---

title: Pillbox
abstract: A pillbox that can be used with a portable electronic device (“PED”) such as a cellular telephone or personal digital assistant includes a generally cubic body portion that is attached to one end of a PED. The body portion defines a compartment within which medication can be placed. Preferably, an extension projects from one wall of the body portion and the extension is connected to the PED. The body portion preferably conforms generally to the contour of the PED. A door is connected to the body portion to permit selective access to the compartment. Other embodiments of the invention include a holster within which the PED can be inserted. In some of the embodiments, the door defines the medication-storage compartment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08322528&OS=08322528&RS=08322528
owner: 
number: 08322528
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080128
---
The present application claims priority from and incorporates by reference U.S. Non provisional application Ser. No. 10 807 683 filed Mar. 24 2004 which claims priority from and incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 457 484 filed Mar. 25 2003.

The present invention was developed partially with government support under a Small Business Innovation Research Program Grant. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to pillboxes and more particularly to a pillbox that can be attached to a portable electronic device such as a cellular telephone or personal digital assistant.

Pillboxes in a wide variety of sizes and shapes have been known for many years. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 372 445 4 640 560 5 740 938 and 6 082 544. Unfortunately as shown by the referenced patents pillboxes often are large cumbersome objects that are difficult to transport conveniently.

Recently portable electronic devices such as cellular telephones and personal digital assistants have become widely available. For convenience any such device will be referred to herein as a PED. PED s purposefully are compact and portable and usually are carried by their owners at all times. However PED s are used only for such purposes as aural communication mathematical calculations and so forth. While the device shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6 107 911 discloses a self contained programmable time interval alarm for medication administration the device is large and unwieldy. More specifically the device employs a housing that employs a clamp with two jaws to accommodate the neck of a medication container. Desirably a pillbox would be available that could be attached to a PED and carried therewith. Any such pillbox hopefully would be compact inexpensive and readily usable.

In response to the foregoing concerns the present invention provides a new and improved pillbox that can be attached to and carried with a PED. In one embodiment the invention comprises a generally cubic body portion that is attached to one end of a PED. The body portion defines a compartment within which medication such as pills can be disposed. It is expected that the compartment will have rounded inside corners that will make removing pills easy and which will prevent pills from getting stuck in the corners. Preferably an extension projects from one wall of the body portion and the extension is connected to the PED. The body portion preferably conforms generally to the shape of the PED. A door is connected to the body portion to permit selective access to the compartment.

Other embodiments of the invention include a holster within which the PED can be inserted. Various forms of a medication holding compartment are provided. For example the body portion in some embodiments has a generally flat wall. A door defines a medication holding compartment. The door interacts with the wall to selectively open and close the compartment. In all of the embodiments it is expected that the pillbox according to the invention will be compact readily usable and capable of being manufactured quickly and inexpensively preferably in a plastics molding operation.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring to a pillbox according to the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The pillbox can be used with a PED . Suitable PED s include Samsung Model SPH i300 Samsung Model SPH i500 Kyocera Model 7135 Palm One Tungsten E Palm One Tungsten W and numerous others. It is possible that the pillbox could be manufactured as part of the PED although it is more likely that the pillbox will be manufactured separately from the PED and used as an aftermarket attachment.

The pillbox includes a body portion that fits on the top of the PED . The body portion includes a top wall a bottom wall opposing side walls and a rear wall . The interior surfaces of the walls define a cavity or compartment within which medication such as pills or capsules can be placed. As used herein the terms medication or pills are intended to refer to tablets capsules pellets or any other form of medicine or food such as candy or breath mints that can be ingested by a human being. The intersections of the walls are rounded particularly at the corners in order to prevent pills from becoming wedged or otherwise stuck in the compartment .

A door is connected to the forward edge of the bottom wall by a hinge indicated at . The door completely covers the front of the compartment when the door is in the closed position as indicated in .

A connection between the body portion and the PED is provided. The connection includes a pair of loops that extend laterally from the bottom wall near the intersection with the side walls . The loop fits about an antenna included as part of the PED while the loop fits about a stylus included as part of the PED . A generally rectangular extension projects from the bottom of the rear wall . The extension is connected to the upper rear portion of the PED by means of hook and loop fasteners .

In the illustrated embodiment the body portion and the extension are configured to closely match the shape of the portions of the PED with which they are in contact. It is expected that the pillbox will be manufactured from a plastics material such as ABS or a similar material in a molding operation. It is possible to manufacture the pillbox from a more flexible material that could be molded to the shape of the PED after it has been positioned in place on the PED . While a hook and loop attachment has been described the extension can be adapted to engage slots or protrusions on the rear of the PED if provided. The extension also could be attached by an adhesive layer. It also is possible for the pillbox to be held in place and protected by a wrap around sleeve in a manner similar to commercially available PED s.

The embodiment of the invention illustrated in has a single chambered compartment with a single hinged door . It is possible to provide a multi chambered compartment . For example there could be four compartments with indications for time of day morning noon evening night or seven compartments with indications for each day of the week. If a multi chambered compartment is provided either a single door can be used to close all of the chambers simultaneously or a separate door could be used for each chamber. The hinge can be provided in any of several variations such as integrated hinges or post hinges. The door can be provided with molded impressions for labels or raised lettering for branding the product or for identifying a particular drug or drugs manufacturers or physicians.

The pillbox is intended to provide storage for a daily set of pills and to work in conjunction with alarm software on the PED . Preferably the pillbox is provided with software that reminds the user when to take the medication. The software can be loaded into the PED . If a wireless internet connection is available a physician drug manufacturer or medical supply company can provide the user with reminders and or information about the medication that should be taken by the patient and a schedule for taking the medication.

The body portion is shown as being of a generally cubic shape. The shape of the body portion can be changed to other shapes if desired although it is expected that a cubic shape will be preferred for reasons of appearance and functionality.

Referring now to several alternative embodiments of the invention are illustrated. The alternative embodiments of the invention share various characteristics including the capability to be attached to a PED and the use of a movable door that either exposes a medication storage compartment or which itself forms a medication storage compartment.

The embodiments shown in and are similar to the first described embodiment of because they each have a body portion that defines a compartment within which pills can be disposed a movable door that is connected to the body portion to selectively cover and uncover the compartment and a connection between the body portion and the PED. The embodiments shown in and are similar to each other because each has a body portion attached to a PED a movable door that defines a compartment with one or more chambers within which pills can be disposed and a connection between the door and the body portion. In the description that follows like reference numerals will be used to indicate components that are similar or identical or which perform similar or identical functions.

Turning first to a pillbox is indicated by the reference numeral . The pillbox has a body portion that is similar to the body portion including a top wall a bottom wall side walls and a rear wall . The interior surfaces of the walls define a cavity or compartment within which medication such as pills or capsules can be placed. A door is connected to the forward edges of the sidewalls by tracks indicated at . The tracks permit sliding movement of the door . The door completely covers the front of the compartment when the door is in the closed position as indicated in . A connection between the body portion and the PED is provided. The connection includes spaced prongs that fit into the typical recharging and data ports included as part of the PED . In the illustrated embodiment the body portion and the extension are configured to closely match the shape of the portions of the PED with which they are in contact.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment includes a body portion of generally cubic shape to which an upper door is attached by means of a living hinge. A holster is connected to and projects from the body portion . The holster is of a size and shape to receive a portion of the PED . To that end the holster has a bottom wall against which a bottom wall of the PED is in contact and an upwardly extending side wall that is in contact with a sidewall of the PED . The sidewall is opposite to the body portion and contains the PED therebetween. The connection between the PED and the holster includes flanges and ledges that project from the holster and which engage the PED . The foregoing construction permits the PED to be inserted into the holster and retained in place there.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment is similar to the embodiment of . A holster is connected to and extends from the side walls and the rear wall of the body portion . The holster includes sidewalls that conform generally to the shape of sidewalls of the PED and a rear wall that conforms generally to the shape of a rear wall of the PED . The door defines the front wall of the body portion . A tab projects from the upper end of the rear wall and engages the upper end of the PED . A clip is formed as part of the rear wall . The PED is held in place within the holster by the combined action of the sidewall the rear wall and the tab . The clip enables the holster to be conveniently carried on a user s belt. As can be seen in the clip preferably is integrally formed as part of the rear wall and comprises an elongate member with first and second ends the first end being connected to the rear wall and the second end being movable away from the rear wall to define a space between the second end and the rear wall . The clip is oriented generally parallel with the side walls and the second end of the clip is located closer to the body portion than the first end.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment includes a body portion attached to the PED a movable door that defines a compartment within which pills can be disposed and a connection between the door and the body portion . The body portion includes a generally flat wall that lies in a plane and clips that project from opposing sides of the wall to engage the sides of the PED . The door has a flat surface that stabilizes the PED when it is placed on its back on a flat surface or which can accept an identifying label or molded indicia not shown . The door also has a pair of indents to enable a user to more readily grasp the door . The connection between the door and the body portion is defined by a pair of spaced tracks that are included as part of the wall of the body portion . The door is movable back and forth along the tracks in a plane generally parallel with the plane in which the wall lies.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment includes a body portion attached to the PED a movable door that defines a compartment within which pills can be disposed and a connection between the door and the body portion . One side of the door engages a raised ledge . The door has a depression adjacent the ledge . The body portion includes a generally flat wall that lies in a plane and clips that project from opposing ends of the wall to engage the top and bottom of the PED . As with the door the door has a flat surface for stabilizing the PED or for accepting a label or molded indicia. The connection between the door and the body portion is defined by a hinge not shown that permits pivoting movement of the door out of the plane in which the wall lies. The depression permits the user to grasp and squeeze the door so as to release the edge of the door from the ledge .

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment shown in is similar to the embodiment shown in except that the upper clip is in the form of a loop that fits about an antenna or stylus included as part of the PED .

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment is similar to the embodiment of and includes a body portion attached to the PED a movable door that defines a compartment within which pills can be disposed and a connection between the door and the body portion . The body portion includes a generally flat wall that lies in a plane and clips that project from opposing sides of the wall to engage the sides of the PED . The connection between the door and the body portion is defined by a post included as part of a selected one of the wall or the door and a receptacle for receiving the post that is included as part of the other of the wall or the door . The door is movable relative to the wall by being pivoted about the pin in a plane generally parallel with the plane in which the wall lies. A detent not shown is provided to retain the door in that position shown in until the user desires to open the door .

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is indicated by the reference numeral . The embodiment shown in is similar to the embodiment shown in except that the upper clip is in the form of a loop that fits about an antenna or stylus included as part of the PED .

As will be apparent from the foregoing description the pillbox according to the invention is compact readily usable and capable of being manufactured quickly and inexpensively. The various embodiments of the invention permit the pillbox to be used with a wide variety of PED configurations and provide desirable options for a user.

Although the invention has been described in its preferred form with a certain degree of particularity it will be understood that the present disclosure of the preferred embodiment has been made only by way of example and that various changes may be resorted to without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention as hereinafter claimed. It is intended that the patent shall cover by suitable expression in the appended claims whatever features of patentable novelty exist in the invention disclosed.

