---

title: Location-based emergency information
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for location-based emergency information. A current geographic location of a device is determined. One or more first contact information items based on the determined geographic location are received at the device. The first contact information items include one or more contact information items associated with emergency services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275352&OS=08275352&RS=08275352
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08275352
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080103
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 946 942 titled Location Based Emergency Information filed Jun. 28 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

When a person travels abroad emergencies can occur. For example the person can become injured in an accident be a victim of a crime or lose their travel documents. In such situations having knowledge of contact information for local emergency services or the pertinent consular services can be beneficial.

A person may gather emergency services and consular services information before traveling. However the process of gathering the information can be time consuming especially if the person s itinerary includes stops in multiple countries. Given the many preparations a person often makes before traveling abroad a person may neglect to gather the information entirely. A person may try to rely on local individuals or a phonebook for emergency services or consular services information while abroad but such assistance may not be readily available when an emergency does occur.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of determining a current geographic location of a device and receiving one or more first contact information items based on the determined geographic location where the first contact information items include one or more contact information items associated with emergency services. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus devices and computer program products.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include at a device operable as a phone the actions of receiving user input dialing an emergency phone number determining a geographic location at which the device is located determining whether the dialed emergency phone number is proper for the determined geographic location retrieving a replacement emergency phone number based on the determined geographic location if the dialed emergency phone number is determined to be improper for the determined geographic location and dialing the replacement emergency phone number. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. A device can receive and update location based contact information e.g. emergency phone numbers consular services automatically. A traveler is spared from the task of researching emergency phone numbers for destination countries before traveling. A traveler can have the correct emergency phone numbers readily available when an emergency occurs.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. An example of a multi touch sensitive display technology is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . Each of the display objects can be a graphic representation of a system object. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular device objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations each of the device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke the corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. via Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of particular device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object a settings object and an emergency dialing object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality. Touching the emergency dialing object can for example invoke automatic dialing of an emergency phone number or an emergency dialing environment and supporting functionality. Likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning system e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE 3G e.g. EV DO UMTS HSDPA etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services and and or one or more content publishes over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. A location based service can for example provide data or content based on a current location of the mobile device . One or more other services can also be utilized by the mobile device including a syncing service an activation service and a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates are available for software on the mobile device then downloads the software updates to the mobile device where the updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device can also access other data over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a 3G network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other related processes and functions.

The memory can also store data including but not limited to documents images video files audio files and other data. In some implementations the memory stores address book data which can include contact information e.g. address phone number etc. for one or more persons organizations services or entities.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a positioning system . In various implementations the positioning system can be provided by a separate device coupled to the mobile device or can be provided internal to the mobile device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ positioning technology including a GPS a cellular grid URIs or any other technology for determining the geographic location of a device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ a service provided by a positioning service such as for example SkyHook Wireless of Boston Mass. or Rosum Corporation of Mountain View Calif. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by an accelerometer and a compass using dead reckoning techniques. In such implementations the user can occasionally reset the positioning system by marking the mobile device s presence at a known location e.g. a landmark or intersection . In still other implementations the user can enter a set of position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude for the mobile device. For example the position coordinates can be typed into the phone e.g. using a virtual keyboard or selected by touching a point on a map. Position coordinates can also be acquired from another device e.g. a car navigation system by syncing or linking with the other device. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by using wireless signal strength and one or more locations of known wireless signal sources to provide the current location. Wireless signal sources can include access points and or cellular towers. Other techniques to determine a current location of the mobile device can be used and other configurations of the positioning system are possible.

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

In some implementations the process begins when a current geographic location of the device is determined . The device obtains its current geographic position. In some implementations the device determines its current location using GPS or any other positioning system. In some implementations the current location as determined using GPS can be expressed in latitude longitude. In some implementations the device can optionally convert the latitude longitude of the current location to an address e.g. country city by referencing a database of latitudes longitudes and locations that is stored in the memory .

In some other implementations the device can obtain its geographic position using other methods. For example a device can obtain its position using cellular phone tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning a combination of GPS and other signals differential GPS identification of location using the Internet Protocol IP address and any other suitable technologies and techniques.

After the location is obtained one or more items of contact information are received based on the determined geographic location . The items can include an address and or phone number and an indication of the person organization service or entity with which the address phone number are associated. In some implementations the device receives contact information items from a location based service . The device sends its determined geographic location to the location based service . For devices using GPS receivers the device can send a latitude longitude or an address e.g. city and country to the location based service . In an example implementation device sends the determined location information by sending a request to retrieve information at a Universal Resource Locator URL associated with the location based service with the latitude longitude or the address as a parameter in the request. In another example implementation the device sends the determined location by sending a text of the latitude longitude or the address e.g. in a SMS message to the location based service.

The location based service receives the determined geographic location from the device . If the device sent a latitude longitude the location based service can convert the latitude longitude to an address. The location based service identifies e.g. in its database one or more items of contact information associated with the location indicated by the latitude longitude or address and transmits the identified items to the device . In some implementations the device stores the items in memory e.g. in address book data .

In some implementations the contact information items include phone numbers for emergency services or emergency phone numbers . The location based service can include data regarding emergency phone numbers for locations around the world. It is well known that different countries can have different phone numbers for contacting emergency services. For example the emergency phone number is 911 in the United States 112 in the European Union 999 or 112 in the United Kingdom and so forth. Further some countries have different phone numbers for different emergency services e.g. in Israel the emergency phone number is 100 for the police 101 for medical emergencies and 102 for fire emergencies while other countries have a unified phone number for multiple emergency services e.g. 911 in the United States for police medical emergencies and fire emergencies . When the location based service receives location information from the device the location based service identifies one or more emergency phone numbers based on the received location information. For example if the location information e.g. latitude longitude city and country sent by the device indicates the United States the location based service identifies the 911 emergency phone number and sends it to the device . If the device is relocated to Israel e.g. the user of the device flies to Israel and carries the device with them and the location information e.g. latitude longitude city and country sent by the device indicates Israel the location based service identifies the 100 101 and 102 emergency phone numbers and sends them to the device .

In some implementations the contact information items include contact information for an embassy or consulate providing consular services. The device can include a user interface where a user of the device can specify a home country of the device in a pull down selection menu object for example. For example if the use of the device lives in France and uses the device primarily in France the user can specify France as the home country of the device. The home country of the device can be included in the request to the location based service as an additional parameter. The location based service can identify the contact information of an embassy or consulate of the home country of the device that is nearest to the location of the device. The location based service transmits the embassy consulate contact information to the device . In some implementations the home country of the device can be derived from user information stored at any of the services or . For example the user of the device can have a user account with and stored at the media service . The user account includes user information such as the user s country. The device can set the home country to be the user s country from the user account.

Thus for example if the home country of a device is set to France and the device is determined to be located in San Jose Calif. the location based service can send the contact information for the French consulate in San Francisco Calif. which is the French consulate that is nearest to the location San Jose Calif. of the device. If the same device is relocated to Minneapolis Minn. e.g. because the user of the device carried the device to Minneapolis Minn. while traveling the location based service can send the contact information for the French consulate in Chicago Ill. which is the French consulate that is nearest to the new location Minneapolis Minn. of the device.

In some implementations the contact information items include other types of location based contact information. For example the contact information can include contact information for governmental services for the determined geographic location e.g. non emergency police services or other law enforcement agencies poison control animal control hazardous material cleanup weather services park rangers etc. contact information for public utilities e.g. gas electricity water garbage telephony etc. and so forth.

In some implementations if the home country of the device matches the current location of the device e.g. the home country is the U.S. and the device is determined to be located in the U.S. then whatever consular information that was previously received from a location based service can be removed from the device and the location based service can omit contact information for consular services from the contact information items transmitted to the device .

It should be appreciated that the examples of location based contact information items described above emergency phone numbers consular services are merely exemplary. Other types of contact information can be included.

In some implementations the device is operable to download emergency contact information from a specific network location. For example an enterprise can store emergency contact information for its employees at a network location. The device can be configured to download the emergency contact information from the network location according to a schedule or by manual intervention.

In some implementations the emergency information includes default emergency information and override emergency information for particular locations e.g. the campus or complex of a university company or government entity . For example the default emergency number for the United States is 911 but the emergency information can include a number for campus security at a university campus and if the device is located at the university campus the campus security number overrides the default and is dialed instead of the default or the user can choose which one to dial.

In some implementations the device stores the received contact information items in address book data . illustrates an example data structure for address book data . The data structure includes a one or more item entries . In some implementations each item entry includes an item name or identifier one or more addresses one or more telephone numbers one or more optional images or photographs one or more email addresses and or one or more fields with miscellaneous information about the item. The data structure can store contact information items received from the location based service . For example entry A includes the emergency phone number for Country A and entry B includes the address and phone number for the Unites States consulate at City X in Country A. The user can view the received contact information by accessing an address book application on the device .

In some implementations the entries for storing the contact information items received from the location based service can be edited manipulated and deleted by a user of the device as with other entries in the data structure . In some other implementations the entries for storing the contact information items received from the location based service are special or system entries within the data structure the user of the device cannot edit or delete them. In some implementations the data structure includes an additional field e.g. a special field in which a flag is set or not set with a set flag being an indication that the entry is special for indicating whether an entry is a special entry or not.

In some implementations the user can also designate one or more entries in the data structure as the designated contact information to use in case of emergency ICE . For example a user can store the contact information for their spouse in the data structure and designate the spouse as the contact person in case of an emergency by designating the spouse s entry as the ICE contact information. The data structure can include an ICE field with a flag that is set or not set with a set flag indicating that the entry is an ICE entry. For example the ICE flag for entry C is set John Smith is designated as the ICE contact. The data structure can have zero one or more entries designated as ICE contacts.

In some implementations when the user dials an emergency phone number from the device by selecting an emergency dialing object as described below or by manually entering the digits of an emergency phone number for example the device can automatically contact the designated ICE contact as well. The device can automatically send an email message to the ICE contact dial the phone number of the ICE contact or send a SMS message to the ICE contact for example. In some implementations the user can pre compose a voice or text message and store the message in the device . When the device attempts to contact the ICE contact automatically the device can forward the pre composed message to the ICE contact e.g. playing back a pre composed voice message while calling the ICE contact sending the ICE contact a pre composed message in an email or a SMS message .

In some implementations if there are multiple ICE contacts in the data structure there can be a hierarchy or some other order for contacting the ICE contacts. For example the ICE contacts can be contacted in alphabetical order by last name.

In some implementations when the location of the device has changed and the contact information items for the new location are different than that for the former location the data structure is updated to include entries with contact information for the new location. For example the device can delete the entries with contact information for the former location from the data structure and insert entries for contact information for the new location into the data structure . As another example the device can edit the entries that included the contact information for the former location to include instead the contact information for the new location. In some other implementations the entries for the former location can be hidden from display but remain stored in the data structure and or cached rather than deleted. When the device re enters the former location and network connectivity is unavailable the device can displayed the hidden or cached entries for the former location.

In some implementations the device can during a scheduled update of the emergency information download emergency information for multiple countries. The information for countries in which the device is not currently located is hidden from display. When the device becomes located in another country for which the information had been downloaded that information can displayed. This can be used to ensure that information is available despite loss of network connectivity.

In some implementations if the received contact information items include one or more emergency phone numbers the emergency phone number s can be associated with one or more display objects or . For example if the device is located in the United States and the received contact information includes the unified emergency phone number 911 the phone number 911 can be associated with a display object e.g. emergency dialing object which can be displayed in the top level user interface in a dialing keypad user interface and other user interfaces of the device . When the user selects the display object associated with the emergency phone number the device automatically initiates dialing of the phone number 911. In some implementations the emergency dialing object can show the emergency number associated with the object e.g. 911 while the device is located in the United States as shown in . In an example implementation the emergency dialing object first displays an icon as shown in as shown in then displays the phone number associated with the object as shown in . The object can go back and forth between displaying the icon and displaying the emergency phone number.

If the contact information includes multiple emergency phone numbers one for each of a plurality of services the device associates the multiple emergency phone numbers with one or more display objects or . In some implementations a separate display object or is associated with each of the emergency phone numbers. For example if the device is located in Israel and the received contact information includes 100 for the police 101 for medical emergencies and 102 for fire emergencies each of these phone numbers is associated with a separate display object and selection of any of these display objects initiates automatic dialing of the associated emergency phone number.

In some other implementations the multiple emergency phone numbers are associated with one display object e.g. emergency dialing object . When the user of the device selects the display object a menu or additional display objects e.g. a drawer object that slides out from the emergency dialing object indicating the multiple emergency phone numbers and or the corresponding emergency service is displayed when the user selects the emergency dialing object . The user can select one of the multiple emergency phone numbers services from the menu to initiate dialing of the corresponding emergency phone number. The object can be displayed in the top level user interface the dialing keypad user interface or other interfaces of the device .

Other ways of dialing a phone number associated with any of the received contact information items are possible. For example the user can access the address book e.g. by selecting the address book object finding the phone number in the address book and selecting the phone number in the address book to initiate dialing.

The display object s associated with the emergency phone number s can be displayed on any of the user interfaces of the device including but not limited to a top level user interface and a phone dialing or phone call management interface.

In some implementations to maintain the freshness of the location based contact information items e.g. the emergency phone number etc. stored in the device the device can perform the process whenever particular events occur. In some implementations the device performs the process when the radio frequency transmitter receiver of the device is activated. For example the transmitter can be activated when the device is powered on or when the device goes from flight mode to normal operation. In some implementations the process is performed upon manual intervention by the user and or periodically according to a schedule. For example the device can include a user selectable command to force an update of the contact information items received from the location based service .

In some implementations the process can be performed when the user tries to dial an emergency phone number by selecting a display object associated with an emergency phone number e.g. emergency dialing object or by manually entering the numbers. For example when the user selects the emergency dialing object to initiate dialing of the associated emergency phone number the device before dialing the associated emergency phone number can perform process to update the associated emergency phone number and then dial the updated emergency phone number. As another example if the user tries to dial a number that is well known as an emergency phone number e.g. 911 112 the device can perform the process to receive the emergency phone number for the current location and dial the received emergency phone number if the number originally dialed by the user is not the correct number for the determined geographic location.

In some implementations if the user calls e.g. by manual entering of digits selection from an address book selecting a dialing object etc. an emergency phone number or a phone number for consular services for example the device can automatically invoke a map functionality and display a map showing the current location of the device and presumably of the user and nearby physical locations associated with the called emergency services or consular services. For example if the user called a phone number for a consulate the device can display a map showing the current location of the device the location of the consulate the user is calling and optionally a route from the current location to the consulate. As another example if the user called 911 the device can display a map showing the current location of the device locations of the nearest emergency services e.g. police station hospital and or fire department and optionally a route to the emergency services. If the user called an emergency number associated with a specific emergency service e.g. medical services the device can display a map with the current device location the nearest location for the specific emergency service e.g. nearest hospital and optionally a route to the specific emergency service. In some implementations the device can further transmit the current location of the device to for example the called emergency service. Further in some implementations the device displays on the display the address for the current position of the device . The user while on a call can read out the displayed address to another party on the call. The address can also be emailed or sent in a text message to a contact.

The disclosed and other embodiments and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The disclosed and other embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the disclosed embodiments can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The disclosed embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of what is disclosed here or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what being claims or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understand as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

