---

title: Method for controlling energy resources
abstract: A system and method for managing power consumption and storage in a power grid. Measurements are received from a plurality of geographically distributed energy management controllers. Each energy management controllers has energy storage units with stored energy. The measurements comprise the energy production and storage capacity of the energy management controllers and their associated energy storage units. The measurements are processed, e.g., aggregated, and displayed on a graphical user interface. Commands are transmitted to a first subset of the energy management controllers to command the units to discharge their stored energy into a power grid through an inverter. Commands are transmitted to a second subset of the plurality of energy management controllers to store energy in each unit's energy storage unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855829&OS=08855829&RS=08855829
owner: GridPoint, Inc.
number: 08855829
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080103
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 878 072 entitled Utility Console For Controlling Aggregated Energy Resources filed Jan. 3 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application includes material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to energy management and more particularly to a system and method for controlling energy resources such as distributed energy storage units optionally coupled to renewable energy sources such as solar panels.

There has been an increasing emphasis in recent years on energy conservation. Electric utilities have also come under increasing pressure to reduce the need to fire up polluting power plants to serve peak demands such as during hot summer days. Electric utilities also have an incentive to smooth out energy demand to minimize the need to install new power lines across limited real estate.

Two ways in which utilities can perform these tasks are referred to as demand side management and supply side management. Demand side management refers to the selective reduction of energy demand in response to peak loading conditions. For example utilities have for years installed devices in the homes of participating consumers that under utility control selectively disable energy consuming devices e.g. hot water heaters or air conditioning units in response to peak loading conditions. As another example utilities are able in certain cases to remotely activate energy supplies to increase the supply of electricity to parts of the electricity grid.

It would be advantageous to provide more sophisticated control mechanisms to permit electric utilities and others to effectively monitor and control distributed energy resources such as storage units capable of storing electricity and reselling it to the grid on command. It would also be advantageous to provide more sophisticated demand side management tasks using aggregated resources.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a system and method wherein measurements are received from a plurality of geographically distributed energy management controllers. Each energy management controller has energy storage units with stored energy. The measurements comprise the energy production and storage capacity of the energy management controllers and their associated energy storage units. The measurements are processed and displayed. Such processing may include e.g. aggregation. Commands are transmitted to a first subset of the energy management controllers to command the units to discharge their stored energy into a power grid through an inverter. Commands are transmitted to a second subset of the plurality of energy management controllers to store energy in each unit s energy storage unit.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a system and method. Measurements are received from a plurality of geographically distributed energy management controllers. At least one of the energy management controllers is coupled to at least one load management device capable of curtailing load to at least one power consuming device. The measurements comprise actual electrical load reflecting consumption attributable to at least one power consuming device. The measurements are processed by e.g. aggregating the measurements. Commands are transmitted to the energy management controller to cause the controller use the load management controller to curtail the load of the at least one power consuming device.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a system and method. Measurements are received from an energy management controller at a consumer location. The measurements comprise actual electrical load reflecting consumption attributable to the at least one power consuming device. Additional information is received from a consumer at the consumer location reflecting changes in energy uses. Measurements are fed as inputs into rules and based upon the results of processing those rules energy consumption production needs are recalculated and actions are suggested or automatically taken to reduce increase load increase decrease energy storage or activate deactivate power generation at the consumer site.

The present invention is described below with reference to block diagrams and operational illustrations of methods and devices to manage power generation consumption and storage. It is understood that each block of the block diagrams or operational illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams or operational illustrations can be implemented by means of analog or digital hardware and computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions can be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer ASIC or other programmable data processing apparatus such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implements the functions acts specified in the block diagrams or operational block or blocks.

In some alternate implementations the functions acts noted in the blocks can occur out of the order noted in the operational illustrations. For example two blocks shown in succession can in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks can sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

For the purposes of this disclosure the term server should be understood to refer to hardware and or software which provides processing database and communication facilities. By way of example and not limitation the term server can refer to a single physical processor with associated communications and data storage and database facilities or it can refer to a networked or clustered complex of processors and associated network and storage devices as well as operating software and one or more database systems and applications software which support the services provided by the server.

For the purposes of this disclosure the term utility should be understood to refer to an entity that provides or manages the supply of electrical power to one or more energy consumers. The term as used in this disclosure encompasses without limitation regional utility companies regional transmission organizations and any other load servicing entities or entities which manage the power grid within a geographical area. Energy consumers may be any entity that use electrical power for any purpose such as without limitation individual home owners commercial office buildings or manufacturing operations.

For the purposes of this disclosure the term energy management controller should be understood to refer to any device which measures and controls the operation of power generating power consuming or power storage devices or which measures and controls power supplied to one or more electrical circuits. Power generating devices may include without limitation renewable energy sources such as solar panels or may include conventional generators powered by fossil fuels. Power consuming devices may include without limitation household appliances such as refrigerators and stoves climate control systems such as heating and air conditioning and commercial or manufacturing devices such as an automated assembly line. Power storage devices may include without limitation battery systems and capacitors.

Energy management controllers may be capable of being connected to one or more networks such as the Internet a private WAN or a cellular communication network. Such network connected controllers may be capable of transmitting measurements made by the controllers to remote locations. Network connected controllers may be further capable of receiving commands from remote locations which control or modify the operation of the controllers

For the purposes of this disclosure the term power control appliance should be understood to refer to an energy management controller which is capable of managing substantially all electrical power generation consumption and storage by power generating power consuming and power storage devices within an area of control. The power control appliance may a be a processor with associated communications data storage and database facilities one or more display device which may support a graphical user interface as well as operating software and one or more database systems and applications software which support the services provided by the appliance. An area of a control of a power appliance may be without limitation a single home or factory a group of homes or factories or a commercial building.

For the purposes of this disclosure the term utility console and utility control console should be understood to refer to one or more servers and associated applications software which implements a graphical user interface that allows a utility to manage power consumption generation and storage within one or more areas of control. The utility console may provide for software and hardware interfaces that allow the utility console to communicate with and control one or more energy management controllers within the utility s areas of control.

For the purposes of this disclosure a computer readable medium stores computer data in machine readable form. By way of example and not limitation a computer readable medium can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

For the purposes of this disclosure a module is a software hardware or firmware or combinations thereof system process or functionality or component thereof that performs or facilitates the processes features and or functions described herein with or without human interaction or augmentation . A module can include sub modules.

Reference will now be made in detail to illustrative embodiments of the present invention examples of which are shown in the accompanying drawings.

In one embodiment the disclosed system and method is directed to a utility console that enables a utility to monitor and aggregate potential electrical energy stored in a plurality of geographically dispersed devices such as batteries and capacitors. Commands from the utility console may be transmitted to the plurality of geographically dispersed energy management controllers causing them to transmit power through inverters to a power grid creating a virtual power plant. The utility console may also monitor actual demand through circuits at geographically dispersed locations aggregate the demand and issue commands to curtail loads to reduce the aggregated demand.

The servers are connected to the local network of the operations control center. The local network is connected to the Internet though conventional routers and or firewalls . The local network may also be connected to a common carrier wireless network such as a CDMA network. The local network is also connected to a wide area network which is connected to one or more power generation points .

The power generation point is connected to the operations control center through the wide area network and is connected to consumers though power transmission lines . The power transmission lines additionally support transmission of data between the power generation point and power consumers . Thus the servers may receive data from or transmit data or commands to distributed energy management controllers using the Internet the wireless network or the WAN .

Power consumers under the management of the utility control center have one or more power control appliances . Power is transmitted to the consumer over transmission lines which form part of the local power grid. Power the consumer draws from the grid may be supplied in part by one or more power generation points or may originate in remote locations not shown . Power enters the consumer premises at a meter and is routed to the power control appliance which may comprise an onboard computer energy storage and an inverter charger.

The power control appliance may be configured to control one or more electrical circuits which supply power to one or more power consuming devices such as household appliances. In one embodiment the system uses a number of load controllers with integrated measurement and or a communicating thermostat not shown . Load controllers with integrated measurement can be installed by placing them inline with the circuit to be measured and controlled and are usually installed near the main load panel though there is no requirement to do so . Any number of load controllers with integrated measurement may be installed at a site. The communicating thermostat can be a replacement for an existing thermostat and can work with nearly any HVAC system. HVAC curtailment can be achieved either by interrupting power to the compressor or by communicating with the thermostat to adjust the temperature setpoint or to turn the HVAC system off. The power control appliance may additionally have control connections not shown to the power consuming devices which allow the power control appliance to control the operation of the devices.

The power control appliance may be further connected to one or more power generation devices such as solar panels which are capable of generating power. Power generated by the power generation devices may is routed to the power control appliance for use by the consumer. Under the control of the power control appliance power generated by the power generation devices may also be routed in whole or in part to the power grid .

The power control appliance may be controlled at least in part by the consumer using a graphical user interface displayed on a display device . The power control appliance may be further controlled remotely by the utility control center . In one embodiment the servers at the utility control center may receive and transmit data and commands to the power appliance using the Internet the wireless network or the WAN via power lines from the power generation point. 

Examples of power control appliances which may be used in embodiments of the present system are described in detail in U.S. Patent Application 2006 0158037 entitled Fully Integrated Power Storage and Supply Appliance with Power uploading Capability and U.S. Pat. No. 7 274 975 entitled Optimized Energy Management System both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

It is understood that the system and network illustrated in is not limited to the control of power consumption generation and storage exclusively at consumer sites . The system may manage any resource under the control of an energy management controller connected to the utility control center through a network connection. For example there may be grid connected energy storage units such as capacitor banks which are owned and operated by the utility expressly for grid management purposes. The system may measure and control such resources for example using facilities provided by a utility console provided by software implemented on the servers .

The load measurement and control circuits can measure energy usage and report it to the energy management controller unit which may in turn report it to an operations center which in turn reports it to a utility control console located at the utility s facility. In one embodiment electric utility is enabled to have a real time snapshot of actual storage capacity at the distributed energy management control units and the current loads operating across all the premises in which such geographically dispersed energy management control units are located.

In one embodiment the electric utility can issue commands to the energy management control units through a smart meter which receives commands through the transmission lines the Internet or other communication mechanism as described above. The utility may additionally gather data on energy usage and conservation from energy management control units and implement a monitoring and conservation website hosted for example on control center servers to allow consumers to monitor their energy usage and conservation patterns.

A user interface module displays data processed by the data processing module on a display device connected to the server and allows end users to control functions provided by the utility control console modules using a graphical user interface supported by the display device. A discharge control module transmits commands to energy management controllers which when appropriate instruct controllers to discharge stored energy for example into a power grid through an inverter. A charge control module transmits commands to energy management controllers which when appropriate instruct the controllers to charge energy storage devices controlled by the controllers. A curtailment control module transmits commands to energy management controllers which when appropriate instruct to curtail the load of devices or circuits controlled by the controllers. An application programming interface API enables the utility to use their own forecasting algorithms instead of the system s. A generation control module transmits commands to energy management controllers which when appropriate instruct the controllers to activate and deactivate generation sources controlled by the controller.

Detailed charts are displayed for stored energy and dispatchable power . Detailed charts are also displayed for power consumed by curtailable loads in the case of the illustrated embodiment water heaters pool pumps and HVACs . The charts graphically displays in real time immediate demand reduction potential available across a population of devices that are dispersed throughout the region that may be controlled from the console or a related computer. Demand reduction potential can be displayed based on category of demand reduction such that the amount of potential demand reduction available from a certain category of devices e.g. hot water heaters is displayed and controllable separately from a different category of devices e.g. pool pumps or air conditioners . The utility console may additionally provide the ability to monitor and manage performance across a service territory the individual performance of a single unit or the collective performance of a subset of units in the service territory e.g. all units served by a given substation .

The area to the right of vertical line in detailed charts represents load forecasts which are calculated by the system. Such forecasts are made using algorithms which may incorporate historical data such as measured energy usage for specific classes of loads and exogenous data such as predicted weather data.

In one embodiment the electrical capacity displayed by the interface reflects actual storage in batteries in devices located in homes and or businesses and coupled to the electrical grid. Such capacity may take into account the depth of discharge of individual batteries such that batteries are not discharged beyond a certain limit e.g. 80 . The immediate capacity may alternatively reflect the aggregated actual output supply of distributed energy resources such as solar panels that are associated with and coupled to the devices.

Charts may be customized using chart tools . The user may select the dashboard using a button or may switch to an event page or a report page using buttons and respectively. Utilities are thus enabled to isolate data and control appliances by region or defined groups. Filtering enables utilities to provide a direct impact to where power quality issues reside. Reports provided by the utility console application may include reports based on data captured by the appliances in the field. Reports may be filtered by groups or other criteria deemed required. One embodiment of these reports may compare the actual performance of an event versus the user s expectations.

In one embodiment devices within the region such as dispatchable power sources and curtailable loads are managed by creating events. Events may include demand response DR events charge battery events and charge energy storage events. The interface in . provides an event creation bar . The type of event may be selected as well as a start and end date a start time and end time and a duration for the event. After the details of the event are selected the create event button is selected. When the event is successfully created a confirmation page such as that shown in may be displayed which may graphically display the expected load reduction.

Events may be generated for example to cause portions of the aggregated electrical storage and or energy resources to be coupled to the electrical grid e.g. through inverters thus increasing supply to the grid. The console may be used for example to dispatch stored energy from batteries or distributed generation sources wind solar generators fuel cells etc. or a combination of both. When events are dispatched commands may be transmitted to devices at the customer s premises to turn them on off or increase decrease the settings e.g. adjusting the temperature setting of a thermostat . Commands can be transmitted by structured messages e.g. Internet messages sent via a reliable delivery protocol such as IP or TCP so that communications are not materially disrupted due to ambient noise on communication channels e.g. power lines .

Demand response events may take one of three forms curtailment dispatch discharging synchronous reserves or a combination of both curtailment and dispatch. Utilities may schedule battery charge events to maintain synchronous reserves levels and ensure charging occurs during the most optimal time periods. Utilities may schedule energy storage charge events to maintain synchronous reserves levels and ensure charging occurs during the most optimal time periods. The event creation bar further provides an estimate button which may estimate the effect of an event before it is dispatched.

Events may be scheduled in advance. For example a control center operator may decide that a demand response event is needed for the following day and will schedule such an event. The system can then automatically notify customers using their preferred notification mechanism email text message etc. and then send an execution schedule to all the customer sites. Each site replies with an acknowledgement of receipt of the schedule and the console can report with a high degree of confidence how much load can be expected to be shed and energy dispatched based upon the acknowledgement from each site as well as an aggregated estimate of the size of the expected reduction based upon historical measurements. At the scheduled time energy management controllers at the sites will execute the curtailment and dispatch commands record the performance and then report back to the utility console. In certain embodiments energy dispatches can be scheduled to occur at a future time when demand is anticipated to be higher. During off peak periods batteries or other energy storage units can be recharged from the grid solar panels or other sources.

Events may also be generated on demand for immediate execution as the need arises. The speed at which these events can be executed is a function of the latency of the communications network. With broadband Ethernet or a typical two way communications via meters for example the event can be executed less than five minutes from the control center operator issuing the command.

In some embodiments a system incorporating the invention may utilize the real time measurements of the loads in iterative predictions of an event s performance while the event is underway. In the event a revised prediction indicates that the goal of that event is not expected to be achieved or achieved more effectively the system may suggest alternatives to reaching that goal or may react automatically based upon previously defined constraints or rules to attempt to reach the goal.

The system may further provide a DR event suggestion function. The end user at a utility could be enabled to enter a query such as Show me 10 MW on this Day at this Start Time and query event options presented to them for selection. The control center console may generate suggestions which are based in part upon previously defined rules and constraints and may include both the cost and the benefit of the various scenarios presenting the optimal scenarios to the user. Cost may be in terms of dollars reliability greenhouse gasses or any other metric the utility may deem a cost.

In one embodiment the capacity of electrical storage displayed by the utility console may be immediate in that it reflects the actual measured output of a currently producing asset such as a solar panel which can be diverted to the grid e.g. a solar panel that is presently charging batteries in a home can be diverted to produce electricity for the grid. It can also be immediate in the sense that a particular homeowner or business owner can by altering mode settings on their power control appliance alter the availability of production.

For example a homeowner who wants to ensure that his or her batteries are fully charged before offering any excess capacity to the grid can select a mode that prevents diversion until such charging has been completed. The utility console may reflect this fact by not showing capacity for such units until a future time for example an estimated time after which the batteries would be fully charged. If the consumer changes a mode setting that potential capacity can be promptly reflected on the console. A homeowner may also prevent the system from reducing the thermostat beyond a certain point if a certain mode has been selected.

In one embodiment a utility can offer cost savings to individual customers based on mode selection settings made by the customer. For example a customer that has selected the most aggressive form of demand management e.g. temporarily shutting down the maximum number of devices could be offered a discount or cost reduction on utility bills to compensate for the potential inconvenience of disabling certain devices. Similar discounts or rebates can be offered in exchange for diverting stored energy e.g. from batteries or passive e.g. solar cells or active e.g. generators associated with an individual device back to the grid.

Events may also be generated for example to satisfy electrical demands while minimizing the greenhouse gasses produced by the devices that satisfy that demand. A utility may place a higher priority on limiting greenhouse gas emissions than on cost and subsequently will create and manage DR events in order to minimize their greenhouse gas production. For example the utility may create rules for the invention which instruct it to display event recommendations based primarily on the amount of greenhouse gas the event would produce.

After a DR event has been completed the measured performance can be reported to the utility or other user. The report can present the data in groups such as the aggregate performance of all units by the substation serving them. In certain variations the utility console can constantly measure and record a load profile for each circuit providing an accurate baseline that is specific to a particular customer. This enables a utility to offer a DR program that is equitable to all participants compensating them for the load they actually reduced as opposed to using a statistical sampling.

In one embodiment the utility console may display the cost of various demand side management scenarios with costs in terms of money environmental impact greenhouse gasses etc. to the utility such that the utility can see how much it would cost to activate various demand reduction scenarios. For example by shutting off all pool pumps that are currently activated a certain amount of demand reduction would be achieved and the utility could be charged a fee of a certain amount. By shutting off all water heaters that are currently activated the utility could achieve a different level of demand reduction and might be charged a potentially different fee. These costs can be traded off against the costs of firing up additional power plants or other parameters.

In one embodiment the system may further implement multiple sets of rules and constraints which govern how the various resources e.g. energy storage load control distributed renewable energy resources etc. may be used. For example there may be a constraint that energy storage units must reserve 50 of their total capacity for usage by the utility s customer as backup power. Such constraints and rules may apply to a single unit a collection of units or the entire population of units. In another example the control center operator may specify the rate of discharge of energy storage units. Units discharging at 50 of capacity can dispatch for twice as long as units dispatching at 100 . The control center operator can choose the dispatch profile the best suits the need at hand.

In another embodiment the system may further implement multiple sets of rules and constraints which govern how the combination of various resources e.g. energy storage plus load control may be used. For example if a utility desires to reduce its current load by 50 megawatts the system may process rules which indicate an optimal solution can be achieved via 30 megawatts of power through dispatching energy storage and 20 megawatts through load curtailment.

In an even more complex example a rule set may dictate that if the price of power is less than 200 per megawatt day batteries may discharge up to 50 of their capacity in a single cycle if the price of power is greater than 200 per megawatt day but less than 400 per megawatt day batteries may discharge up to 65 of their available capacity in a single cycle and if the price of power is greater than 400 per megawatt day batteries may discharge up to 80 of their capacity in a single cycle. The system may then calculate and display the amount of available energy storage capacity based upon the current or expected price of power.

By implementing peak load reduction and energy shaping the system may reduce incremental transmission and distribution investments. For example the system may help relieve localized transmission and distribution issues by identifying an overstressed substation or feeder line. Deploying units to 5 of the affected areas may substantially increase reliability of the network. By controlling which loads reconnect to the grid the utility can stagger the reconnecting loads after brief and extended outages to assist with outage recovery management. In addition units with energy storage capacity can be instructed to discharge immediately after reconnecting to the grid to lessen the impact of loads reconnecting.

The data collected by the utility console may be used to provide consumers with on demand information regarding the consumer s energy uses. shows one embodiment for a web based user interface that permits individual customers to monitor electrical consumption savings and associated environmental impact. Access to the website can be limited to customers having power control appliances. Statistics can be compiled and presented using a web accessible format as illustrated in .

Combining power control appliances with a utility control console enables the provision of value added services in addition demand side management. Such services may include backup power for example using the stored energy utilities can sell consumers clean maintenance free backup power service energy management utilities can offer customers energy conservation services to reduce electricity cost while fulfilling the utility s energy shaping requirements benefits within time of use pricing schedules. In certain embodiments consumers can expect 10 15 energy cost savings by controlling major consumption items HVAC water heaters pool pumps etc. Additionally the utility can provide its customers with detailed consumption information and translate conservation activities into tangible environmental benefits.

While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

