---

title: System for collimating backlight
abstract: A collimating device and a transflector for use in a system having a backlight is disclosed herein. In one embodiment of the application, the collimating device and the transflector each include an immersing layer, a reflecting layer, and an optical element layer formed from a plurality of three-dimensional, optical elements. Each optical element is tapered such that a small area end has a horizontal plane cross-sectional area that is less than that of a wide area end. The optical elements of the collimating device are tapered towards the backlight and the optical elements of the transflector are tapered away from the backlight. The reflecting layer has apertures which correspond to the position and shape of the light input ends of the optical elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07573642&OS=07573642&RS=07573642
owner: Brilliant Film LLC
number: 07573642
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080226
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 194 360 filed on Aug. 1 2005. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 194 360 is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 108 296 filed on Mar. 26 2002 and a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 688 785 filed on Oct. 17 2003. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 194 360 also claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 600 272 filed on Aug. 10 2004.

The present application relates to both 1 transflective structures and 2 light collimating or funneling structures. In particular the present application relates to both 1 transflective films and 2 light collimating or funneling films.

Light collimating films sometimes known as light control films are known in the art. Such films typically have opaque plastic louvers lying between strips of clear plastic. U.S. Pat. No. Re 27 617 teaches a process of making such a louvered light collimating film by skiving a billet of alternating layers of plastic having relatively low and relatively high optical densities. After skiving the high optical density layers provide light collimating louver elements which as illustrated in the patent may extend orthogonally to the surface of the resulting louvered plastic film. U.S. Pat. No. 3 707 416 discloses a process whereby the louver elements may be canted with respect to the surface of the light collimating film. U.S. Pat. No. 3 919 559 teaches a process for attaining a gradual change in the angle of cant of successive louver elements.

Such light collimating films have many uses. U.S. Pat. No. 3 791 722 teaches the use of such films in lenses for goggles to be worn where high levels of illumination or glare are encountered. Such films also may be used to cover a backlit instrument panel such as the dashboard of a car to prevent undesired reflections in locations such as the windshield or a backlit electronic device e.g. a LCD computer screen or LCD TV .

U.S. Pat. No. 5 204 160 discloses light collimating films that are formed from a plastic film with a series of grooves formed therein. The grooves are filled with a light absorbing material or the sides and bottoms of the grooves may be painted with a light absorbing ink.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples and or forms of components that fall within the scope of a term and that may be used for implementation. The examples are not intended to be limiting. Both singular and plural forms of terms may be within the definitions.

 Horizontal plane cross section as used herein refers to a cross section taken along a plane perpendicular to the direction of the element.

 Tapered as used herein refers to a narrowing along either a linear or curved line in the vertical plane cross section direction such that horizontal plane cross sections taken at different locations will have different areas. In other words a tapered object will have a small area end and a large area end.

 Vertical plane cross section as used herein refers to a cross section taken along a plane parallel to the direction of the element.

The present application relates to both 1 transflective structures and 2 light collimating or funneling structures. Funneling is essentially the action of a funnel. A funnel is typically defined as a conically shaped pipe employed as a device to channel liquid or fine grained substances into containers with a small opening. Funnel in this application refers to a general shape only wherein there is a small end and a large end with the entire structure not necessarily conical. The funneling of light in the transflective application is essentially from the large end to the small end. The funneling of light in the collimating application is essentially from the small end to the large end.

Light collimation is defined as taking the given angular distribution of a light source and increasing the peak intensity which may be on axis by the process of narrowing that given angular distribution.

Light collimating or funneling effects can be accomplished by using all optical layer formed by a series of discrete tapered optical elements in combination with an immersing layer and a reflecting layer having openings or apertures disposed therein corresponding to the positioning and shape of the tapered ends of the optical elements. To perform a light collimating or funneling function the optical element is tapered towards a light source such that the optical element has a large area end and a small area end. In this manner the small area ends are light input ends and the large area ends are light output ends.

With continued reference to a CPC structure is located at the light input end and a linear section is located at the light output end of the optical element . In another embodiment not shown a CPC section similar to that shown in replaces the combination of the CPC structure and the linear section shown in .

In other embodiments not shown the optical elements have any suitable tapered shape including without limitation pyramids cones or any other three dimensional polygon or polyhedron. Further the discrete faces of the optical elements can be planar concave convex or pitted such that light entering the interior of an optical element is controlled funneled or collimated.

In other embodiments not shown the optical elements have intersecting indentations non intersecting indentations cones conic sections three dimensional parabolic structures pyramids polygons polyhedrons e.g. tetrahedrons regular multi sided structures or irregular multi sided structures. The reflectance transmittance and absorption of the optical elements may have different values. The sides of the structures may be linear non linear or a combination thereof.

An approximation of a CPC shape is easier to manufacture than a true CPC shape and may maintain or even improve peak performance. An arc of a circle is an example of an approximation to the CPC that may improve performance. A CPC structure may be approximated by an arc of a circle or a combination of a linear region on each side of a CPC. The combination of a CPC structure and two linear regions can be approximated by one linear region but performance may be reduced. In one embodiment the horizontal plane cross section can be square or rectangular to allow the structure to be readily manufactured by creating orthogonal lenticular channels. Creating at least two non orthogonal lenticular channels can produce other cross sections for the collimating structure. The cross sections can also be any regular or irregular polyhedron or any regular or irregular polygon.

A rectangular shaped horizontal plane cross section with a corresponding rectangular shaped input end may result in a collimated light output that is not symmetric. The angular distribution of light output along the length of the rectangular input structure is greater than the angular distribution of light along its width. Increasing the length of the rectangular input structure increases the input area relative to the output area of the element thus more total energy is available at the output of the element. Therefore the angular distribution of the output light can be pre determined based on the display application. The area of the input relative to the output is a design parameter of the device that allows control of the angular distribution of the output light. This can be applied for example in a liquid crystal display television LCD TV in which the horizontal direction requires a wider viewing angle than the vertical direction. To satisfy the requirement for a wider viewing angle the length of the input structure would run in the horizontal direction while the width would run vertically.

In one embodiment the draft angle may be about 8.degree. or more thereby yielding a device whose performance may be the same as if the second linear section was extended to define the entire device. In other words the performance may be as if the first linear section and CPC were removed and replaced by an extension of the second linear section. Such a design would be chosen for ease of manufacturing although performance is lowered. Smaller draft angles have higher performance but are more difficult to manufacture because of higher aspect ratio. The aspect ratio is defined as the ratio of the depth of the light guide to the distance between input apertures. A CPC or circular fit to a CPC device allows for the design of a low aspect ratio easy to manufacture device rather than the same performing higher aspect linear device. For example a linear design with a draft angle of 3.5.degree. or aspect ratio of close to 8 1 would have about the same performance as a CPC or circular equivalent device of aspect ratio about 2.9 1. In other embodiments the CPC approximation has an aspect ratio range of less than 1 1 to greater than about 7.5 1.

In alternative embodiments not shown the optical elements are arranged in a variety of patterns. For example the optical elements may be repeated in parallel and spaced across the area of the film. The optical elements may be arranged in varying shapes heights angles or spacings before a pattern is repeated. Alternatively the optical elements may be arranged randomly so that there is no discernable pattern. Occasional variation in structure or what might be termed disruptive structures may be used to eliminate or reduce effects of unwanted aberrations such as Moir effects .

In one embodiment the optical layer is formed from a highly transmissive polymer with an index of refraction exceeding that of air index of refraction approximately 1 . In one embodiment the index of refraction for the polymer used to form the light containing region of the optical element is at least about 1.1 or even at least about 1.2. In another embodiment the index of refraction for the polymer used to form the light containing region of the optical element is in the range of about 1.3 to about 1.8. This region is surrounded by any compatible material for example air or a polymer of lower index of refraction than the light containing region that allows total internal reflection TIR at the internal boundary the boundary internal to the device of the light containing region. The lower the index of refraction of the polymer of the light containing region of the optical element the smaller the Fresnel losses at the external air boundary of the input and output ends. This process of improved gain with lower index of refraction is limited only by the requirement to find a compatible material of low enough index of refraction to allow TIR at the internal boundary.

In one embodiment the immersing layer is constructed of a polymeric material. Minimizing Fresnel losses requires an optically transparent material of the same index of refraction as the light containing region of the device. In another embodiment any optically transparent material of any index of refraction can be used including glass or air. If air is used the reflecting layer is deposited directly on the optical element layer .

The reflecting layer includes apertures or openings which match light input sides of optical elements in the optical element layer . In one embodiment the reflecting layer is created by sputtering or chemically vapor depositing CVD a thin film of several microns of highly reflecting material onto a highly transmissive polymer substrate the immersing layer and selectively removing reflecting material at the location of the light input sides . The apertures in the reflecting layer can also be created by extending the material of the light input sides and piercing through the reflecting layer . In one embodiment the input apertures are in the same plane as the top of the reflecting layer. In this embodiment the reflecting layer is constructed of metal such as nickel gold aluminum silver or other suitable metal. However in other embodiments not shown the reflecting layer may be constructed of any reflecting substance.

The highly transmissive polymer substrate used to construct the immersing layer may be the same polymer used in the optical elements in the optical element layer . The use of the same polymer would allow an optically seamless interface with the rest of the collimating or funneling structure and minimize Fresnel losses. In the case where the reflecting layer acts as a specular or diffuse scattering layer the reflecting layer has as high a reflectivity as possible with specular or diffuse reflection in the one embodiment in excess of 95 . The excess reflective material the reflective material that would block the input to the light containing region of the device may be removed by for example masking and etching so that the areas without reflecting material form the apertures . As noted above the reflecting layer with apertures formed therein can be located on either side of the immersing layer so long as there is at least one reflecting layer facing the backlight .

Here the reflecting layer acts as a thin specularly or diffuse reflecting layer that allows the light from the source to be recycled by reflection. In an alternative embodiment the reflecting layer is a diffuse reflecting layer rather than a specular reflecting layer. However the preferred embodiment is for a specularly reflecting layer because ray tracing calculations show a decline in performance of a diffuse reflecting layer relative to a specularly reflecting layer. In yet another alternative embodiment the surface of the reflecting layer is textured with for example systematic or random depressions or elevations such as dimples to guide the light into the input apertures more efficiently that is with a minimum number of reflections and minimum energy lost. The reflective surface of the LCD backlight reflector can also be optically tuned to match the reflective layer of the device with the same goal of minimizing the number of reflections while guiding the light into the input apertures.

With continued reference to B and C the reflecting layer is disposed on the side of immersing layer opposite from the backlight . In an alternative embodiment not shown the reflecting layer is disposed on the side of the immersing layer that faces the backlight . In either embodiment the reflecting layer reflects light towards the backlight for recycling.

In this embodiment the collimating or funneling structure includes an optical layer formed from a plurality of three dimensional optical elements having a light input side and a light output side . In the embodiment illustrated in B and C the optical elements are joined together to form a sheet at their light output sides thereby yielding a continuous collimating film. In an alternative embodiment shown in the light containing region of the optical elements are discrete and detached from each other but are joined in a common polymer sheet .

In the embodiment illustrated in B and C the light input side of the optical element layer is in contact with the reflecting layer such that the optical elements of optical layer correspond to the apertures formed in the reflecting layer . In an alternative embodiment shown in the optical elements of the optical element layer extend to embed the reflecting layer . In other words the light input side extends into the apertures of the reflecting layer and contact the immersing layer . In this embodiment there is no gap between the immersing layer and the optical element layer . This may be achieved by manufacturing the immersing layer and the optical element layer as a single continuous layer and later joining for example laminating the reflecting layer onto the optical element layer .

In another alternative embodiment not shown the reflecting layer is formed on the side of the immersing layer facing the backlight and the light input side of the optical elements is in contact with the immersing layer .

Regardless of the positioning of the reflecting layer in relation to the immersing layer the reflecting layer faces the backlight . The light emitted from the backlight must eventually pass through the aperture in the reflecting layer and subsequently through the optical elements of the optical layer in order to be collimated. Light not passing through an aperture is reflected back to the backlight which subsequently reflects the light back towards apertures. The light is then repeatedly reflected until it either passes through an aperture or is lost to the system by absorption. The exit angular distribution of the collimated light may be designed so as to match the range of pixel acceptance angles found in different LCD display types. This would maximize the amount of light incident on the pixel that could be processed by the LCD thereby maximizing the luminance perceived by an observer.

In one type of transflective LCD additional light recycling can occur between the structure and light reflected from the backside of a reflective portion of a pixel and recycled. This type of transflective LCD is constructed of pixels containing both a transmissive aperture and a reflective region. In another type of transflective LCD the pixel is transmissive and the reflective region is located on an optical element exterior to the pixel. The major difference between such a transflective LCD and a transmissive LCD is the reflective region located on an optical element exterior to the pixel. The transmissive LCD could include the collimating device disclosed herein.

In one embodiment the index of refraction of the optical element layer is greater than the index of refraction of the fill material . The index of refraction of the optical element layer is sufficiently greater than the index of refraction of the fill material to allow TIR at the internal boundary the boundary internal to the device of the light containing region without light leakage from the light containing region. This difference is calculated to be about 0.15 with higher required values for differences related to a lower index of refraction for the optical elements and a smaller required values of differences related to a higher index of refraction. It should be noted that there is no upper limit on the difference between the indices of refraction between the polymer occupying filling the air spaces and the polymer used to form the optical element layer so long as the minimum difference to create TIR without leakage mentioned above is met.

In the embodiment illustrated in the transflective structure is positioned between a backlight and an ambient light source A. The reflecting layer may have apertures or openings formed therein to transmit light from the backlight while reflecting light from the ambient light source A. In the reflecting layer is formed on the side of the immersing layer that faces the optical layer . Alternatively the reflecting layer may be formed on the side of the immersing layer that faces the ambient light source A or it may be formed on both sides of the immersing layer . The structure and properties of the immersing layer and the reflecting layer are otherwise substantially similar to that of the immersing layer and the reflecting layer described above in relation to the light collimating or funneling structure . As such a discussion of the complete structure and properties of the immersing layer and the reflecting layer disclosed in will be omitted for brevity.

The optical layer may be formed of three dimensional tapered optical elements such as those shown in B A B C and . In this embodiment the small area ends of the optical elements face the ambient light source A and thus function as light output ends for light transmitted from the backlight . The light output ends of the optical elements of optical layer corresponds to the apertures formed in the reflecting layer . In this embodiment the light output ends extend to contact the reflective layer . In an alternative embodiment the light output ends extend to embed the reflecting layer as shown in . In another alternative embodiment the reflective layer is formed on the side of the immersing layer opposite the optical layer and the light output ends of the optical elements contact the immersing layer .

The structure and properties of the optical layer are otherwise substantially similar to that of the optical layer described above in relation to . As such a discussion of the complete structure and properties of the optical layer disclosed in will be omitted for brevity.

In an alternative embodiment not shown the transflective structure is positioned between the backlight and the light collimating or funneling structure so that light emitted from the backlight is first transmitted through the transflective structure and then is collimated or funneled by the light collimating or funneling structure while ambient light is reflected off the reflecting layer . The light collimating or funneling structure and the transflective structure are substantially the same as those discussed in relation to . As such a discussion of the complete light collimating or funneling structure and transflective structure disclosed in will be omitted for brevity.

With continued reference to a backlight is located adjacent a rear polarizer . The optical layer of a transflector is positioned between the rear polarizer and the liquid crystal suspension . The liquid crystal suspension is also adjacent a front glass . The front glass is also adjacent a front polarizer . Because the pixels include a reflective layer the transflector has no need for a reflective layer. In an alternative embodiment not shown a rear glass is disposed between the transflector and the liquid crystal suspension . In another alternative embodiment not shown the transflector is positioned behind the front polarizer .

With continued reference to a backlight is located adjacent a rear polarizer . The collimating device is adjacent the rear glass such that the rear glass is disposed between the backlight and the collimating device . The optical layer of a transflector is positioned between the collimating device and the liquid crystal suspension . The liquid crystal suspension is also adjacent a front glass . The front glass is also adjacent a front polarizer . In an alternative embodiment not shown a rear glass is disposed between the transflector and the liquid crystal suspension . In an alternate embodiment not shown the transflector and collimating device are separated and the collimating device is positioned behind the front polarizer . In another alternate embodiment not shown both the transflector and collimating device are positioned behind the front polarizer .

The collimating or transflecting device or combination thereof may be used as part of the backplane of an LCD. Locating the transflective device in the backplane would alleviate both color shifts and parallax effects arising from the reflective ambient component. This should be particularly applicable in flexible so called plastic displays.

In this embodiment the optical element layers are arranged so that the lenticular channels are positioned orthogonal to each other. In other words the horizontal plane rectangular bases of the optical elements in the first optical element layer are orthogonal to the horizontal plane rectangular bases of the optical elements in the second optical element layer . In an alternative embodiment not shown the lenticular channel of the first optical element layer are placed at an acute or obtuse angle with respect to the lenticular channels of the second optical element layer . In one embodiment the second optical element layer the layer farthest from the backlight includes a metal layer . In an alternative embodiment not shown the upper layer does not include a metal layer. In an additional alternative embodiment not shown the structure includes a single layer of optical elements having rectangular cross sections.

The structure or may be used with for example a non emissive display system such as a liquid crystal display LCD or other devices in which light is directed for the purpose of creating an image. A typical non emissive display system of this type includes a stack comprised of a backlight a polarizer a liquid crystal suspension and another polarizer. On occasion glass plates may be layered in between each polarizer and the liquid crystal suspension. The structure or may be positioned between the backlight and the polarizer. In operation ambient light will pass through the various layers of polarizers glass plates which may include color filters common electrodes TFT matrix or other components and liquid crystal suspension and will be redirected by reflective structures located on the inside of the back glass plate of the liquid crystal while at the same time artificial light rays generated from a backlight assembly will pass through the structure or . The structure or may also be included as part of a sub assembly of an LCD or may be used in combination or conjunction with other recycling films such as collimating or reflective polarizing films.

The structure or may be inserted between the backlight assembly and the liquid crystal module where the reflective surface or surfaces of the structure or faces the backlight assembly and the transmissive surface faces the liquid crystal module.

The typical distribution of light from an LCD backlight is Lambertian. Such a distribution is considered uncollimated. The structure or collimates the Lambertian distribution of the backlight to a prespecified angle of distribution. The prespecified angular distribution depends on the index of refraction of the light containing polymer region the length and shape of the light containing region and the size of the input and output apertures. The reflective surface of the structure or may face the backlight assembly with light coming out of the backlight assembly and passing through the openings in the reflective surface to be eventually processed by the liquid crystal module.

Since space is usually at a premium inside an LCD the overall thickness of the structure or should be minimized. In one embodiment the overall thickness of the device may be less than about 1000 microns less than about 500 microns or even less than about 200. In another embodiment the structure or is not limited to any pre defined thickness. Rather the thickness of the structure or is determined by its use and is not necessarily limited to 1000 microns. Likewise the choice of periodicity is influenced by the LCD pixel periodicity. If periodicity for the device are smaller than the periodicities for the LCD manufacturing defects in the device are less likely to be visible and result in rejection. Typical periodicities for the device could range from the sub micron range to hundreds of microns. Typical input aperture widths also range from sub microns to hundreds of microns. Special care must be taken when using sub micron designs to deal with potential diffraction effects. Based on this range of possible designs both nanoreplication and microreplication methods are likely to be used in manufacturing the device. Performance will be maintained when structure features are properly scaled.

In another embodiment a structure or can be positioned within a liquid crystal module itself in three configurations 1 at the back surface of the rear glass of the liquid crystal module and in front of the polarizer 2 at the back surface of the rear glass of the liquid crystal module and behind the polarizer or 3 inside the rear glass of the liquid crystal module at the pixel level. For a two polarizer liquid crystal display system only the second configuration is possible for the display to process the light. For a single polarizer liquid crystal display system all three configurations are possible. In a plastic LCD the structure or may be incorporated as part of the backplane and not necessarily limited to 1000 microns. Likewise the choice of periodicity is influenced by the LCD pixel periodicity. If periodicities for the device are smaller than the periodicities for the LCD manufacturing defects in the device are less likely to be visible and result in rejection. Typical periodicities for the device could range from the sub micron range to hundreds of microns. Typical input aperture widths also range from sub microns to hundreds of microns. Special care must be taken when using sub micron designs to deal with potential diffraction effects. Based on this range of possible designs both nanoreplication and microreplication methods are likely to be used in manufacturing the device. Performance will be maintained when structure features are properly scaled.

The LCD can be manufactured on a roll to roll or assembled by layer basis for any of the embodiments described and the light collimating or funneling structure or can be an integral part of the stack. The layers of the LCD stack are produced or assembled on a layer by layer basis and the structure or can be incorporated as a part of the glass pixel collimator or polarizer. Functional components may be layered on a liquid crystal module substrate thereby permitting the structure or to be constructed as part of the overall liquid crystal module manufacturing process.

In one embodiment a non emissive display system may collimate light such that the majority of light emerges perpendicular to the device. The non emissive display system may also include a light polarizer. In any embodiment the collimating or polarizing material may be attached to the reflective or transmissive side of the device. The highly transmissive surface of the structure or may face the liquid crystal module and the highly reflective surface may face the backlight assembly. The collimating or polarizing material can be attached to the entire transmissive surface of the structure or . The collimating or polarizing materials may be an integrated design element and part of the manufactured product. Alternatively the material may be later adhered or fixed to either surface of the structure or . In one embodiment the collimating film may cover the entire area of the surface where the light emerges from the structure or . The collimating film may cover the full area of the display or at least a portion thereof.

Another way to collimate light is to include lens lets within the liquid crystal display system. The location could be either an integral with the structure or or separate from it the location of the lens lets may be directly above or underneath the structure or .

The optical elements described herein have the ability to allow light to pass from the backside while the front surface of the film can potentially be used to absorb direct reflect or deflect the ambient light. A modification of the transflective film can be used in an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED display. Take the original transflective design and replace the upper reflective metal area with light absorbing or directing material. The film sits between the OLED pixels light source and the top glass. This controls the effect of ambient light effectively unwanted glare in the emissive OLED display. There is also a traditional non OLED transmissive LCD application that would benefit from this design. This design to control glare and improve contrast can be used with any emissive display. This design as in the transflective design could be deployed as a film or as a component of the pixel surface.

There are at least four methods of microreplication manufacturing for the above described devices. The first method involves creation of a master mold and then the creation of the device. The master mold can be manufactured utilizing a diamond turning process or a photolithographic process including any part of the electromagnetic spectrum such as X ray lithography for LIGA as an example . To create the repeated structures of the device a mechanical process such as embossing or molding or a chemical process such as etching can be utilized. Thus utilizing these processes the structures may be formed in the body of a transparent film material glass or plastic substrate by creating indentations voids in the transparent material Light containing regions of the transparent material are then delineated by these indentations. Manufacturing techniques using transparent photosensitive materials where physical indentations are not formed will be described below.

The indentations may then be filled with either a reflective material or a material that has a lower index of refraction than that of the transparent film material. The indentations in the transparent film material may be embedded in the transparent film material such that the base of each shape is approximately parallel to and coincident with or slightly recessed from the transparent material. If the reflective fill material has a lower index of refraction than the transparent film material light will be contained in the transparent material.

To accommodate either of these processes the transparent film material has specific properties necessary for etching molding embossing or other processes that alter the body of the device. Examples of suitable materials are polymers such as polycarbonate and PMMA polymethylmethacrylate . Examples of reflective material for filling the indentations include a metal composite or other material with a high reflectivity such as aluminum gold silver nickel chrome a dielectric or other metallic alloy with a reflectivity of 80 or greater. In one embodiment the reflectivity of the material is 95 or greater. The fill material for the reflective structures will be optimized to minimize absorption and have highly reflective properties for the controlled redirection of energy. Examples of fill material that has a lower index of refraction than that of the transparent film material include clear composite paste composite material e.g. polymer or multiple composite materials with different refractive indices or reflective qualities. In an alternative embodiment no material e.g. gas air or vacuum may be used to fill the indentations.

The minimum difference in index of refraction between the fill and the body of the element is estimated to be 0.01 to achieve TIR of that portion such that light does not leak by refraction through the boundary of the light containing region. The index of refraction difference may not be the same for each shape across the body of the device as long as there is sufficient index of refraction difference between the fill and the body of the element so that some of the light undergoes TIR and does not leak out of the light containing region. Preferably however the indices of refraction are the same for each shape across the body of the device. Furthermore a portion of the indentations may be filled with a first material and then a second portion of the indentation may be filled with a second material. For example the top of the indentation may be filled with aluminum while the rest of the indentation may be filled with a clear polymer having a lower index of refraction than that of the transparent film material.

A second method of manufacturing the above described devices produces the structures in a transparent photosensitive film. The structures are produced by changing the index of refraction in specific areas of the body of the transparent photosensitive film to have the equivalent function and shape of the collimating or transflector structures herein described wherein the function and shape may be the same.

As in the manufacturing technique using microreplication the equivalent appropriate structures are created whereby the high index of refraction structures become the light containing regions and the low index of refraction regions act as the light guiding boundary regions. The process includes forming a transparent photosensitive film on the surface of a substrate for example by deposition . The transparent photosensitive film may be constructed of any clear material that when exposed to light changes its optical properties. The photosensitive material should exhibit favorable optical and mechanical properties. In addition to a sufficient photo induced refractive index change a suitable set of writing wavelengths typically in the ultraviolet optical transparency thin film formability and mechanical behavior are of great importance. The transparent photosensitive film may be written by scanning over the surface with a repeated pattern or over a larger volume through a micro lenslet array.

Examples of materials used in this process include OLEDs or organic polymers that have optimized mechanical behavior or organic inorganic hybrids that combine the chemical versatility of organic polymers i.e. polysilanes polygermanes and or their sol gel hybrids. Other materials include organic polymer such as specially modified polyethylene polycarbonate polyvinylcinnamate and polymethylmethacrylate. Other materials include the combination a transparent polymer matrix and a polymerable photo reactive substance comprising a photopolymerizable monomer. The transparent polymer matrix may be selected from the group consisting of polyolefins synthetic rubbers polyvinyl chloride polyester polyamide cellulose derivatives polyvinyl alcohol polyacrylates polymethacrylates polyurethane polyurethane acrylate and epoxy acrylate resin. The photo reactive substance comprises a photo reactive initiator which has a refractive index regulating activity and said film has a distribution of a refractive index. The photopolymerizable monomer may be selected from the group consisting of tri bromophenoxyethyl acrylate and trifluoroethyl acrylate.

A thin layer of reflective material is then deposited on the surface of the photosensitive transparent film opposite the substrate. In one embodiment the reflective material for the thin layer of reflective metal is a metal composite or other material with a high reflectivity such as aluminum gold silver nickel chrome a dielectric or other metallic alloy with a reflectivity of 80 or greater. Preferably the reflectivity of the material is 95 or greater. Predetermined regions of the reflective metal deposition are then removed by ablating the reflective material to expose the photosensitive film in the predetermined regions. These predetermined regions are then exposed to a light source to change the optical characteristics of the photosensitive film in the predetermined regions to alter the index of refraction of the photosensitive film in the predetermined regions to thereby form altered refractive index areas. The steps of ablating the reflective metal and changing the optical characteristics of the photosensitive film are accomplished by a light source that faces the metal reflective layer that may produce ultraviolet light. The light source may comprise an optical radiation source that irradiates light at a specific wavelength and of sufficient intensity through a micro lenslet array so as to ablate the reflective metal layer and change the optical characteristics of the photosensitive film. In one embodiment the radiation source is an excimer laser.

The unchanged portions of the photosensitive film comprise unaltered refractive index areas i.e. structures having a lower index of refraction than the altered refractive index areas.

A third method of manufacturing also produces the desired structures in a transparent photosensitive film. The process also includes forming a transparent photosensitive film on the surface of a substrate. The transparent photosensitive film may be constructed of the same materials as discussed above. A photoresist layer is then formed on the photosensitive film. Predetermined regions of the photosensitive film and the photoresist layer are then exposed to a light source that faces the substrate to change the optical characteristics of the photosensitive film in the predetermined regions and to alter the index of refraction of the photosensitive film in the predetermined regions to thereby form altered refractive index areas in the photosensitive film. The light source may comprise an optical radiation source that irradiates light at a specific wavelength and of sufficient intensity through a micro lenslet array so as to ablate the reflective metal layer and change the optical characteristics of the photosensitive film. Preferably the radiation source is an Excimer laser. The exposed photoresist layer in the predetermined region is then removed using a suitable etchant that creates an opening to the photosensitive film. A thin layer of reflective material is then deposited in the openings previously occupied by the exposed photoresist layer. In one embodiment the reflective material for the thin layer of reflective metal is a metal composite or other material with a high reflectivity such as aluminum gold silver nickel chrome a dielectric or other metallic alloy with a reflectivity of 80 or greater. In one embodiment the reflectivity of the material is 95 or greater. Finally the residual photoresist layer is washed away and lifted off removing the unwanted material that was on the residual photoresist layer leaving the desired pattern on the remainder of the surface.

A fourth manufacturing method or process for creating the above described devices includes a single step process of producing the desired structures in a transparent photosensitive film. In this method CPC or approximate CPC structures are manufactured from a photosensitive polymer by exposing the output side of the structure to a laser light using a lens masking system. The photosensitive polymer reacts to the laser light in a pre determined frequency band by changing its index of refraction in appropriately selected areas. A printing system is guided by the light output from the structures created by the change in index of refraction. Simultaneously then a reflective layer surrounding the input apertures can be manufactured by printing a reflecting layer whenever there is no light. To complete the process a simple blanket polymer deposition on the input aperture side is performed to immerse the reflecting layer.

In other embodiments related to utilizing a photosensitive transparent material discrete structures may be arranged in varying structures heights angles or spacing and one or more of the discrete faces of a structure may be concave convex and or pitted. Additionally micro shapes such as pyramids or cones may be deposited on one side of the body of the element directly over the base of each structure either as part of a deposition process described above or as an independent process to further control the direction of reflected energy. In other embodiments the indices of refraction may be different for each discrete structure such that various alternating patterns are produced across the body of the element to achieve specific effects. In other embodiments a combination of structures created by filled indentations and altering the refractive index of a photosensitive material may be used to create various patterns across the body of the element. In one embodiment a reflective material such as metal or any material with the equivalent of an infinite index of refraction may be inserted underneath the polymer cladding layer layer of lower index of refraction material to reflect light exceeding the cladding s index of refraction critical angle. This will reflect light normally lost by reflecting light back into the wave guide region. This technique may be used for all structure sizes defined above.

Another method of creating the above described devices includes fabrication of structures from some suitable material that will maintain integrity in the physical working environment and suspending the structures by some suitable method. Suspension may be accomplished by the use of wire or some type of filament that forms a grid but will depend on the specific application and will be apparent to one skilled in the art. This aspect of the invention is useful in solar applications or other applications where the size of transflectors may or may not be limited by the size requirements of non emissive displays where the intended use is by the human visual system .

Another method to manufacture light guiding structures is to directly locate structures on top of a supporting surface such as glass or polymer. One preferred embodiment is an isosceles shaped light guiding structure made of metal or a highly reflective material resting on glass. The wave guide structures are laid on top of or deposited on the underlying supporting surface. Another preferred embodiment is where the supporting surface contains periodic shapes grooved or projection wherein a fluid containing the appropriate mating pieces is passed over the periodic shapes of the supporting surface such that the probability of creating the desired device is 100 . This can be accomplished as in biological systems by having a sufficient number of the mating pieces carried in the fluid in excess of the shapes on the supporting structure.

While the present application illustrates various embodiments and while these embodiments have been described in some detail it is not the intention of the applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the claimed invention to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details the representative apparatus and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of the applicant s claimed invention.

