---

title: Skew measurement apparatus, skew measurement method, recording media and test apparatus
abstract: Provided is a skew measurement apparatus, including sampling sections that each sample one of a plurality of signals under measurement having a cycle T, a waveform reconfiguring section that shapes a reconfigured waveform having the cycle T by rearranging ordinal ranks of sample values of the signal under measurement sampled by each sampling section, a distribution generating section that generates a timing distribution of edges in the reconfigured waveform of the corresponding signal under measurement, and a skew calculating section that calculates skew between the signals under measurement being compared based on the timing distribution of each signal under measurement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933728&OS=07933728&RS=07933728
owner: Advantest Corporation
number: 07933728
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080508
---
The present invention relates to a skew measurement apparatus a skew measurement method a recording medium and a test apparatus. In particular the present invention relates to a skew measurement apparatus a skew measurement method a recording medium and a test apparatus for measuring skew of a plurality of signal under measurement using a digital comparator such as a voltage comparator.

Skew refers to the timing difference between a plurality of signals output from a plurality of signal sources. Conventional skew measurement methods use a time interval analyzer or a frequency counter to statistically estimate the skew. For example Wavecrest Corp. Jitter Analysis Clock Solutions 1998 discloses an exemplary skew measurement using a time interval analyzer. As another skew measurement example U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 018 discloses a technique for obtaining instantaneous phases of clock signals under measurement and obtaining the clock skew from the initial phase difference between these instantaneous phases.

The clock skew measurement method using the time interval analyzer however has dead time after each single measurement during which another measurement cannot be performed and therefore a long sampling time is required to achieve the desired measurement accuracy. Since waveform measurement accuracy of approximately 8 bits is required to accurately calculate the initial phase of the instantaneous phase of the clock signal under measurement using the analysis technique disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 018 this technique cannot be applied to a semiconductor test apparatus that samples a waveform with a 1 bit comparator.

Therefore it is an object of an aspect of the innovations herein to provide a skew measurement apparatus a skew measurement method a recording medium and a test apparatus which are capable of overcoming the above drawbacks accompanying the related art. The above and other objects can be achieved by combinations described in the independent claims. The dependent claims define further advantageous and exemplary combinations of the innovations herein.

According to a first aspect related to the innovations herein one exemplary skew measurement apparatus may include a skew measurement apparatus including sampling sections that each sample one of a plurality of signals under measurement having a cycle T a waveform reconfiguring section that shapes a reconfigured waveform having the cycle T by rearranging ordinal ranks of sample values of the signal under measurement sampled by each sampling section a distribution generating section that generates a timing distribution of edges in the reconfigured waveform of each signal under measurement and a skew calculating section that calculates skew between the signals under measurement being compared based on the timing distribution of each signal under measurement. The sampling sections may each sample the corresponding signal under measurement having the cycle T a certain number of times N while the signal under measurement repeats for M cycles where M and N are coprime. The waveform reconfiguring section may rearrange initial ordinal ranks k of the sample values sampled by the sampling sections to have reconfigured ordinal ranks i by inputting the initial ordinal ranks k into an expression i k M mod N where k is expressed by integers from 0 to N 1 and may use these rearranged sample values to shape the reconfigured waveform having the cycle T.

The skew calculating section may calculate the skew as a difference between expected values of the timing distributions of the signals under measurement being compared or to be a minimum difference or a maximum difference between timing distribution ends of the signals under measurement being compared. The distribution generating section may include a unit interval waveform generating section that generates a plurality of unit interval waveforms by dividing the reconfigured waveform into a plurality of unit intervals an aggregate value calculating section that calculates an aggregate value at each phase in each of the plurality of unit interval waveforms by adding together the sample values at the same phase of each unit interval waveform and a difference calculating section that calculates a difference between each pair of aggregate values at adjacent phases. The distribution generating section may generate the timing distribution based on the differences calculated by the difference calculating sections.

The distribution generating section may further include a waveform inverting section that inverts the unit interval waveforms generated by the unit interval waveform generating section and the aggregate value calculating section may add the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having rising edges to the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having falling edges that are inverted by the waveform inverting section or may add the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having falling edges to the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having rising edges that are inverted by the waveform inverting section. The skew measurement apparatus may further include a prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section that selects the unit interval waveforms generated by the unit interval waveform generating section at prescribed bit intervals in the signal under measurement and the aggregate value calculating section may add together the sample values of each unit interval waveform in the group selected by the prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section. The aggregate value calculating section may add together the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having rising edges or the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having falling edges.

The skew measurement apparatus may further include an identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section that selects from among the unit interval waveforms generated by the unit interval waveform generating section a group of unit interval waveforms having identical data sequences in the signal under measurement immediately prior thereto and the aggregate value calculating section may add together the sample values of each unit interval waveform in the group selected by the identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section. The skew measurement apparatus may further include a prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section that selects the unit interval waveforms generated by the unit interval waveform generating section at prescribed bit intervals in each signal under measurement and the aggregate value calculating section may add the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having rising edges to the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having falling edges that are inverted by the waveform inverting section in the group of unit interval waveforms selected by the prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section.

The configurations described above can be adopted in a similar manner to provide a skew measurement method a recording medium storing thereon a program used by the skew measurement apparatus and a test apparatus that supplies a test signal to a device under test to test the device under test. The test apparatus may further include a skew notification section that that provides notification concerning the skew calculated by the skew calculating section which is the skew between the signals under measurement and a frequency characteristic adjusting section that adjusts a frequency characteristic of the test signal to decrease the skew according to the skew as notified by the skew notification section.

The summary clause does not necessarily describe all necessary features of the embodiments of the present invention. The present invention may also be a sub combination of the features described above. The above and other features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description of the embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Hereinafter some embodiments of the present invention will be described. The embodiments do not limit the invention according to the claims and all the combinations of the features described in the embodiments are not necessarily essential to means provided by aspects of the invention.

As shown in the skew measurement apparatus is provided with a plurality of sampling sections and a plurality of skew evaluating section and may also be provided with a memory . The skew measurement apparatus may be provided with a number of sampling sections equal to the number of signal under measurement. The skew evaluating section includes a waveform processing section and a skew calculating section . The skew evaluating section may include a plurality of waveform processing sections . The skew evaluating section may include a number of waveform processing sections equal to the number of sampling sections .

The following describes the skew measurement apparatus as having two sampling sections and two waveform processing sections but the skew measurement apparatus is not limited to this configuration. In the present embodiment one of the sampling sections receives the signal under measurement and the other sampling section receives the signal under measurement . One of the waveform processing sections may correspond to one of the sampling sections and the other waveform processing section may correspond to the other sampling section .

The sampling sections sample the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement having a cycle T. The sampling sections may sample the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement having the cycle T a certain number of times N while the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement repeat for M cycles where M and N are coprime. The following describes one of the sampling sections receiving the signal under measurement but the sampling section that receives the signal under measurement can sample the signal under measurement in the same manner. The sampling section samples the input signal under measurement with a sampling cycle Ts based on a strobe timing for example to shape an input waveform X k of the input signal under measurement . Here k represents the ordinal rank of the sample values sampled by the sampling section and may be an integer from 0 to N 1. The integer k represents the initial sampling ordinal rank and the value of k in the input waveform X k increases in the sampled order.

The sampling section is an AD converter or a voltage comparator sometimes referred to hereinafter as an ADC for example. The sampling section may be a digital comparator or a waveform digitizer. The resolution of the ADC is 1 bit or 1.6 bits for example. When the ADC with a 1 bit resolution is used the sample values of the input waveform X k may be expressed by binary logic values such as 0 and 1. When the ADC with a 1.6 bit resolution is used the sample values of the input waveform X k may be expressed by three values. The sampling section is not limited to sampling the signal under measurement only while the signal under measurement having the cycle T is repeating for M cycles. For example the sampling section may sample the signal under measurement while the signal under measurement is repeating for 5M cycles.

The memory may store sampling results and the like of the sampling section . For example the memory stores sample values of the input waveforms X k corresponding to the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement respectively obtained by the sampling section sampling the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement in association with k indicating the initial ordinal rank with an integer from 0 to N 1.

The skew evaluating section calculates an edge timing distribution for each of the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement and outputs the skew between the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement . The skew evaluating section may output the deterministic skew. The skew evaluating section may obtain the skew between the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement by reading the input waveforms X k corresponding to the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement that are stored in the memory .

Upon receiving the input waveform X k acquired from the memory the waveform processing section outputs the statistical value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement for example. If the input waveform X k of the signal under measurement is input the waveform processing section outputs the statistical value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement in the same manner as signal under measurement . The waveform processing section has a waveform reconfiguring section a distribution generating section and a statistical value calculating section .

The waveform reconfiguring section rearranges the order of the sample values of the input waveform X k sampled by the sampling section to shape a reconfigured waveform X i having a cycle T. Here i represents the rearranged ordinal rank. The relationship between the rearranged ordinal rank i and the initial ordinal rank k is shown by Expression 1 and i may be an integer from 0 to N 1. When M is expressed by M nN 1 where n is any natural number the rearranging process described above can be omitted since i k. mod Expression 1

When the signal under measurement or the signal under measurement has the cycle T and M and N are coprime the sampling section can sample the signal under measurement or the signal under measurement with a cycle Te that is shorter than a sampling cycle Ts. This effective sampling cycle Te is shown by Expression 2. Hereinafter the effective sampling cycle Te is sometimes referred to as an equivalent sampling time interval . Expression 2

The distribution generating section generates a timing distribution of the edges in the reconfigured waveform X i . This distribution is sometimes referred to hereinafter as an edge timing distribution and the edge timing distribution is an example of the timing distribution. The edge timing distribution may be a PDF of the timing of each edge in the signal under measurement .

The statistical value calculating section calculates the statistical value of the edge timing distribution. The statistical value calculating section may calculate an expected value of the edge timing distribution and a distribution width of the edge timing distribution as the statistical value. Here the expected value may be an average value. The distribution width may be an indicator of the range of the data variation such as a variance a standard deviation a quartile deviation an RMS value a peak to peak value or a half width. In the present embodiment the phrase distribution ends refers to both ends of the distribution width which are the minimum value and the maximum value of the edge timing distribution for example. The distribution ends may be obtained using the average value of the edge timing distribution and the distribution width of the standard deviation or the like.

The skew calculating section may calculate the skew between the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement being compared based on the edge timing distributions of each of these signals. The skew calculating section may output the skew as the difference between the expected value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and the expected value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement . The skew calculating section may calculate the difference between the distribution ends of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and the distribution ends of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and output the difference between the minimum values or the difference between the maximum values of the distribution ends as the skew.

The skew measurement apparatus may be hardware or may be software that causes a processor not shown to execute a process. The processor may be a CPU or a computer controlling the process. The functions of the elements included in the skew evaluating section are not strictly separated. For example the statistical value calculating section may have the functions of the distribution generating section and the skew calculating section may have the functions of the waveform processing section .

Upon receiving the reconfigured waveform X i from the waveform reconfiguring section the unit interval waveform generating section divides X i into a prescribed number of unit intervals Tu to generate a plurality of unit interval waveforms X m . The unit interval waveform generating section desirably divides the reconfigured waveform X i such that each unit interval waveform X m has an edge roughly in the center.

Here the coefficient Lu and the bit period Tb which represents the bit time interval of the signal under measurement are used to express Tu as Tu Lu Tb. If Lu 1 for example Tu may be equal to the bit period Tb representing the bit time interval of the signal under measurement and Tu is desirably chosen to be a value such that Tu Te is equal to a positive integer. It is desirable that Lu be a positive integer. The ordinal rank of a certain unit interval waveform X m in the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m is represented by p. For example the number Nu of unit interval waveforms X m included in the sampled signal under measurement is used to express p as an integer from 1 to Nu. The number Nu may be greater than N depending on the sampling period of the signal under measurement .

The ordinal rank of the sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m is represented by m. Hereinafter m is sometimes referred to as the ordinal rank after division . The relation between the ordinal rank after division m and the reconfigured ordinal rank i is shown by Expression 3. In Expression 3 Tu Te represents the number of sample values included in each unit interval waveform X m . The ordinal rank after division m is represented by an integer from 0 to Tu Te 1. mod mod Expression 3

The unit interval waveform group selecting section may generate a unit interval waveform group by selecting unit interval waveforms X m having a prescribed feature from among the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m generated by the unit interval waveform generating section dividing the reconfigured waveform X i . For example the unit interval waveform group selecting section selects only the unit interval waveforms X m having a rising edge or only the unit interval waveforms X m having a falling edge. If the ADC with a 1 bit resolution is used the unit interval waveform group selecting section may select the unit interval waveforms X m having a rising edge by selecting only the unit interval waveforms X m in which the first sample value is logic L. In the same manner the unit interval waveform group selecting section may select the unit interval waveforms X m having a falling edge by selecting only the unit interval waveforms X m in which the first sample value is logic H.

The waveform inverting section may invert the unit interval waveforms X m generated by the unit interval waveform generating section . By doing this the waveform inverting section can invert the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges to be unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges. It should be noted that the edge timing of the edges in the unit interval waveforms X m does not change even when the unit interval waveform group selecting section inverts the unit interval waveforms X m .

The aggregate value calculating section adds the sample values of identical phases in the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m to obtain an aggregate value for each phase. For example the aggregate value calculating section may calculate the aggregate value at each ordinal rank after division m for each unit interval waveform X m by adding together the sample values at each of the ordinal ranks after division m which has a relation to the reconfigured ordinal ranks i as expressed by m i mod N Tu T included in the unit interval waveform X m . The aggregate value calculating section may add the sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges and the inverted sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges that are inverted by the waveform inverting section . The aggregate value calculating section may instead add the sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges and the inverted sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges that are inverted by the waveform inverting section .

The aggregate value calculating section may instead add only the sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges or may add only the sample values of the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges. For example the skew of the rising edges and of the falling edges is different if the signal under measurement is a clock signal with a duty ratio other than 50 . Even if the signal under measurement is such a signal the skew measurement apparatus described above can accurately measure both the skew of the falling edges and the skew of the rising edges respectively.

The difference calculating section calculates the difference between two aggregate values in adjacent phases. For example the difference calculating section calculates the difference between aggregate values having adjacent ordinal ranks after division m for the aggregate value at each ordinal rank after division m in the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m . The distribution generating section generates the timing distribution based on the differences calculated by the difference calculating section . For example the distribution generating section may generate the edge timing distribution in which the differences calculated by the difference calculating section are associated with the ordinal rank after division m.

The distribution width calculating section may calculate the distribution width of the edge timing distribution. By doing this the distribution width calculating section can calculate the width of the fluctuation of the edge timing distribution on the time axis. The distribution width calculating section may have a standard deviation calculating section a maximum value calculating section a minimum value calculating section and a peak to peak calculating section . The standard deviation calculating section calculates the standard deviation of the edge timing distribution as an example of the distribution width. The maximum value calculating section calculates the maximum value of the edge timing distribution as an example of the distribution width. The minimum value calculating section calculates the minimum value of the edge timing distribution as an example of the distribution width. The peak to peak calculating section may calculate the peak to peak value which is an example of the distribution width. The peak to peak calculating section may calculate the peak to peak value by subtracting the minimum value calculated by the minimum value calculating section from the maximum value calculated by the maximum value calculating section .

By adopting the configuration described above the waveform processing section can generate the edge timing of the signal under measurement based on the sampled input waveform X k . The waveform processing section can also calculate the statistical value of the edge timing distribution by calculating the statistical value of the generated edge timing distribution. The following is a detailed description of the performances of the waveform reconfiguring section the distribution generating section and the statistical value calculating section in the waveform processing section .

In sample represents the point at which the sampling begins that is the sampling occurring at the timing k 0. As shown in the sample value of the input waveform X 0 at sample was logic H. Sample represents the point reached after the time Ts has passed since sample that is the sampling occurring at the timing k 1. The sample value of the input waveform X 1 at sample was logic L. The input waveform X k was obtained by sampling the signal under measurement at the timings k 0 to k 8 in the same manner described above.

The sample values of the input waveform X k obtained by the sampling section through the sampling described above are arranged according to the initial ordinal rank k as sampled by the sampling section . The waveform reconfiguring section obtains the reconfigured waveform X i having the cycle T by rearranging the order of the sample values to have the rearranged ordinal rank i. The reconfigured ordinal rank i is obtained from Expression 1. For example the i corresponding to k 3 is i 3 4 mod 9 3. Specifically the sample value sampled at a time when 3Ts has passed since initiation of the sampling is treated in the reconfigured waveform X i as a sample value sampled at a time when 3Te has passed since initiation of the sampling. The waveform reconfiguring section obtains the reconfigured waveform X i by rearranging the sample values from k 0 to k 8 in the same manner.

The statistical value calculating section may use Expression 5 to calculate a standard deviation TJ. The statistical value calculating section may calculate the maximum value Tand the minimum value Tof the edge timing distribution. The maximum value Tmay be calculated as the maximum time tat which X m is not zero. The minimum value Tmay be calculated as the minimum time tat which X m is not zero. In Trepresents the maximum value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement Trepresents the maximum value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement Trepresents the minimum value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and Trepresents the minimum value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement . The statistical value calculating section may use Expression 6 to calculate a peak to peak value TJ. In Expression 6 max t x 0 represents the maximum time tat which X m is not zero and min t x 0 represents the minimum time tat which X m is not zero.

The following uses to describe the general process performed by the skew calculating section . The skew calculating section may obtain the skew between the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement by calculating the difference between the average value Eof the edge timing of the signal under measurement and the average value Eof the edge timing of the signal under measurement or the absolute value of this difference. The skew calculating section may calculate the maximum values or the minimum values of the timing distribution ends of the signal under measurement and the signal under measurement . For example the skew calculating section uses Expression 7 to obtain the maximum skew value . In Expression 7 max T T represents the greater of the two values Tand T and min TT represents the lesser of the two values Tand T. max min Expression 7

The skew calculating section may calculate the skew as the difference between any one of the average value the minimum value or the maximum value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and any one of the average value the minimum value or the maximum value of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement . For example the skew calculating section may calculate the skew to be the difference between Eand T described the operation of the skew evaluating section with regards to a clock signal but the operation of the skew evaluating section is not limited to a clock signal. The skew evaluating section can calculate the skew in the same manner for other types of periodic signals.

At S the waveform reconfiguring section reconfigures the input waveform X k to generate the reconfigured waveform X i . The waveform reconfiguring section may reconfigure the input waveform X k by acquiring the sample values stored in the memory and rearranging the initial ordinal ranks k to be the reconfigured ordinal ranks i using the calculation i k M mod N. At S the unit interval waveform generating section divides the reconfigured waveform X i into unit intervals Tu to obtain a plurality of unit interval waveforms X m .

At S a target is selected for calculating the edge timing distribution from among the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m obtained at S. The selection mode may be a mode for selecting only the unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges a mode for selecting only the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges or a mode for selecting all of the unit interval waveforms X m .

If the mode used at S is a mode selecting only the unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges a at S the unit interval waveform group selecting section selects only the unit interval waveforms X m having rising edges from among the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m obtained at S to generate the unit interval waveform group at S.

On the other hand if the mode used at S is a mode selecting only the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges or for selecting all of the unit interval waveforms X m b at S the unit interval waveform group selecting section selects only the unit interval waveforms X m having falling edges from among the plurality of unit interval waveforms X m obtained at S to generate the unit interval waveform group at S. At S the waveform inverting section inverts the waveform of the group of unit interval waveforms having falling edges.

At step S the aggregate value calculating section adds the logic values of the unit interval waveforms X m which are selected by the unit interval waveform group selecting section at S according to the mode at each ordinal rank after division m to obtain the aggregate waveform X m . At S the difference calculating section differentiates the aggregate waveform X m to obtain the differential waveform X m . The differential waveform X m can be obtained by calculating the amount of change in the aggregate waveform X m for each equivalent sampling time interval Te for example. The amount of change in the aggregate waveform X m can be obtained from the differences between the aggregate values of the aggregate waveform X m at each ordinal rank m and the aggregate values of the aggregate waveform X m 1 at each ordinal rank m 1 adjacent to a certain ordinal rank m for example.

At S the statistical value calculating section calculates the statistical value of the edge timing distribution based on the differential waveform X m obtained at S. The statistical value of the edge timing distribution may be the average value E the standard deviation TJ the maximum value T the minimum value T or the peak to peak value TJof the edge timing distribution. Lastly at S the skew evaluating section calculates the skew as the difference between the average value Eof the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and the average value Eof the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and ends the process.

At S in the present embodiment the identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section generates the group of identical data sequence unit interval waveforms each having immediately prior data sequences that are identical to the data sequence immediately prior to the edge being measured. The identical data sequence unit interval waveform group can be generated as described hereinafter for example. First the reconfigured waveform X i is divided into bit periods. The identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section then selects a specific edge to be measured from among the edges in the signal under measurement . The identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section selects only the unit interval waveforms having the same data sequence for L bits immediately prior thereto as that of the specific edge from among all of the unit interval waveforms and extracts the selected unit waveforms. In this way the data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section can generate the group of identical data sequence unit interval waveforms each having immediately prior data sequences that are identical to the data sequence immediately prior to the edge being measured.

From S to S the edge timing distribution and the average value of the edge timing distribution are calculated for each unit interval waveform included in the identical data sequence unit interval waveform group obtained at S in the same manner as the process from S to S. In this way the average value of the edge timing of the specific edge can be calculated. The average value of the edge timing for each of the plurality of edges in the signal under measurement can be calculated by the process from S to S as shown above. The process from S to S may be performed for all of the edges in the signal under measurement .

At S the skew calculating section may obtain the skew by calculating the difference between the average value of the edge timing of the specific edge of the signal under measurement and the average value of the edge timing of the corresponding specific edge of the signal under measurement obtained at S. In this way the error between the timing of the specific edge and the ideal edge timing can be calculated. The skew calculating section may obtain the skew through a variety of comparison combinations between any one of the statistical values of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement and any one of the statistical values of the edge timing distribution of the signal under measurement .

The skew calculating section may calculate the skew between a plurality of edges in the signal under measurement and a plurality of edges in the signal under measurement if an edge timing distribution is desired for a plurality of edges. In this way the skew calculating section can generate a skew sequence by arranging the skew values in a time series. The skew calculating section may obtain the skew by calculating the statistical value of this skew sequence. The skew calculating section may calculate an RMS value as the statistical value. The skew evaluating section outputs the skew obtained by the skew calculating section and ends the process.

The present embodiment describes an example using the identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section instead of the unit interval waveform group selecting section but both the identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section and the unit interval waveform group selecting section may also be used. Instead of the identical data sequence unit interval waveform group selecting section a prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section may be used that selects unit interval waveforms generated by the unit interval waveform generating section at prescribed bit intervals in the signal under measurement or the signal under measurement . The aggregate value calculating section may add the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having falling edges that are inverted by the waveform inverting section to the sample values of the unit interval waveforms having rising edges for each prescribed bit unit interval waveform in the group selected by the prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section. Furthermore the skew measurement apparatus may include both the prescribed bit unit interval waveform group selecting section and the unit interval waveform group selecting section .

The above description discloses a skew measurement method including the steps of sampling each of a plurality of signal under measurement having a cycle T shaping reconfigured waveforms having the cycle T by rearranging the order of the sample values of each signal under measurement obtained at the sampling step generating timing distributions of a portion of the edges in the reconfigured waveform of each signal under measurement and calculating the skew between the signals under measurement being compared based on the timing distribution of each signal under measurement. Furthermore a skew measurement method is disclosed for at the sampling step described above sampling each signal under measurement a certain number of times N while the signal under measurement having the cycle T repeats for M cycles where M and N are coprime. Yet further a skew measurement method is disclosed for at the reconfiguring step described above rearranging the order of the sample values obtained at the sampling step to have reconfigured ordinal ranks i by inputting the initial ordinal ranks k into the expression i k M mod N where k is expressed by integers from 0 to N 1 and using these rearranged sample values to shape reconfigured waveforms having the cycle T.

The signal generator generates the test signal . The frequency characteristic adjusting section may adjust the frequency characteristic of the test signal to decrease the skew of the output signal in accordance with the skew of the output signal measured by the signal measuring section . The frequency characteristic adjusting section may adjust the frequency characteristic of the test signal according to the skew indicated by notification from the skew notification section . For example if the skew indicated by the notification from the skew notification section is greater than a prescribed value the frequency characteristic adjusting section adjusts an equalizer not shown to enhance the high frequency component of the test signal . Each sampling section of the skew measurement apparatus samples the output signal or the output signal a certain number of times N while the output signal being sampled repeats for M cycles where M and N are coprime. The skew notification section notifies the signal generating section concerning the skew of the output signal or the output signal which is the statistical value calculated by the statistical value calculating sections of the skew measurement apparatus .

The host controller is connected to the RAM and is also connected to the CPU and graphic controller accessing the RAM at a high transfer rate. The CPU operates to control each section based on programs stored in the ROM and the RAM . The graphic controller acquires image data generated by the CPU or the like on a frame buffer disposed inside the RAM and displays the image data in the display apparatus . Alternatively the graphic controller may internally include the frame buffer storing the image data generated by the CPU or the like.

The input output controller connects the hard disk drive serving as a relatively high speed input output apparatus the communication interface and the CD ROM drive to the host controller . The hard disk drive stores the programs and data used by the CPU . The communication interface is connected to a network communication apparatus to receive the programs or the data. The CD ROM drive reads the programs and data from a CD ROM and provides the read information to the hard disk drive and the communication interface via the RAM .

The input output controller is connected to the ROM and is also connected to the flexible disk drive and the input output chip serving as a relatively high speed input output apparatus. The ROM stores a boot program performed when the skew measurement apparatus starts up a program relying on the hardware of the skew measurement apparatus and the like. The flexible disk drive reads the programs or data from a flexible disk and supplies the read information to the hard disk drive and the communication interface via the RAM . The input output chip connects the flexible disk drive to each of the input output apparatuses via a parallel port a serial port a keyboard port a mouse port or the like.

The programs performed by the CPU are stored on a recording medium such as the flexible disk the CD ROM or an IC card and are provided by the user. The programs stored on the recording medium may be compressed or uncompressed. The programs are installed on the hard disk drive from the recording medium are read by the RAM and are performed by the CPU . The programs performed by the CPU cause the skew measurement apparatus to function as the sampling section the waveform reconfiguring section the distribution generating section and the statistical value calculating section described in relation to .

The programs shown above may be stored in an external storage medium. In addition to the flexible disk and the CD ROM an optical recording medium such as a DVD or PD a magneto optical medium such as an MD a tape medium a semiconductor memory such as an IC card or the like can be used as the recording medium. Furthermore a storage apparatus such as a hard disk or a RAM disposed in a server system connected to the Internet or a specialized communication network may be used as the storage medium and the programs may be provided to the skew measurement apparatus via the network.

The jitter calculating section includes the waveform processing section and may also include a ideal edge timing calculating section an error sequence generating section an error sequence statistical value calculating section and a Fourier transform section . The error sequence generating section may generate an error sequence obtained by arranging in a time series the errors between the expected values of the edge timing distribution calculated by the statistical value calculating section and the ideal edge timing calculated by the ideal edge timing calculating section . The error sequence statistical value calculating section may calculate the statistical value of the error sequence. The Fourier transform section may calculate the frequency component of the error sequence by performing a Fourier transform of the error sequence. If the errors included in the error sequence are not spaced uniformly on the time axis the Fourier transform section may interpolate the jitter value at a bit boundary having no jitter value based on the previous and subsequent jitter values to generate the error sequence in which the errors are spaced uniformly on the time axis and then perform the Fourier transform of the thus generated error sequence.

As a specific example the jitter measurement apparatus is provided with a sampling section that samples a signal under measurement having a cycle T for a certain number of cycles N while the signal under measurement repeats for M cycles where M and N are coprime a waveform reconfiguring section that rearranges the order of the sample values of the signal under measurement sampled by the sampling section to have reconfigured ordinal ranks i by inputting the initial ordinal ranks k into the expression i k M mod N where k is expressed by integers from 0 to N 1 and that uses these rearranged sample values to shape a reconfigured waveform having the cycle T a distribution generating section that generates timing distributions of the edges in the reconfigured waveform and a statistical value calculating section that calculates the statistical value of the timing distribution of the signal under measurement.

As shown in the rise fall time measurement apparatus is provided with the sampling section the sampling section the memory and a rise fall time evaluating section . The sampling section has a configuration identical to that of the sampling section except for having a different threshold value. The rise fall time measurement apparatus has a configuration identical to that of the skew measurement apparatus except that the rise fall time measurement apparatus measures a single signal under measurement with both the sampling section and the sampling section . The rise fall time evaluating section includes the waveform processing section and a rise fall time calculating section . The rise fall time evaluating section may include a plurality of waveform processing sections .

The waveform processing section may calculate the average value of the edge timings at the 20 level cross points of the signal under measurement and the average value of the edge timings at the 80 level cross points of the signal under measurement . The average value of the edge timings is an example of the statistical value of the edge timing distribution. The rise fall time calculating section can measure the rise time or the fall time of the signal under measurement by calculating the difference between the average value of the edge timings at the 20 level cross points of the signal under measurement and the average value of the edge timings at the 80 level cross points of the signal under measurement .

As a specific example the rise fall time measurement apparatus is provided with sampling sections that respectively sample the signal under measurement with two different threshold values each sampling section sampling the signal under measurement for a certain number of cycles N while the signal under measurement having a cycle T that repeats for M cycles where M and N are coprime waveform reconfiguring sections that rearrange the order of the sample values of the signal under measurement sampled by the sampling sections to have reconfigured ordinal ranks i by inputting the initial ordinal ranks k into the expression i k M mod N where k is expressed by integers from 0 to N 1 and that use these rearranged sample values to shape a reconfigured waveform having the cycle T distribution generating sections that generate timing distributions of the edges in the reconfigured waveform for each threshold value and a calculating section that calculates the rise time or fall time of the signal under measurement based on the timing distributions for the threshold values.

While the embodiments of the present invention have been described the technical scope of the invention is not limited to the above described embodiments. It is apparent to persons skilled in the art that various alterations and improvements can be added to the above described embodiments. It is also apparent from the scope of the claims that the embodiments added with such alterations or improvements can be included in the technical scope of the invention.

As made clear from the above the embodiments of the present invention can be adopted to realize a skew measurement apparatus a skew measurement method a recording medium and a test apparatus for measuring the skew of a plurality of signals under measurement using a digital comparator such as a voltage comparator.

