---

title: Universal phosphoramidite for preparation of modified biomolecules and surfaces
abstract: Reagents useful for attaching biomolecules (e.g., proteins, oligonucleotides, and other biomolecules) to a surface, processes of attaching molecules to a surface to form modified surfaces using these reagents, and methods of detecting a target compound using these modified surfaces are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07829735&OS=07829735&RS=07829735
owner: Northwestern University
number: 07829735
owner_city: Evansion
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081027
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 982 794 filed Oct. 26 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL contract no. FA8650 06 C 7617. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention provides reagents useful for attaching biomolecules to a surface and methods of attaching biomolecules to a surface using the disclosed reagents.

Attachment of polypeptides proteins antibodies oligonucleotides lipids carbohydrates and other biomolecules to surfaces has been achieved via a variety of means. Biomolecules attached to surfaces are useful in a variety of applications e.g. purification interaction studies diagnosis and development of therapeutics. See e.g. U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0153357 and 2005 0037397 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

For oligonucleotides processes and reagents have been developed which allow for attachment of the oligonucleotide only at the 5 position. However new reagents and methods are needed which allow for more versatility in attaching a biomolecule to a surface for example attaching an oligonucleotide to a surface via its 3 end.

Disclosed herein are reagents suitable for attaching a biomolecule to a surface and methods of attaching a biomolecule to a surface using a disclosed reagent. More specifically a reagent of formula I is disclosed 

Another aspect of the invention provides a method of modifying a biomolecule comprising admixing the biomolecule and a compound of formula I as disclosed herein to form a modified biomolecule having a formula IIA or formula IIB 

Yet another aspect provides a method of preparing a modified surface comprising contacting a surface with a modified biomolecule as disclosed herein under conditions that permit modification of the surface to form a modified surface wherein the modified surface has a formula IIIA or formula IIIB 

In some embodiments the surface comprises gold or glass having a moiety compatible with attaching the compound of formula I to its surface e.g. a nucleophile or an azide . In some embodiments the method further comprises contacting the modified surface with a target compound under conditions that permit interaction between the biomolecule on the modified surface and the target compound wherein the interaction is detectable using an analytical technique selected from the group consisting of fluorescence radioisotope detection UV Vis spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. In some embodiments the target compound comprises an antibody or an oligonucleotide.

Still another aspect provides a method of preparing a compound of formula I as disclosed herein comprising

In some embodiments the method further comprises admixing a compound of formula VI and an acid to form a compound of formula IV 

Disclosed herein are reagents useful for modifying biomolecules methods of preparing these reagents methods of modifying a biomolecule and methods of modifying a surface using modified biomolecules. More particularly disclosed herein are compounds of formula I 

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a linear or branched saturated hydrocarbon group containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms preferably 1 to 10 carbon atoms and more preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Nonlimiting examples of alkyl moieties include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl t butyl octyl amyl and the like.

As used herein the term aryl refers to an aromatic moiety generally containing 6 to 30 carbon atoms and can include 1 to 4 heteroatoms i.e. N O or S . An aryl group can contain a single aromatic ring or multiple aromatic rings either fused together directly linked or indirectly linked such that the different aromatic rings are bound to a common group such as a methylene or ethylene moiety . Preferred aryl groups contain 6 to 20 carbon atoms and particularly preferred aryl groups contain 6 to 12 carbon atoms. Nonlimiting examples of aryl groups containing one aromatic ring or two or more fused or linked aromatic rings include phenyl naphthyl biphenyl diphenyl ether diphenylamine benzophenone and the like. Aryl groups can optionally be substituted with one or more substituent groups. Nonlimiting examples of substituent groups include halo nitro cyano linear or branched alkyl linear or branched alkenyl aryl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl amino amido carboxylate and hydroxy.

The term haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group substituted with one or more halogen substitutents such as fluoro chloro bromo and or iodo.

The term hydroxyl protecting group refers to a moiety that can be used to mask a hydroxyl group under certain reaction conditions in order to avoid modification or alteration of that hydroxyl protecting group but can be removed to expose the hydroxyl group under other conditions. Generally protecting groups are disclosed in Greene et al. 4th Ed. John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 2007. Nonlimiting examples of hydroxyl protecting groups include benzyl paramethoxybenzyl dimethoxytrityl trityl methoxymethyl benzyloxymethyl and silyl ethers e.g. t butyldimethylsilyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl tri isopropyl silyl and diphenylmethylsilyl.

Sulfonyl reagents RSOY are chosen to provide the desired R group in the compound of formula I . Y is a leaving group typically a halo but can be any suitable leaving group known in the art which allows for formation of a compound of formula VI .

Acidic conditions for formation of compounds of formula IV typically are mildly acidic pH of about 4 to about 6.5 but can be more strongly acidic pH of about 2 to about 4 . Acidic conditions alternatively can be aprotic such as an admixture of a compound of formula VI with a Lewis acid e.g. metal chlorides such as AlCl .

The protecting group reagent will depend upon the protecting group chosen. For example when PG is a silyl ether the corresponding silyl chloride can be admixed with the compound of formula VI to form a compound of formula V . Alternatively when PG is a dimethoxytrityl dimethoxytrityl chloride is admixed with the compound of formula VI to form a compound of formula V . Choice of appropriate protecting group reagents is based upon the desired protecting group of a compound of formula V or I and is within the knowledge of a person of skill in the art. Preferably the protecting group reagent is admixed with the compound of formula IV under conditions which permit reaction of the protecting group reagent and the primary hydroxyl group rather than the secondary hydroxyl group either selectively or predominantly. However if the protected secondary hydroxyl group is formed it can be separated from the compound of formula V by known techniques.

Conversion of a compound of formula V to a compound of formula I proceeds via formation of the phosphoramidite. A phosphoramidite reagent of formula NC CH P NRR is admixed with a compound of formula V to form the compound of formula I where n is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 and Rand Rare independently hydrogen or alkyl. The conditions for performing this reaction are disclosed in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 415 732 5 324 831 and 6 136 568 each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The compounds of formula I can be used to modify a wider range of biomolecules than previously known methods. Because the compounds of formula I have two functional groups which can be used to modify a biomolecule of interest a wider range of functionalities on biomolecules and surfaces can be modified. For example the biomolecule can be modified using the hydroxyl group of the compound of formula I to form a compound of formula IIB or using the phosphoramidite functional group of the compound of formula I to form a compound of formula IIA . Thus biomolecules which can be functionalized via a hydroxyl group or a phosphoramidite can be modified using the disclosed compounds of formula I .

The compounds of formula I can be used as a means to modify a surface with a biomolecule. Non limiting examples of surfaces which can be modified using the disclosed compounds and useful in the disclosed methods include a thin film a nanoparticle and a nanoparticle on an otherwise inert surface.

Other nonlimiting examples of suitable surfaces include but are not limited to glass slides or other glass surfaces polymer films laminates polymeric microparticles including paramagnetic microparticles metal and metal oxide surfaces computer chips such as silicon chips natural and synthetic membranes and other silica based and plastic surfaces. In some cases wherein the surface is glass the glass may be treated with compound having a functional group such as an amine carboxylate thiol hydroxyl or anhydride which provides a functional group capable of reaction with the compound of formula IIA or IIB . Other surfaces can be similarly modified to provide a functional group to which the compound of formula I IIA or IIB can be attached. If the surface includes a gold micro or nanoparticle surface the surface may be modified with an functionalized alkylthiol to provide the appropriate functional group. Other functional groups may be introduced to the surface to provide e.g. amines alcohols carboxylic acids thiols sulfonic acids and the like to the surface which allow for modification with the compound of formula I IIA and or IIB to form e.g. the compound of formula IIIA or IIIB .

Amination hydroxylation carboxylation and other modification of a surface such as a polymeric surface can be accomplished using corona discharge or a plasma glow discharge. Such methods are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 355 270 6 140 127 and 6 053 171 each of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

Polymeric beads or surfaces can be for example polystyrene polyethylene polybutylene polypropylene polymerized mixed olefins polyterpene polyisoprene polyvinyltoluene poly methylstyrene poly o methylstyrene poly m methylstyrene poly p methylstyrene poly dimethylphenylene oxide polyurethane polyvinyl chloride or mixtures thereof.

Methods for modifying a gold surface to attach functional groups such as those in compounds of formula IIA and or IIB are known in the art e.g. in U.S. Patent Publications 2006 0051798 2006 0040286 2005 0037397 2004 0131843 2004 0110220 2004 0086897 2004 0072231 2004 0038255 2003 0207296 2003 0180783 2003 0148282 2003 0143538 2003 0129608 2003 0124528 2003 0113740 2003 0087242 2003 0068622 2003 0059777 2003 0054358 2003 0049631 2003 0049630 2003 0044805 2003 0022169 2002 0192687 2002 0182613 2002 0182611 2002 0177143 2002 0172953 2002 0164605 2002 0160381 2002 0155462 2002 0155461 2002 0155459 2002 0155458 2002 0155442 2002 0146720 2002 0137072 2002 0137071 2002 0137070 2002 0137058 2002 0127574 each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

As used herein the term biomolecule refers to a molecule having a functionality that can be modified using a reagent of formula I . Typically the biomolecule is isolated but can be in a mixture containing other molecules which do not interfere with the modification of the biomolecule. Examples of functionality on a biomolecule include an alcohol moiety thiol moiety carboxylate thiocarboxylate and amine. Non limiting examples of classes of biomolecules include polynucleotides polypeptides lipids and carbohydrates.

As used herein the term polynucleotide refers to a single stranded polynucleotide of nucleobases. The term nucleobase as used herein is as defined in U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 833. Polynucleotides can be either natural or non natural or synthesized. Methods of making polynucleotides of a predetermined sequence are well known. See e.g. Sambrook et al. 2nd ed. 1989 and F. Eckstein ed. 1st Ed. Oxford University Press New York 1991 . Solid phase synthesis methods are preferred for both polyribonucleotides and polydeoxyribonucleotides the well known methods of synthesizing DNA are also useful for synthesizing RNA . Polyribonucleotides and polydeoxyribonucleotides can also be prepared enzymatically.

In various aspects the polynucleotide is an oligonucleotide. Oligonucleotides can have up to about 1000 nucleobases up to about 700 nucleobases up to about 500 nucleobases or up to about 200 nucleobases. Other specific oligonucleotides include but are not limited to about 5 to about 100 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 90 nucleotides in length. about 5 to about 80 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 70 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 60 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 50 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 45 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 40 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 35 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 30 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 25 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 20 nucleotides in length about 5 to about 15 nucleotides in length or about 5 to about 10 nucleotides in length. Oligonucleotides include DNA oligonucleotides and RNA oligonucleotides.

Polypeptides include proteins and antibodies. Proteins include naturally occurring proteins i.e. proteins found in nature synthetic proteins i.e. proteins not found in nature proteins that are partially naturally occurring and partially synthetic and fragments of each. Analogs of naturally occurring proteins are contemplated in the present invention including polypeptides with modified glycosylation polypeptides without glycosylation unglycosylated . As used herein analogs refers to an amino acid sequence that has insertions deletions or substitutions relative to the parent sequence while still substantially maintaining the biological activity of the parent sequence as determined using biological assays known to one of skill in the art. The biomolecules and modified biomolecules as used herein may also include derivatives of naturally occurring or analog polypeptides which have been chemically modified for example to attach water soluble polymers e.g. pegylated radionuclides or other diagnostic or targeting or therapeutic moieties.

Exemplary classes proteins include hormones cytokines hematopoietic factors growth factors antiobesity factors trophic factors anti inflammatory factors receptors or soluble receptors and enzymes.

Herein the term antibody is used in the broadest sense and includes fully assembled antibodies monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies including bispecific antibodies antibody fragments that can bind an antigen including Fab F ab F single chain antibodies diabodies and recombinant peptides comprising the foregoing as long as they exhibit the desired biological activity. Multimers or aggregates of intact molecules and or fragments including chemically derivatized antibodies are contemplated. Antibodies of any isotype class or subclass including IgG IgM IgD IgA and IgE IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA1 and IgA2 or any allotype are contemplated. Different isotypes have different effector functions for example IgG1 and IgG3 isotypes have antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC activity. Modification of synthetic antibodies is contemplated including for example and without limitation substitution addition and deletion variants that maintain metal ion binding capacity through Fregion interaction. The term variant when used in connection with antibodies refers to a polypeptide sequence of an antibody that contains at least one natural or non natural amino acid substitution deletion addition or insertion in the variable region or the portion equivalent to the variable region provided that the variant retains the desired binding affinity or biological activity. In addition the antibodies of the invention may have amino acid modifications in the constant region to modify effector function of the antibody including half life or clearance ADCC and or CDC activity. Such modifications can enhance pharmacokinetics or enhance the effectiveness of the antibody in treating cancer for example. See Shields et al. J. Biol. Chem. 276 9 6591 6604 2001 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In the case of IgG1 modifications to the constant region particularly the hinge or CH2 region may increase or decrease effector function including ADCC and or CDC activity. In other embodiments an IgG2 constant region is modified to decrease antibody antigen aggregate formation. In the case of IgG4 modifications to the constant region particularly the hinge region may reduce the formation of half antibodies. The term derivative refers to a molecule that is covalently modified by conjugation to therapeutic or diagnostic agents labeling and covalent polymer attachment. Derivatives of the invention will retain the binding properties of underivatized molecules of the invention. Still other antibody derivatives include antibody fusion proteins comprising an Fregion and additional amino acid sequences the additional amino acid sequence having a protein binding property. Such antibody fusion proteins are in one aspect produced by deletion of one or more antibody amino acid residues and addition of one or more other amino acid residues. For example and without limitation a chimeric antibody includes all or part of an Fregion from one antibody and all or part of an antigen binding Fregion from a second antibody. As another example an antibody fusion protein includes all or part of an antibody Fregion and amino acids from any source which binds a binding partner possesses enzymatic activity or possesses any other biological property or activity. Accordingly additional amino acids and sequences comprising them are naturally occurring or synthetic a full length protein a protein fragment a peptide and or a derivative thereof as described above. Peptibodies are also contemplated. The term peptibody refers to a molecule comprising an antibody Fdomain attached to at least one peptide. The production of peptibodies is generally described in PCT publication WO 00 24782 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The term carbohydrate as used herein refers to a molecule having one or more sugar residues. Multiple sugar residues of a carbohydrate can be linked in either a straight chain or branched chain configuration. Carbohydrates composed of multiple sugar residues can vary in the type and location of the linkage between each residue. Sugar residues can include but are not limited to glucose galactose fucose mannose erythrose threose and sialic acid. Sugar residues also can be acetylated phosphorylated or sulfated by chemically processes well known in the art. A carbohydrate also can be chemically bonded to other molecules such as a lipid glycolipid protein glycoprotein proteoglycan glucosaminoglycan or an organic molecule. Carbohydrates can be naturally occurring or synthetically prepared.

The term lipid as used herein refers to an organic molecule that includes fatty acids glycerides glycerol derived lipids non glyceride lipids including steroids phospholipids prostaglandins terpenes waxes which are generally solid at room temperature and complex lipids such as lipoproteins and glycolipids. Lipids are generally liquid at room temperature and are more soluble in nonpolar solvents than in polar solvents. Fatty acids are long unbranched monocarboxylic acids containing from about 10 to about 30 carbon atoms. Glycerides are lipid esters of the glycerol and possess a three carbon backbone of glycerol. Esterification may occur at one two or all three OH locations producing monoglycerides diglycerides and triglycerides respectively. The fatty acid groups can be the same or different and may be saturated or unsaturated.

The disclosed modified surfaces can be used in a variety of assays including detection assays. Such detection assays are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 098 320 7 063 946 6 986 989 6 974 669 6 969 761 6 962 786 6 861 221 6 858 387 6 828 432 6 827 979 6 812 334 6 777 186 6 773 884 6 767 702 6 750 016 6 730 269 6 720 411 6 720 147 6 709 825 6 682 895 6 673 548 6 645 721 6 582 921 6 506 564 6 495 324 and 6 361 944 each of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

The choice of biomolecule to modify the surface will depend upon the target compound and such choice is readily within the skill of one in the art. For example for detection of an oligonucleotide target compound the biomolecule on the modified surface can be a complementary oligonucleotide to the target compound and for detection of an antigen the surface of the composite particle can be modified with an appropriate antibodies. Conversely for the detection of an antigen the surface can be modified with an appropriate antibody.

As used herein the term target compound refers to a compound of interest which is detectable using the modified surface disclosed herein. Typically the target compound is an oligonucleotide but can be any compound of interest which is detectable by the disclosed modified surface. Nonlimiting examples of target compounds include polynucleotides antigens antibodies polypeptides ionic compounds metals metal ions and ligands.

In various aspects the target compound is an oligonucleotide which is 100 complementary to an oligonucleotide of the modified surface i.e. a perfect match while in other aspects the oligonucleotide is at least meaning greater than or equal to about 95 complementary to the target compound over the length of the oligonucleotide at least about 90 at least about 85 at least about 80 at least about 75 at least about 70 at least about 65 at least about 60 at least about 55 at least about 50 at least about 45 at least about 40 at least about 35 at least about 30 at least about 25 at least about 20 complementary to the target compound over the length of the oligonucleotide to the extent that the oligonucleotide is able to achieve the desired degree of inhibition of a target gene product.

In various embodiments the target compound comprises at least two portions. The lengths of these portions and the distance s if any between them are chosen so that when the modified surface interacts with the target compound a detectable change occurs. These lengths and distances can be determined empirically and will depend on the type of surface used and its size and the type of electrolyte which will be present in solutions used in the assay. Also when a target compound is to be detected in the presence of other oligonucleotides the portions of the target to which the oligonucleotide s on oligonucleotide modified surface is to bind must be chosen so that they contain a sufficiently unique sequence such that detection of the nucleic acid will be specific. These techniques are well known in the art and can be found for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 986 989 6 984 491 6 974 669 6 969 761 6 962 786 6 903 207 6 902 895 6 878 814 6 861 221 6 828 432 6 827 979 6 818 753 6 812 334 6 777 186 6 773 884 6 767 702 6 759 199 6 750 016 6 740 491 6 730 269 6 726 847 6 720 411 6 720 147 6 709 825 6 682 895 6 677 122 6 673 548 6 645 721 6 635 311 6 610 491 6 582 921 6 506 564 6 495 324 6 417 340 and 6 361 944 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In embodiments where the target compound comprises an oligonucleotide the detectable change that occurs upon hybridization of a target compound on an oligonucleotide modified composite particle to the target can be a color change formation of aggregates of the oligonucleotide modified composite particles and or a precipitation of the aggregated oligonucleotide modified surface. The color changes can be observed with the naked eye or spectroscopically. The formation of aggregates of the oligonucleotide modified surface can be observed by electron microscopy by nephelometry or the eye. The precipitation of the aggregated oligonucleotide modified surface can be observed with the naked eye or microscopically. Preferred are changes observable with the naked eye. Particularly preferred is a color change observable with the naked eye.

In certain embodiments the target compound can be detected due to its association with the modified surface. In embodiments where the modified surface is magnetic the complex of target compound and modified surface can be removed from a solution by application of a magnetic field. The target compound can be disassociated from the modified surface and detected using analytic techniques such as for example liquid chromatography gas chromatography mass spectrometry gel electrophoresis capillary electrophoresis nuclear magnetic resonance PCR and the like.

Examples of the uses of the method for identifying a target compound include but are not limited to the diagnosis and or monitoring of viral diseases e.g. human immunodeficiency virus hepatitis viruses herpes viruses cytomegalovirus and Epstein Barr virus bacterial diseases e.g. tuberculosis Lyme disease infections infections infections sexually transmitted diseases e.g. gonorrhea inherited disorders e.g. cystic fibrosis Duchene muscular dystrophy phenylketonuria sickle cell anemia and cancers e.g. genes associated with the development of cancer in forensics in DNA sequencing for paternity testing for cell line authentication for monitoring gene therapy and for many other purposes.

In various embodiments the detection of a target compound is used in conjunction with drug discovery or DNA or oligonucleotide interacting compounds e.g. intercalators and binders . A target compound can be assessed for its ability to specifically bind to a known biomolecule e.g. polynucleotide polypeptide carbohydrate or lipid which is bound to the surface disclosed herein. The target compounds that bind or interact can be identified and isolated by applying a magnetic field when the surface is magnetic. Upon disassociation from the surface the target compound can be analyzed using common analytic techniques.

Examples of one class of target compounds that can be detected by the method of the present invention includes but is not limited to genes e.g. a gene associated with a particular disease viral RNA and DNA bacterial DNA fungal DNA cDNA mRNA RNA and DNA fragments oligonucleotides synthetic oligonucleotides modified oligonucleotides single stranded and double stranded nucleic acids natural and synthetic nucleic acids and the like. The target compound may be isolated by known methods or may be detected directly in cells tissue samples biological fluids e.g. saliva urine blood serum solutions containing PCR components solutions containing large excesses of oligonucleotides or high molecular weight DNA and other samples as also known in the art. See e.g. Sambrook et al. 2nd ed. 1989 and B. D. Hames and S. J. Higgins Eds. 1 IRL Press New York 1995 .

In other aspects the target compound is a member of a specific binding pair which comprise nucleic acid oligonucleotide peptide nucleic acid polypeptide antibody antigen carbohydrate protein peptide amino acid hormone steroid vitamin drug virus polysaccharides lipids lipopolysaccharides glycoproteins lipoproteins nucleoproteins oligonucleotides antibodies immunoglobulins albumin hemoglobin coagulation factors peptide and protein hormones non peptide hormones interleukins interferon cytokines peptides comprising a tumor specific epitope cells cell surface molecules microorganisms fragments portions components or products of microorganisms small organic molecules nucleic acids and oligonucleotides metabolites of or antibodies to any of the above substances.

All reactions were carried out under an inert atmosphere of nitrogen. Anhydrous pyridine was purchased from Fluka and used as received. Deuterated solvents were purchased from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories Inc. and Aldrich and used as received. All other chemicals were used as received from Aldrich compound VI or prepared according to literature procedures compounds VI IV have appeared in the cited Japanese patent in the original disclosure . H P NMR and CH NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian Mercury 300 MHz FT NMR spectrometer at 300 MHz and 75.5 MHz respectively and referenced to residual proton resonances in deuterated solvents. All chemical shifts are reported in ppm. Electron ionization mass spectra EIMS were recorded on a Fisions VG 70 250 SE mass spectrometer. Elemental analyses were performed by Quantitative Technologies Inc. Whitehouse N.J. USA .

Synthesis of 2 3 Dihydroxypropyl tosylate IV 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl p toluenesulfonate VI 3.3 g was dissolved in 80 acetic acid 5 mL and allowed to react at 55 C. for 5 hours. The mixture was lyophilized to obtain a clear oil that slowly crystallized. The quantitative removal of the isopropylidine protecting group was verified by H NMR. 300 MHz CDCl DO . The proton NMR agreed well with previously published results.

Synthesis of 1 O Tosyl 3 O 4 4 dimethoxytrityl glycerol V 2 3 Dihydroxypropyl tosylate IV 525 mg 2.13 mmol 1 eq. was dissolved in pyridine 20 mL anhydrous and cooled to 0 C. 4 4 Dimethoxytrityl chloride 758 mg 2.24 mmol 1.05 eq. was added in 3 portions over 2 h and the reaction solution was allowed to warm up to rt. After 2 h sat. aq. NaHCO 75 mL was added to the reaction mixture followed by extraction with CHCl 3 75 mL . The extract was dried with NaSO filtered concentrated in vacuo and dried by coevaporation with toluene 3 . Purification by flash column chromatography SiO 1 2 97 NEt EtO CHCl gave V as a white powder 770.6 mg 66 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl DO 7.74 d J 8.4 Hz 2H arom. 7.36 7.21 m 11H arom. 6.82 d J 5.1 Hz 4H arom. 4.10 3.98 m 2H CHOTs 3.92 3.89 m 1H CHOH 3.78 s 6H OCH 3.13 3.11 m 2H CHODMT 2.44 s 3H CHCH CH NMR 75.5 MHz CDCl DO 159.3 145.8 145.3 136.1 133.1 130.6 129.6 128.44 128.41 127.5 127.4 113.7 86.9 71.8 69.3 64.1 55.8 22.0 MS EI m z. calcd for CHOS 548.1869. found 548.1867 M . elemental analysis calcd for CHOS C 67.86 H 5.88 found C 67.84 H 5.93.

Synthesis of 1 O Tosyl 3 O 4 4 dimethoxytrityl glycerol phosphoramidite I 1 O Tosyl 3 O 4 4 dimethoxytrityl glycerol X 526 mg 0.960 mmol was dissolved in 15 mL of anhydrous dichloromethane. 2 cyanoethyl N N N N tetraisopropylphosphoramidite 320 L 1 mmol was added followed by addition of 1 mL of a saturated 4 5 dicyanoimidazole solution 1.3 g 10 mL in acetonitrile. The mixture was allowed to react for three hours at room temperature after which it was extracted with 3 5 mL portions of 5 sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic layer was dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash chromatography SiO 1 99 NEt EtOAc gave I as a clear foam 700 mg 96 . P NMR 300 MHz CHXN 150 151 as a mixture of diasteriomers.

Synthesis of tosylated oligonucleotides Oligonucleotides were prepared via standard phosphoramidite synthesis using Ultramild reagents from Glen Research on 1 mole scale. For 3 tosyl functionalization the synthesis was started with a T support. 5 tosyl modification was introduced using a Universal Tosyl phosphoramidite I at 1 mM concentration in dry acetonitrile manually with 10 min. coupling time. The oligonucleotide was the cleaved from the support in concentrated ammonium hydroxide at 55 C. for 15 min. followed by 1.5 hours of standing at room temperature. Ammonium hydroxide was removed under a stream of nitrogen. The crude product was then purified by HPLC 0.03M triethylammonium acetate 95 CHCN 5 0.03M triethylammonium acetate using a 1 minute gradient at a flow rate of 3 mL min. on a reverse phase column. The oligonucleotide sequences modified were

MALDI was performed using dihydroxyacetophenone as matrix. Since the matrix is acidic the DMT group falls off during MALDI analysis. The presence of DMT was confirmed via HPLC as isolated.

The foregoing describes and exemplifies the invention but is not intended to limit the invention defined by the claims which follow. All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the materials and methods of this invention have been described in terms of specific embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the materials and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the methods described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved.

