---

title: RFID-based enterprise intelligence
abstract: An “RFID-Based Inference Platform” provides various techniques for using RFID tags in combination with other enterprise sensors to track users and objects, infer their interactions, and provide these inferences for enabling further applications. Specifically, observations are collected from combinations of RFID tag reads and other enterprise sensors including electronic calendars, user presence identifiers, cardkey access logs, computer logins, etc. Given sufficient observations, the RFID-Based Inference Platform automatically differentiates between tags associated with or affixed to people and tags affixed to objects. The RFID-Based Inference Platform then infers additional information including identities of people, ownership of specific objects, the nature of different “zones” in a workspace (e.g., private office versus conference room). These inferences are then used to enable various applications including object tracking, automated object ownership determinations, automated object cataloging, automated misplaced object alerts, video annotations, automated conference room scheduling, semi-automated object image catalogs, object interaction query systems, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07982609&OS=07982609&RS=07982609
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07982609
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
An RFID Based Inference Platform provides various techniques for enabling an enterprise intelligence system based on tracking of various interactions between users and objects and in particular to various techniques for using RFID tags in combination with other enterprise sensors and systems to track users and objects infer their interactions and provide these inferences for enabling further applications.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID is a well known electronic tagging technology that allows the detection and tracking of tags and consequently any objects that they are affixed to. An RFID tag typically comprises a passive transponder that responds with identifying information when energized remotely by an RFID reader. This ability to do remote detection and tracking coupled with the low cost of passive tags has led to the widespread adoption of RFID in the supply chain world. RFID is used to track the movement of goods through a supply chain whether it be pallets shipped between warehouses cases delivered to stores or items placed on the store shelves thereby optimizing inventory management and yielding significant cost savings.

RFID tags come in three types passive active and semi passive. Passive tags do not have any internal power supply. Instead they use the electric current induced in the tag s antenna by the incoming RF signal from a reader to power the tag s circuitry and transmit a response back to the reader. Such tags typically have a read range from about 10 cm up to a few meters. Active tags on the other hand have their own internal battery to power the circuitry and transmit a response using an arbitrary RF technology such as WiFi. Due to their internal battery active tags generally have a read range of hundreds of meters. Semi passive tags have their own power supply to power their circuitry and to help with reception but like passive tags they use the RF induced current for transmitting a response back to the reader.

In particular passive tags typically receive power through inductive or radiative coupling. Inductive coupling is used for powering LF low frequency 30 300 kHz and HF high frequency 220 MHz tags. Such tags receive power in the near field which refers to the region within a few wavelengths of the reader s antenna. A reader antenna generates a magnetic field inducing an electric current in the tag s antenna and charging a capacitor in the tag. Radiative coupling is used for UHF tags Ultra High Frequency above 100 MHz . In this case the tag antenna receives signals and energy from the electromagnetic field emitted by the reader in the far field the area beyond a few wavelengths.

RFID tags have been used for many purposes including retail product identification and anti theft devices. Further RFID based localization has been used to track tagged objects in and around RFID readers. Once such tracking systems uses a method to localize RFID tags using a mobile platform to automatically generate tag maps showing locations of objects such as people and robots in a general area. A related localization system provides techniques for finding locations of mostly static objects augmented with RFID tags by iteratively refining observations made from multiple locations and in different directions by a mobile RFID reader which is assumed to know its own location. This setup is integrated with a camera which allows the image to be annotated with the estimated locations of RFID tagged objects and displayed in real time.

Several scenarios in ubiquitous computing require automatic inferencing of what a person is doing or intends to do. In the past researchers have applied three main techniques to human activity inference computer vision active sensor beacons and passive RFID. While vision based inferencing techniques suffer from robustness and scalability problems active sensor beacons require batteries. Approaches based on passive RFID tags avoid these difficulties making them particularly attractive. Assuming that reliable detection of people object interactions is possible specific activities can be inferred from such interactions. For example using a sufficient number of RFID tags it can be detected that a person interacted with tea water and sugar. One possible inference from this interaction detection is that the person is trying to make tea. However while conventional RFID inferencing techniques can provide rich information about such interactions these conventional techniques tend to be either obtrusive or require non standard customized RFID tags or devices e.g. a special glove or bracelet to be worn by the user .

There has also been work on alternative unobtrusive techniques for detecting interaction with RFID tagged objects. One such technique uses variations in the response rate i.e. the fraction of read attempts sent by the RFID reader that are responded to by an RFID tag of individual tags and groups of tags to detect interaction. However it has been observed that there is typically a sharp drop off in the response rate from 100 down to 0 depending upon range from the reader to the tags making it hard to use response rate for detection.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In general an RFID Based Inference Platform as described herein provides various techniques that use responses from RFID tags for automatically inferring interactions between users and or objects where users and objects are collectively referred to as entities without the need to specifically identify the particular entities that are tagged. In various embodiments inferences are made by combining RFID data received by RFID readers from the RFID tags with information from various other enterprise sensors and systems. Examples of other enterprise sensors and systems include but are not limited to electronic calendar systems user presence systems security cameras WiFi networks cardkey access systems etc. The inferences are then used to enable a number of applications such as object tracking automated object ownership determinations automated object cataloging automated misplaced object alerts video annotations automated conference room scheduling semi automated object image catalogs interaction query systems etc.

The RFID Based Inference Platform assumes a setting where most people or some other object generally carried by the person such as an employee badge car keys cell phone etc. and objects are tagged with RFID tags and the coverage of RFID readers spans some or all of the workspace. Note that the use of passive RFID tags is assumed in order to minimize cost. However the interactive RFID reader can also use active and semi active RFID tags in any combination desired.

Thus given an environment covered by RFID readers where people and objects are tagged with RFID tags the RFID Based Inference Platform uses RFID data received by the RFID readers to make automatic inferences regarding objects and people. Note that RFID tags associated with people are generally referred to herein as person tags and RFID tags associated with objects are generally referred to herein as object tags. Further it should be noted that merely identifying a particular tag as either a person tag or as an object tag does not specifically identify the particular person e.g. John Smith or Jane Doe or the specific object e.g. book cell phone keys notebook computer etc. . However such specific identifications are possible in many cases depending upon the observations available to the RFID Based Inference Platform. Consequently that there is no requirement that tagged objects or people be specifically known i.e. that object tagging is systematically catalogued or that tagged objects present in a workplace even belong to the enterprise e.g. a user s personal mobile phone can be tagged .

In particular in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform bootstraps from a null state where no RFID information has been received to a state in all tags are automatically associated either with a person or with an object. In other words given nothing but a set of observations regarding RFID tag data also referred to herein as RFID events the RFID Based Inference Platform automatically determines which tags are person tags and which tags are object tags . In other words the RFID Based Inference Platform begins operation by receiving observations from a mass of undifferentiated tags. In various embodiments the observations made by the RFID Based Inference Platform also include inferences made based on information from other enterprise systems such as electronic calendars user presence information login systems etc. The RFID Based Inference Platform then automatically infers a range of information regarding those tags based on an accumulation of observations over time.

For example given sufficient observations from RFID readers and other available sensors the RFID Based Inference Platform is able to automatically differentiate between people tags and object tags learn the identities of people infer the ownership of objects by specific people learn the nature of different zones in a workspace e.g. private office versus conference room and perform other such inferences.

More specifically since RFID data by itself only provides very limited information basically just the presence or absence of a particular tag in a particular zone relative to one or more RFID readers the RFID Based Inference Platform also leverages information from other enterprise systems or sensors e.g. calendar presence cardkey access computer login information etc. By combining information from these diverse sources the RFID Based Inference Platform records all tag level events in a raw database also referred to herein as an RFID event database . The RFID Based Inference Platform then uses various inference algorithms to process these raw tag level events to infer events at the level of people objects and workspace zones. These inferred events are then stored in one or more databases also referred to herein as an inference database . Various applications can either poll these databases e.g. by running SQL queries or set up triggers to be notified of specific events of interest.

In view of the above summary it is clear that the RFID Based Inference Platform described herein provides various unique techniques for combining RFID events with information from other enterprise systems and sensors to make automated inferences about people objects workspaces and their interaction. These inferences are then used to enable a large number of inference based applications. In addition to the just described benefits other advantages of the RFID Based Inference Platform will become apparent from the detailed description that follows hereinafter when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing figures.

In the following description of the embodiments of the claimed subject matter reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the claimed subject matter may be practiced. It should be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the presently claimed subject matter.

Note that the following discussion assumes the use of passive RFID tags in order to minimize overall system cost. However both active and semi passive RFID tags and any combination thereof may also be used. Further both RFID tags and RFID readers are well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in detail herein.

In general an RFID Based Inference Platform as described herein provides various techniques that use response from RFID tags for automatically inferring interactions between users and or objects where users and objects are collectively referred to as entities without the need to specifically identify the particular entities that are tagged with RFID tags. Note that in some cases specific RFID tags may be associated with particular entities such as for example a known ID for the RFID tag of an employee badge . However as described in detail herein the RFID Based Inference Platform is able to operate successfully from an initial state in which some or all of the RFID tags are initially unknown or random . In various embodiments inferences are made by combining RFID tag data received by one or more RFID readers with information from various other enterprise sensors and systems. Examples of enterprise sensors and systems include but are not limited to electronic calendar systems user presence systems security cameras microphones WiFi networks etc.

For example by combining RFID events with information obtained from other enterprise systems such as a shared calendar the RFID Based Inference Platform is able to make a number of inferences automatically. One simple example of such inferences is that the RFID Based Inference Platform automatically differentiates between person tags and object tags i.e. RFID tags associated with people or objects respectfully and learns who the likely owner of a particular object is even if the specific identity of the person or object is unknown. The inferences are then used to enable a number of applications such as object tracking automated object ownership determinations automated object cataloging automated misplaced object alerts video annotations i.e. indexing of video based on when particular objects or persons were in or around a region captured by the video automated conference room scheduling semi automated object image catalogs interaction query systems etc.

Further there is no requirement that tagged objects be specifically known i.e. that object tagging is systematically catalogued or that tagged objects present in a workplace even belong to the enterprise e.g. a user s personal mobile phone can be tagged . In fact rather than requiring systematic cataloging of all objects and people in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform is capable of making all inferences automatically without requiring any human input. However even in settings where human input is available to specifically identify one or more tagged objects or people the inference techniques provided by the RFID Based Inference Platform can help catch errors e.g. incorrect ownership information for an object being recorded in a catalog.

Further it should also be noted that the discussion regarding the RFID Based Inference Platform provided herein generally focuses on applying RFID to an enterprise setting such as a corporate office or university department with many people any of which may be mobile or stationary at any given point in time. However the techniques described herein are applicable to other environments such as in a home a small business or in other public or private locations.

For example a typical environment in which the RFID Based Inference Platform would be useful is an enterprise setting such as a large business having large numbers of people. Such environments typically involve extensive interactions amongst people between people and objects and between people and workspaces. For instance people own objects such as books cell phones and laptops which they often carry around and sometimes misplace. The RFID Based Inference Platform provides a platform for tracking and inferring such interactions and then exposing these to the higher layers via APIs that allow various applications and services to interact with the inferred information. Thus the RFID Based Inference Platform raises the level of abstraction for applications in this domain beyond tag level events. In other words the RFID Based Inference Platform represents a form of mobile computing applied to non computing entities by automatically inferring interactions between people and or objects then providing those inferences to enable other applications.

Regardless of the particular environment the RFID Based Inference Platform assumes a setting where most people or some other object generally carried by the person such as an employee badge car keys cell phone etc. and objects are tagged with RFID tags and the coverage of RFID readers spans much of the workspace. Further since RFID by itself only provides very limited information basically just the presence or absence of a tag in a particular zone the RFID Based Inference Platform also leverages information from other enterprise systems e.g. calendar presence login information etc. By combining information from these diverse sources the RFID Based Inference Platform records all tag level events in a raw database. The RFID Based Inference Platform then uses various inference algorithms to process these raw tag level events to infer events at the level of people objects and workspace zones. These inferred events are then stored for future use. For example by storing the inferred events in one or more databases various applications can either poll these databases e.g. by running SQL queries or set up triggers to be notified of specific events of interest.

More specifically in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform makes inferences regarding tagged entities i.e. objects and or people without the need to specifically catalog tagged people and objects. These inferences are generally made by starting with a mass of undifferentiated tags and then automatically inferring a range of information based on an accumulation of observations over time. In fact given sufficient observations the RFID Based Inference Platform is able to automatically differentiate between people tags and object tags learn the identities of people infer the ownership of objects by people learn the nature of different zones in a workspace e.g. private office versus conference room and perform other such inferences.

Further it should be noted that merely identifying a particular tag as either a person tag or as an object tag does not specifically identify the particular person e.g. John Smith or Jane Doe or the specific object e.g. book cell phone keys notebook computer etc. . However such specific identifications are possible in many cases depending upon the observations available to the RFID Based Inference Platform. Consequently that there is no requirement that tagged objects or people be specifically known i.e. that object tagging is systematically catalogued or that tagged objects present in a workplace even belong to the enterprise e.g. a user s personal mobile phone can be tagged .

Mobility of people and objects over time is an important part of the inferences performed by the RFID Based Inference Platform. For example tags attached to people are more likely to move with less dependence on other tags than tags attached to objects. Likewise the owner of an object is likely to be the person who carries it around the most.

For example in the case of a misplaced object alert assume that a user typically carries her cell phone with her. Then if the user leaves her cell phone in some location monitored by the RFID Based Inference Platform an alert is automatically sent to the user email text message automated phone call announcement over an area intercom system etc. that informs the user when and where she left her cell phone. Note that there is no need for the RFID Based Inference Platform to know that the particular object is a cell phone. It is sufficient that the RFID Based Inference Platform has inferred ownership of the object for the particular user without necessarily knowing the identity of that user has inferred that the user and the object are generally co located and then tells the user when and where they left they left the object that they typically carry on their person. In the case where the nature of that object e.g. keys cell phone book etc. or the name of the person is specifically known this information can be provided with the misplaced object alert if desired.

Typically for purposes of security the RFID Based Inference Platform will be run by one or more central servers rather than by individual users. This includes the raw and processed databases i.e. tag level events and inferences respectively and the applications that consume the information contained in these databases. While such a model limits flexibility it greatly simplifies deployment issues specifically with regard to privacy. In this case individual user s are unable to access the RFID Based Inference Platform databases they are only presented with information that the centrally run application chooses to expose e.g. alerts regarding a user s own objects that have been misplaced. However it should be clear that there is no requirement to limit user access to particular elements or databases of the RFID Based Inference Platform and that any such limitations are merely provided for security or privacy purposes.

Further in various embodiments security issues are further addressed by employing a simple tag relabeling scheme to defeat any attempts to reconstruct the database surreptitiously say using input from rogue readers. While the enterprise itself will have access to potentially privacy sensitive data this is not fundamentally different from the present situation. For example in many countries the enterprise has legally sanctioned access to sensitive information such as the employees email and files largely in an unencrypted form and indeed also the ability to track user movements to an extent based on cardkey based access control which is often based on short range RFID to various physical spaces.

As noted above the RFID Based Inference Platform provides various techniques for combining RFID events with information from other enterprise systems and sensors to make automated inferences about people objects workspaces and their interaction. These inferences are then used to enable a large number of inference based applications. The processes summarized above are illustrated by the general system diagram of . In particular the system diagram of illustrates the interrelationships between program modules for implementing various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform as described herein. Furthermore while the system diagram of illustrates a high level view of various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform is not intended to provide an exhaustive or complete illustration of every possible embodiment of the RFID Based Inference Platform as described throughout this document.

In addition it should be noted that any boxes and interconnections between boxes that are represented by broken or dashed lines in represent alternate embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform described herein and that any or all of these alternate embodiments as described below may be used in combination with other alternate embodiments that are described throughout this document.

In general as illustrated by the processes enabled by the RFID Based Inference Platform begin operation by using a collection of RFID readers to read tad IDs of all RFID tags within range of those RFID readers. As discussed in further detail below one or more RFID tags having unique IDs are affixed to people or objects closely associated with people such as employee badges and to objects within range of one or more of the RFID readers. There is no need to initially indentify which tags are affixed to particular people or objects since as described in further detail below the RFID Based Inference Platform automatically differentiates between tags associated with or affixed to people and tags affixed to objects. Given this differentiation the RFID Based Inference Platform then infers additional information including identities of people ownership of specific objects the nature of different zones in a workspace e.g. private office versus conference room etc.

More specifically an event capture module also referred to herein as an event monitor periodically receives time stamped RFID tag data at regular and or irregular intervals from each of the RFID readers placed in various locations throughout some area of interest such as an office building a school a home a public location etc. . In various embodiments the RFID readers either automatically perform tag reads or perform tag reads at some interval directed by the event capture module . Note that identification of various zones covered by the RFID readers is not required since as described in further detail below the RFID Based Inference Platform automatically infers the nature of different zones covered the RFID readers in the workspace.

In addition to receiving RFID tag data from the RFID readers the event capture module also receives event data from other enterprise monitors or sensors throughout the workspace. Examples of other enterprise monitors include but are not limited to electronic calendar systems user presence systems security cameras microphones WiFi networks cardkey access systems smoke detectors fire alarms light switches etc. see Section 2.2.2 for additional discussion regarding enterprise monitors . Note that data received from the enterprise monitors is automatically time stamped either by the event capture module or by the enterprise monitor as applicable so that it can be correlated with the RFID tag data.

All event data received by the event capture module from both the RFID readers and the other enterprise monitors is stored to a raw RFID event database . An inference module also referred to herein as an inference engine then evaluates the RFID event database on an ongoing basis as more event data becomes available in order to infer particular properties or information relating to each of the unique tag IDs represented in the RFID event database. For example in various embodiments the inference module automatically differentiates between tags associated with or affixed to people and tags affixed to objects. The inference module then infers additional information including identities of people ownership of specific objects the nature of different zones in the workspace etc. see Section 2.3 for a detailed discussion of automated inferences .

Inferences made by the inference module are then stored to an inference database . Note that since inference may change over time as more observations of RFID tag data and enterprise monitor information becomes available inferences in the inference database may be periodically changed or updated. As noted above the inferences in the inference database includes differentiation between people tags associated with or affixed to people and object tags affixed to objects. The inference database also includes additional inferences such as identities of people associated with particular person tags ownership of specific objects relative to specific person tags the nature of different zones in the workspace etc.

In addition in various embodiments a user input module is provided to allow the user to directly interact with either or both the RFID event database and the inference database or to interact with the inference database via either the API module or one or more applications . For example in one embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform provides a semi automated object cataloging application that allows a user to add photographs of particular tagged objects captured via a camera to the RFID event database or some separate database linked to the RFID object database not shown .

In various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform exposes the inference database to one or more external applications via an API module . Note that as is well known to those skilled in the art an API is an application programming interface that generally provides a source code interface that an operating system library service application etc. uses to support requests to particular information made by various computer programs.

More specifically the API module provides a set of one or more APIs that allow various applications to access or interact with the inference database via database lookups and or database callbacks. See Section 2.2.6 and Section 2.6 for a detailed discussion of API implementation and programming models in the RFID Based Inference Platform . Various example of applications enabled by the RFID Based Inference Platform are described in further detail in Section 2.7. For example these applications include but are not limited to automated misplaced object alerts automated video annotation and indexing automated conference room booking semi automated image catalogs etc.

The above described program modules are employed for implementing various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform. As summarized above the RFID Based Inference Platform provides various techniques for combining RFID events with information from other enterprise systems and sensors to make automated inferences about people objects workspaces and their interaction. These inferences are then used to enable a large number of inference based applications.

The following sections provide a detailed discussion of the operation of various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform and of exemplary methods for implementing the program modules described in Section 1 with respect to . In particular the following sections describe examples and operational details of various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform including an operational overview of the RFID Based Inference Platform an architectural overview of the RFID Based Inference Platform exemplary algorithms for making automated inferences from RFID tag IDs and associated event data considerations for improving system reliability privacy considerations programming models for exposing inferences to external applications via APIs and exemplary applications for using inferences regarding RFID tag IDs.

In general the RFID Based Inference Platform acts to automatically combine RFID events with information from other enterprise systems and sensors to make automated inferences about people objects workspaces and their interaction. More specifically the RFID Based Inference Platform provides various techniques for using RFID tags in combination with other enterprise sensors to track users and objects and infer their interactions. Additional inferences are then made using this data to infer specific identities of people ownership of specific objects the nature of different zones in a workspace e.g. private office versus conference room . These inferences are then used to enable various applications including object tracking automated object ownership determinations automated object cataloging automated misplaced object alerts video annotations automated conference room scheduling semi automated object image catalogs object interaction query systems etc.

Again it should be noted that in the following paragraphs the discussion regarding the RFID Based Inference Platform generally focuses on applying RFID to an enterprise setting such as a corporate office or university department with many people any of which may be mobile or stationary at any given point in time. However the techniques described herein are applicable to other environments such as in a home a small business or in other public or private locations.

As noted above the RFID Based Inference Platform is adaptable for use in a variety of operating environments. However for purposes of explanation the following discussion will focus on a typical enterprise setting with widespread coverage of RFID readers and where most or all people and objects are tagged with passive RFID tags.

Further while tagged objects and people can be cataloged the following discussion assumes that the RFID Based Inference Platform begins with a blank slate. That tags associated with either objects and or people initially represent an undifferentiated mass of tags. In addition it should also be noted that in various embodiments users are free to pick up new tags and affix them to objects as and when needed.

It is also assumed that users have access to a computing environment that provides services such as network logins shared calendars and online presence which can be monitored by the RFID Based Inference Platform. This is increasingly the case in enterprises with the adoption of networked systems such as Microsoft Exchange and IBM Lotus Notes .

In a tested embodiment as illustrated by these primary components were run centrally by the enterprise. In particular the RFID Based Inference Platform was hosted on an enterprise server such that the various components of the RFID Based Inference Platform were trusted assuming trusted servers for the Enterprise . A set of RFID readers and were coupled to the enterprise server such that all tag readings captured by the RFID readers were passed by the enterprise server to the RFID Based Inference Platform . Similarly a set of enterprise monitors and were also coupled to the enterprise server such that all events captured by the monitors were passed by the enterprise server to the RFID Based Inference Platform . Given the RFID data and event data the RFID Based Inference Platform constructs the inference database as described herein. This inference database is then exposed to various external applications as desired.

This type of configuration provides the trusted inference engine access to the complete set of sensed data across all users objects and zones allowing it to make effective inferences. Similarly the trusted application is allowed the flexibility of working with a complete set of inferences i.e. inferences pertaining to all users and their objects yet control what processed information is presented to the users to ensure privacy.

Note that there is no requirement for any of these databases to be either trusted or secure. In fact the inference engine and or applications or other primary components of the RFID Based Inference Platform can be run and access by individual users on their own desktop machines if desired. However in this case privacy issues can be considered if desired to restrict the set of information made available to these users. For example privacy considerations could disallow an application run by one user from accessing inferences pertaining to another user. Such limitations would make it more difficult to implement new functionality or applications based on the inference database such as an automatic conference room scheduling feature discussed in Section 2.7.

The event monitor see element of makes use of conventional RFID readers placed in known locations throughout the region being covered by the RFID Based Inference Platform in order to capture RFID data for each particular zone. In general the event monitor issues periodic read commands to each of the RFID readers which then take RFID readings and provide the results back to the event monitor. Alternately the RFID readers can be set to automatically take RFID readings. In this case the event monitor simply records those readings as they are received from the various RFID readers. Note that the RFID data provided by each reader includes the electronic product code EPC and the signal strength RSSI of the tags read via each of its antennas. This data then gets pushed into the raw RFID event database.

As is well known to those skilled in the art when a conventional RFID reader energizes an RFID reader antenna any tags within range of that RFID reader get activated and respond with their ID e.g. a 96 bit EPC and possibly other data such as the RSSI. Note that the RSSI Received Signal Strength Indication is a conventional measurement of the power present in the radio signal received by the RFID reader from the RFID tag. As discussed in further detail below the RSSI is used to determine proximity or distance of a particular RFID tag to a particular RFID reader. Many conventional RFID readers include RSSI capabilities. Such capabilities are well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in detail herein.

As noted above the RFID Based Inference Platform makes inferences based on a combination of RFID data and other enterprise sensors or monitors. These other monitors act to capture or monitor some or all of the information listed below. The event monitor receives data from these other enterprise monitors and push their updates into the raw RFID event database. Examples of some of the various enterprise monitors sensors used by various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform include but are not limited to 

As noted above the RFID event database simply provides a storage mechanism for logging and recording RFID data received from the various RFID tags within range of each RFID reader. The RFID event database also logs and records data from the other enterprise monitors. Note that in the case of video cameras the resulting video feeds can either be stored in the raw RFID event database or if stored separately links to that data can be provided for later use in making inferences or indexing that video as described in further detail below.

In general the inference engine see element of operates on the raw RFID event database using one or more of the various inference algorithms described below in Section 2.3 to draw inferences about people objects and workspaces.

In general the processed inference database see element of is populated by the inference engine with the inferences from the data contained in the RFID event database. Further in various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform the inferences in the processed inference database are made available to applications built on top of the RFID Based Inference Platform. For example one such application is the misplaced object alert mentioned above.

As noted above the processed inference database can be made available to other applications for any of a variety of uses. While each application can access the processed inference database directly with or without lock and or exclusive control of that database it has been observed that a better method for addressing the processed inference database is to provide an API or set of API s or the like that allows the processed inference database to be shared among multiple applications. In this case the RFID Based Inference Platform provides a set of APIs for applications to look up the inferences stored in the processed database or to receive callbacks when new inferences are made. Note that the use of API s for allowing multiple applications to access databases in this manner is well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in detail herein. Some of the applications enabled using these techniques are described in combination with an example of a programming model for interacting with the processed inference database in Sections 2.6 and 2.7.

As noted above a variety of applications can be built using the APIs exposed by the RFID Based Inference Platform. A sampling of a few of these applications is discussed in Section 2.7.

The following paragraphs describe various inference algorithms and considerations used by the RFID Based Inference Platform inference engine see element of to perform automatic inference and to address various concerns. In general as noted above the various inference algorithms provided by the RFID Based Inference Platform operate on a stream of events both from the RFID readers and from other enterprise systems to make several inferences automatically.

For purposes of explanation it will be assumed that all people and objects are tagged and that these tags are read reliably by one or more of the RFID reader antennas that covers the zone they are in note that each zone has at least one RFID reader . However the following discussion will also address the impact of deviations from this ideal such as where less than all objects and or people have an RFID tag or where one or more objects and or people have multiple RID tags.

In general movement m is quantified in terms of the number of inter zone transitions made by an object within some period of time. For example if a person takes a walk through 4 zones along the path A B C D this would correspond to 3 units of movement or simply m 3 as in 1 zone A to zone B 2 zone B to zone C and 3 zone C to zone D.

A significant portion of the analysis of RFID and other event data is based on the movement of tags between zones. For purposes of explanation it is conceptually assumed that these zones are non overlapping. In practice however multiple zones may overlap i.e. the tag is read by more than one antenna at the same time . In one embodiment the issue of multiple concurrent reads of the same RFID tag is addressed by effectively eliminating the overlap by filtering out all concurrent reads of a particular tag from multiple antennas except for the one with the strongest signal strength e.g. the largest RSSI .

Further in a related embodiment to eliminate the possibility of incorrect inferences made because of spurious inter zone movement any movement between overlapping zones can also be disregarded. For example if a person stands between a particular tagged object and a first RFID reader antenna it is possible that a second RFID reader may read the tag of that object with a higher RSSI. If the person then moves from between the tagged object and the first RFID reader then the first RFID reader may read the tag of that object with a higher RSSI than the second reader even though the object has not moved between zones. Thus elimination of movement between overlapping zones can address the problem of spurious inter zone movement. Note that careful placement of RFID reader antennas such as on or near the ceiling of a room rather than on or near walls can partially address issues such as partial blockage of an RFID tag by an intervening object such as a person.

The idea behind person object differentiation is to take an undifferentiated mass of tags and classify each tag as either belonging to a person or to an object. A person tag refers to a tag affixed say to a person s employee badge which is almost always carried by the person.

One essential difference between people and objects pertains to their mobility. People can move on their own whereas objects generally move only when carried by a person. Note that a special identifier such as a mobile object tag or the like can be used to identify mobile non person objects such as a robot or the like . However for purposes of explanation the following discussion will assume just people and objects that generally do not move unless physically moved by a person.

To make the differentiation between person tags and object tags the RFID Based Inference Platform can simply measure the amount of inter zone movement exhibited by each tag and classify the ones with a high degree of movement as people and the rest as objects. However in addition to the problem of defining a suitable threshold on the degree of movement to decide whether a particular tag is a person tag there is also the more basic problem that this heuristic could yield the wrong inference in many cases. For instance an object belonging to an active person e.g. his her mobile phone might well exhibit far more movement than a sedentary person who could be inadvertently labeled as an object.

Therefore in various embodiments this issue is addressed by using a co movement based heuristic. The basic idea here is to consider the movement of a tag not in isolation but in relation to the movement of any other tags that it moves with. Two tags are said to move together when they make the same inter zone transition at about the same time. The movement of a tag is compared with the movement other tags whether attached to objects or to people that it moves with at some point. If on average a particular tag moves more than the other tags with which co movement is observed then that tag is deemed to be a person tag. Otherwise it is classified as an object tag. This in the above example the high degree of movement exhibited by an active person s mobile phone would be compared with the even higher degree of movement of the active person himself herself. Consequently the phone would not be misclassified as a person.

In particular consider a tag T that exhibits a total movement of m. Recall that this corresponds to m inter zone transitions as noted above. Let the set of tags that T moves with at some point in time i.e. makes a near simultaneous inter zone transition with at some point be CM T T . . . T. CMis referred to as the co movement set for T. Let m m . . . mrepresent the amount of total movement with or without T being present exhibited by T T . . . T respectively and c c . . . cbe the amount of co movement exhibited by each of these tags together with T. Let C c. Then a relative movement metric RM is defined for tag T as illustrated by Equation 1 where 

Intuitively RMis the amount by which T moves minus the average movement exhibited by the tags it moves with. In one embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform weights the movement of each other tag by the amount of its co movement with T as reflected in the

The RFID Based Inference Platform computes the RMfor all tags T. Then the RFID Based Inference Platform finds the tag T that has the largest positive RMand declares it to be a person tag. The RFID Based Inference Platform then adjusts the co movement sets for other tags as follows. Consider two other tags say Tand T that exhibit co movement with T. To decide whether there are any instances of co movement between Tand T the RFID Based Inference Platform first eliminates all instances where T which has already been declared to be a person tag also moved. Only if Tand Tmove together without co movement by T as well does the RFID Based Inference Platform consider Tto be part of T s co movement set and vice versa. The intuition is that when there is already a person present to explain a movement the RFID Based Inference Platform should not use the same movement as evidence of another tag being a person. For instance this would prevent a person s mobile phone which is often carried by the person from itself being mistakenly classified as a person based on its apparent co movement with a book that the person also carries on occasion.

Once the co movement information has been adjusted as noted above the RFID Based Inference Platform recomputes RMfor all of the remaining tags and repeats the above process so long as there remains a tag with a positive RM. Once the RFID Based Inference Platform reaches the point where RMis negative for all of the remaining tags the RFID Based Inference Platform declares these to be object tags and terminate the algorithm.

Finally tags that do not exhibit any movement are simply classified as object tags. People are very unlikely to remain immobile for days or even hours at a stretch. On the other hand an object such as a book may never move out of the zone corresponding to the owner s office. Note that in the case where a tag has been previously identified as a person tag exhibits behavior such as remaining immobile for some predetermined period of time such as hours or days an emergency alert with tag location can be provided to appropriate individuals in case the person associated with that tag has become injured or otherwise incapacitated.

Having classified tags as people or objects the RFID Based Inference Platform next turns to the question of inferring the owner obviously a person of each object. In one embodiment co movement is used to correlate with ownership i.e. an object is generally carried by its owner . However this simple heuristic may fail in some common situations. For instance a person might be the owner of a book he she owns that is located in that person s office. Further it is possible that the only time when that book moves across zones is when someone else borrows it. Consequently a co movement based inference would likely get confused and attribute ownership of the book to the occasional borrower.

Therefore in another embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform uses a simple co presence based heuristic which works as follows For each object the RFID Based Inference Platform simply keeps track of the amount of time that the object is concurrently present in the same zone as a person. The person with which an object is co present the most is deemed to be the owner of the object. For instance all objects that are owned by a person and that are generally in his her office would be deemed to be owned by that person since it is presumably he she who would be spending the most amount of time in the same zone i.e. his her own office at the same time as those objects. While there is the possibility of misclassification e.g. when an object is borrowed by another person who holds it for longer than the owner himself herself had it the likelihood of this event is expected to be relatively low.

In addition there are also cases of objects that are not owned by anyone in particular e.g. a book in a common lounge or a mug in a kitchen. The above heuristic would generally find that no one person dominates the co presence metric for such an object and this observation could be used to identify it as a shared object tag. 

Finally in another embodiment the user is provided with a user interface for specifically associating particular tags with that user as the owner. This can be accomplished in various ways. For example the user can simply specify that some set of RFID tags are object tags owned by the user. The user can then place one or more of those tags on one or more objects. In this case ownership is attributed based on the specified association rather than one of the aforementioned ownership heuristics. Note that RFID tags are often flexible tags that have an integral adhesive surface that is exposed by peeling a covering from the adhesive surface. Consequently many RFID tags are simply peel and stick in nature thereby allowing the user to easily attach tags to objects.

An office building or other location such as a home or public space typically has different kinds of workspaces. For example there are workspaces assigned to individuals such as private offices semi private cubicles or desks. There are shared spaces including either reserved spaces such as meeting rooms or non reserved spaces such as lounges or reading rooms. Finally there are also common areas such as hallways stairwells and kitchen areas which people generally move through rather than stay put in for significant lengths of time occasional hallway conversations notwithstanding .

Although an enterprise may know the nature of each physical workspace it would be require additional overhead to keep this in sync with the RFID deployment and the zone of coverage of the many RFID antennas e.g. an antenna may be moved or pointed differently without the master database being updated . Therefore in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform automatically classifies workspaces actually the RFID zones covering those workspaces using information on the presence movement and calendar information of people not objects as follows 

Having identified the nature of tags person vs. object and the nature of workspaces in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform acts to automatically infer the identity of the person corresponding to a particular person tag. In general in many modern workplaces with one or more computers at every desk a user often interacts with their computer soon after entering their office e.g. by logging in or causing their presence information to transition from away to online . Consequently it is expected that there will be a correlation within some relatively short but typically variable time period between the stream of events corresponding to users entering their individual workspaces entrance events and the same users interacting with their computers login events . This can help identify the person corresponding to a tag.

In one embodiment this correlation was generally determined by the RFID Based Inference Platform by constructing a graph having nodes and edges. Person tags and person identities are the nodes and the weight of the directed edge from a person tag to one or more unique person identities reflects a strength of the belief in the correspondence between the person tag and each particular identity.

In particular when an entrance event corresponding to a person tag and the login event corresponding to a possibly different person happen within a short window of time the RFID Based Inference Platform increments a coincidence count for the corresponding edge between the person tag and the identity of the login. Note that many entrance login events may happen within the same window and so the RFID Based Inference Platform may increment the coincidence counts for multiple edges. The RFID Based Inference Platform also keeps track of the total number of entrance events for each tag. The ratio of the coincidence counts for a person tag identity pair to the total number of entrance events for the person tag yields the weight for the corresponding directed edge. The highest weight edge emanating from the node corresponding to a person tag would then point to the identity of the corresponding person. Note that the RFID Based Inference Platform would need to gather a sufficient number of samples to avoid situations where multiple tags point to the same identity with their highest weight edges.

To help scale this algorithm in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform compartmentalizes the entrance and login events based on geographic regions. For example in a very large enterprise such as a business with offices in various locations throughout the world there is little point in mixing up login events that happen in zones associated with one subnet e.g. Bangalore India with entrance events that happen in a geographically distant subnet e.g. Redmond Wash. .

In another embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform examines events within a particular RFID zones to determine interaction between people and objects. Specifically in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform considers the problem of inferring that an object has been interacted with e.g. picked up or otherwise moved by a person for use in making further inferences regarding the object and or the person. For example consider a set of tagged objects in a particular zone. If the environment is stable the RSSI of the backscatter from the tags as recorded at the reader would also be stable. However if an object is picked up this would typically change its distance from and or its orientation with respect to the RFID reader antenna thereby causing the RSSI of its tag to change.

In various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform uses empirical observations to detect a significant change which is sufficient to indicate interaction between a tagged person and a tagged object. For example in a tested embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform samples the RSSI of each object tag in a particular zone on the order of about every 200 ms. Then in a sliding window on the order of about 4 seconds and containing on the order of about 20 samples the RFID Based Inference Platform determines low and high percentiles of the RSSI. In a tested embodiment these low and high percentiles of the RSSI were determined at the 10th and 90th percentiles respectively. Then if the RSSI in each case were found to differ by an amount on the order of around 10 dBm the RFID Based Inference Platform concludes that there has been a significant change in the RSSI and declares that the object has been interacted with. Note that the values listed above are dependent on several factors including the capabilities of the particular RFID reader being used. Consequently it should be understood that the values listed above are provided only for purposes of explanation.

Further as noted above the RSSI can also change because of the introduction of an obstruction e.g. the movement of a person. Therefore in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform minimizes spurious detection of interaction because of such events by using multiple antennas each mounted in a different position and orientation covering the region of interest. The RFID Based Inference Platform then requires that each antenna detect a significant change in the RSSI of a tag based on the thresholds noted above for it to be deemed as an interaction. In tested embodiments it has been observed that the probability is low that a non interaction event would cause the RSSI measured by all antennas to change significantly at the same time. In fact it has been observed that as few as two antennas is typically sufficient to provide satisfactory results for addressing this issue.

In various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform improves the reliability of RFID tag reads by using a simple multi tagging scheme where multiple tags are affixed in preferably different orientations onto each object. The orientation diversity is not essential however it helps to increase the probability of at least one of an object s tags being detected. Note that this type of multi tagging is known to those skilled in the art for use in improving object detection probabilities for known objects.

However in the context of the RFID Based Inference Platform where tags are automatically identified as either person tags or object tags without any prior knowledge of what those tags are affixed to multi tagging raises the issue of automatically learning which set of tags is attached to the same object. Therefore to address this issue the RFID Based Inference Platform starts with the assumption that all tags belong to one giant super object represented as a fully connected graph over the tags. Then any time two tags are detected simultaneously in different zones the RFID Based Inference Platform automatically concludes that the tags belong to different objects and so deletes the edge between them. In one embodiment this process is refined by requiring that the different zones are non adjacent to avoid the issue of overlapping zones discussed above. In either case after running a large number of tag sighting events through this algorithm the RFID Based Inference Platform would be left with a set of connected components each of which the RFID Based Inference Platform infers as corresponding to the set of tags attached to the same object.

As noted above the enterprise is assumed to be trusted and or secure while individuals are not necessarily trusted. Consequently in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform does not worry about defending against privacy attacks by the enterprise itself which is after all the entity that would deploy and manage any system which implemented any of the various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform. Therefore assuming entries based deployment in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform focuses on attempts to compromise privacy by surreptitiously monitoring RFID tags such as through the use of rogue RFID readers.

In particular in order to address such threats in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform use a simple relabeling technique where the ID e.g. EPC code on each tag is rewritten by the RFID Based Inference Platform infrastructure via the RFID reader at random times thereby defeating attempts by an attacker to track specific tags. Note that many conventional RFID readers are capable of rewriting the IDs of certain types of RFID tags. Thus this embodiment assumes the availability of RFID readers with tag rewriting capabilities in combination with rewritable tags. Further rather than performing this rewriting process only once the RFID Based Inference Platform performs the ID rewriting as a periodic process at any desired regular or random intervals. Thus only the infrastructure of the RFID Based Inference Platform would be aware of the mapping between the old and new tag IDs.

Clearly as is known to those skilled in the art other RFID based privacy issues may exist. For example the unique identifier e.g. EPC carried by RFID tags coupled with the non line of sight operation of RFID implies the ability to see and track objects far beyond what the human eye can do. For instance an RFID reader can easily detect and identify objects that are inside a bag with privacy implications as well as security implications e.g. a thief can tell exactly which bags contain valuable items . Further a person and their possessions can be scanned repeatedly without them realizing it because of non line of sight operation. There are a number of conventional techniques for addressing such privacy concerns as summarized below any of which can be used individually or in combination to address such privacy concerns if desired.

For example it is possible to kill many conventional RFID tags thereby rendering such tags unreadable. Killing a tag is generally accomplished by issuing a special reader command along with a password. While this might be suitable in some settings e.g. consumers getting the tags on their purchases killed this may not be applicable in settings where the ability to track objects in normal course is desired.

Another approach as noted above involves renaming tags rather than killing those tags. In particular rather than being killed tags could be renamed perhaps repeatedly to defeat attempts to track them surreptitiously. One possibility is for the reader to relabel tags. An alternative approach is for a tag to maintain multiple pseudonyms known only to legitimate readers and to cycle through them when queried. Of course this would requires more advanced tags that are generally more expensive.

Yet another approach involves the use of proxying. In particular users can carry their own privacy enforcing guardian devices for RFID such as a device integrated with a mobile phone for example that acts like a personal RFID firewall and intermediates all reader requests to their tags. Then if the RFID reader is not authorized the guardian device will prevent the tag from responding to the rogue RFID reader.

Finally yet another approach involves distance estimation. In particular some tags may be able to estimate their distance from the reader such as by evaluating the signal to noise ratio of the reader s signal. Then if the tag determines that the RFID reader is outside of some predetermined safe distance the tag will assume the reader to be a rogue RFID reader and will not respond to the read request.

Many applications can be built by leveraging the inferences produced by the RFID Based Inference Platform. The following paragraphs describe various embodiments of a simple programming model provided by the RFID Based Inference Platform for building such applications. As noted above in various embodiments of the aforementioned API the RFID Based Inference Platform exposes a set of events callbacks which an application can subscribe to and a set of lookup functions which an application can call to get information from the processed inference database. Note that while other naming conventions can e used if desired in a tested embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform APIs refer to a each tag by its unique tag ID which corresponds to the unique EPC for each tag.

In various tested embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform provides the several events to which applications can subscribe see the database callbacks shown as element in including 

In various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform exposes several APIs including the following APIs note that the API names shown are provided only for purposes of explanation 

Returns unknown if the tag is currently not found by any of the Rfid readers connected to the RFID Based Inference Platform.

The following paragraphs describe a few of the many applications that can be implemented using various combinations of the events and APIs described above in Section 2.6. Note that the following list is not intended to be an exhaustive list of the possible uses for the RFID Based Inference Platform and that there are a very large variety of possible uses for the RFID Based Inference Platform based on the events and API s described above for interacting with the processed inference database.

The misplaced object alert is one example of a service provided by the RFID Based Inference Platform via inferences derived through tracking the movement of users and objects. In general the RFID Based Inference Platform notifies a user when it determines that he she may have misplaced an object. More specifically the RFID Based Inference Platform assumes that an object is misplaced when it is in a shared workspace or a public area and the object s owner who was also in the same zone moves away to a different zone. When such a situation is detected the system suspects that the object may have been misplaced and alerts the user via any of email phone intercom text message etc.

To implement this service the RFID Based Inference Platform first invokes GetTagList to learn of all the tags in the system. The RFID Based Inference Platform then invokes GetTagType on each tag to learn whether it corresponds to a person or an object. For the object tags alone the RFID Based Inference Platform invokes GetTagOwner to learn the tagID of its owner. Finally the RFID Based Inference Platform registers for the InterZoneMovementEvent callback on all person tags. Armed with the ownership and movement information the RFID Based Inference Platform is a position to detect whether an object is misplaced as noted above. If it is the RFID Based Inference Platform invokes GetPersonTagIdentity on the affected persons tagID to learn the identity of the corresponding person after which the RFID Based Inference Platforms simply alerts that person to the present location of the misplaced object.

Clearly any of a number of variants can be defined for the misplaced object alert service. For example in one embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform requires a minimum separation in terms of time or distance between an object and its owner for the object to be deemed as having been misplaced.

Further in another embodiment using the same set of events and APIs as above a user interface is provided that allows the user to enter plain language queries to query the system for information about the objects he she owns. For example the user can ask the RFID Based Inference Platform When was the object I had with me around 4 30 PM last detected The RFID Based Inference Platform will then return the time of last detection along with the location of the last detection. Note that since the process is based entirely on tags there is no requirement for the RFID Based Inference Platform to have any knowledge whatsoever of what the tag is actually attached to whether it is a cell phone a camera a water bottle a set of keys etc. .

As noted above video sequences can be annotated or indexed using inferences generated by the RFID Based Inference Platform. For example in one embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform provides an application that annotates the video feed from a camera with RFID events corresponding to inter zone movement and object interaction. Such annotations allow user queries via a user interface to search for events of interest. For example the automated video annotation application enabled by the RFID Based Inference Platform can automatically answer queries such as show me all video frames where person A interacted with object X. 

In particular to annotate a video with events the RFID Based Inference Platform stores the video in some desired video format as an AVI or MPEG file for example. Separately the RFID Based Inference Platform records an event log that is temporally correlated with the video but is separate from it. Besides the time of occurrence an event also records the tagID involved and the zone where the event took place. To support rich querying in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform also stores additional information regarding each event obtained from invocations of GetTagType GetTagOwner and GetPersonTagIdentity as appropriate. Then when a query is issued for a specific event the RFID Based Inference Platform simply extracts the corresponding time offset from the event log and seeks directly to the corresponding point in the video.

Note that in a related embodiment the user can specify some time period prior to the event and following the event in order to bracket the event of interest. For example the user can specify a five minute window or any other desired time on either side the event of interest so that the RFID Based Inference Platform will return a 10 minute segment of the video stream to the user.

One clear use for such an annotated video solution is annotating the video recorded by the security cameras in a building. For example using the annotated video application described above a user who is searching for an untagged object that he she has misplaced could for instance query for all sections of the video recording corresponding to when he she was in the zone of interest. Note that a further example of an automated video annotation application is discussed in Section 4 with reference to .

In one embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform provides an application that automatically identifies a shared space as a reserved space e.g. a conference room using user calendar information as described above. While reserving such a room may be the norm people may sometimes occupy it without reservation such as in the case where the room is not already occupied and they are simply looking for space to hold an unplanned last minute meeting. Despite this barging in if the room has in fact not been reserved for the time in question it would be desirable to automatically reserve it for the group that has barged in. This automatic reservation would then avoid the possibility of someone else trying to reserve the apparently free but in fact occupied room.

Therefore in order to address this issue the RFID Based Inference Platform provides an application for automatic conference room booking. In particular from the RFID Based Inference Platform s zone identification procedure described above the RFID Based Inference Platform first recognizes that the room in question is a reserved space. The RFID Based Inference Platform then invokes GetTagsInZone to detect all the tags in the current zone. Invocations of GetTagType on each such tag then identifies the people if any present in the room.

If the RFID Based Inference Platform finds a group of people staying in the room for longer than some user adjustable or fixed period of time such as 5 minutes for example the RFID Based Inference Platform assumes that those people are meeting in the room. In this case the RFID Based Inference Platform invokes GetCalendarEntry on the room to see if there is a reservation for the current time. Note that it is common practice to treat reserved rooms as persons with their own calendars. If there is no current reservation the RFID Based Inference Platform creates an automatic reservation by invoking SetCalendarEntry for the room and each person in the meeting.

In another embodiment the RFID Based Inference Platform provides a semi automated image cataloging application that allows a user to add photographs of particular tagged objects to the RFID event database or some separate database linked to the RFID object database .

In particular this semi automated image cataloging application allows the user to pick up a tagged object hold it in front of their computer network connected camera and take a picture. By looking for ObjectInteractedEvent events in the zone that the user is currently in the RFID Based Inference Platform can automatically identify the tagID of the object that was picked up. Note that if the RFID Based Inference Platform finds that more than one object was interacted with at the time in question the user can be alerted to repeat the process if they so desire. The tagID associated with the object that was interacted with is then cataloged along with the picture that was just taken.

A catalog such as this allows users to identify their objects more naturally using images rather than tagIDs. For example a user could browse the image catalog an select any one or more of the images at which time the RFID Based Inference Platform would automatically return information for each selected image such as for example where that object is or when that object was last in the same zone as the user.

The processes described above with respect to and and in further view of the detailed description provided above in Section 1 and Section 2 are summarized by the general operational flow diagram of . In particular provides an exemplary operational flow diagram that illustrates operation of some of the various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform described above. Note that is not intended to be an exhaustive representation of all of the various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform described herein and that the embodiments represented in are provided only for purposes of explanation.

Further it should be noted that any boxes and interconnections between boxes that may be represented by broken or dashed lines in represent optional or alternate embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform described herein and that any or all of these optional or alternate embodiments as described below may be used in combination with other alternate embodiments that are described throughout this document.

In general as illustrated by the RFID Based Inference Platform begins operation by collecting RFID tag data from a plurality of RFID readers and spread throughout the workspace being covered by the RFID Based Inference Platform. As discussed above one or more RFID tags are affixed to people and objects within the workspace. In the case of people it is not necessary to actually affix the RFID tags to the people though this can be done if desired. Instead RFID tags associated with people are generally affixed to some object that is nearly always carried by the person such as an employee badge or other object.

In addition to collecting the RFID tag data the RFID Based Inference Platform also collects event data from a plurality of various types of enterprise monitors and . As discussed above examples of some of the various types of enterprise monitors include but are not limited to electronic calendar systems user presence systems security cameras WiFi networks cardkey access systems etc. Further all of the collected RFID data and event data is time stamped generally by the device collecting that information i.e. RFID readers or enterprise monitors .

All of the RFID tag data and enterprise monitor event data collected and are stored to the aforementioned RFID event database as it is collected. Consequently the RFID event database is expected to grow over time. Further since the RFID event database grows over time it should also be expected that any inferences drawn from the RFID event database will evolve over time as those inferences are periodically updated as the RFID event database continues to receive information. Note that in various embodiments to prevent unconstrained growth of the RFID event database data associated with tags that have not been observed for some extended time period can be pruned from the database if desired.

In any case given the information contained in the RFID event database the RFID Based Inference Platform evaluates that data to infer a number of informational details that are used to populate the aforementioned inference database . For example in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform makes some or all of the following inferences for inclusion in the inference database 

Clearly any of a number of inferences can be made depending upon the specifics of the enterprise monitor set available for use in capturing and collecting event data that can be temporally correlated with the RFID tag data. Consequently the aforementioned basic types of inferences should be understood to represent an exemplary list of inferences that is not exhaustive. The basic idea here is that RFID tag data can be combined with data from other sensors monitors and or services in order to infer relationships from RFID tag interaction with those events and with other RFID tags in order to infer additional information that can then be exposed to external applications.

In particular as noted above in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform provides a set of APIs or the like see Section 2.6.2 for examples of various APIs that expose the inference database to one or more external applications . Various examples of such external applications include but are not limited to 

As discussed above in section 2.7.2 in various embodiments the RFID Based Inference Platform provides automated video annotation based on the information in the RFID event database and inferences derived from that data. FIG. 4 provides a general system flow diagram that illustrates exemplary methods for implementing an automated video annotation application using various embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform.

In general generally builds off the basic RFID Based Inference Platform shown in by illustrating the inclusion of a video stream that is captured saved and then automatically annotated or indexed using information from the RFID event database and the inference database.

More specifically as discussed with respect to shows that the RFID Based Inference Platform collects time stamped RFID tag data from the RFID readers and further collects time stamped event data from the various enterprise monitors. This collected data is then stored to the RFID event database . Data stored in the RFID event database is periodically evaluated to make inferences regarding the type of tags person or object ownership of tags identification of zone types and identity corresponding to person tags. All inferences are stored to the inference database . To this point the processes illustrated in are simply a summary of the processes described with respect to .

However unlike the general system flow diagram of includes a process for capturing one or more video streams in known zones. As with the RFID tag data and event data the captured video streams are time stamped. The captured video streams are then stored to a video database . Alternately captured video streams can be stored to the RFID event database as just another stream of event data captured from an enterprise monitor which in this case is a video camera . In either case the RFID Based Inference Platform then automatically annotates or indexes the video stream using information from either or both the RFID event database and the inference database .

For example in various embodiments annotations may include information such as RFID events corresponding to inter zone movement and object interaction. Such annotations allow user queries or search via a user interface to search for events of interest. For example as noted above the automated video annotation application enabled by the RFID Based Inference Platform can automatically answer various queries including 

The above examples are only a few of the many queries that are possible given various combinations of the API s described in Section 2.6.2. In fact it should be clear that given the described set of APIs many rich queries regarding annotated video streams are possible.

Finally in response to the query the RFID Based Inference Platform simply displays the video frames resulting from the query using a conventional video playback device . In related embodiments the user interface allows the user to interact with the annotated video returned in response to the query such as by printing one or more frames exporting one or video frames or sequences of video frames for later use performing facial recognition of persons in video frames of interest etc.

The RFID Based Inference Platform is operational within numerous types of general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. illustrates a simplified example of a general purpose computer system on which various embodiments and elements of the RFID Based Inference Platform as described herein may be implemented. It should be noted that any boxes that are represented by broken or dashed lines in represent alternate embodiments of the simplified computing device and that any or all of these alternate embodiments as described below may be used in combination with other alternate embodiments that are described throughout this document.

For example shows a general system diagram showing a simplified computing device. Such computing devices can be typically be found in devices having at least some minimum computational capability including but not limited to personal computers server computers hand held computing devices laptop or mobile computers communications devices such as cell phones and PDA s multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers video media players etc.

At a minimum to allow a device to implement the RFID Based Inference Platform the device must have some minimum computational capability along with a network connection or other data connection or input device for receiving RFID event data and other sensor or system data and either storage capability for storing RFID and sensor event data and inferences or a data output device for external storage of data and inferences.

In particular as illustrated by the computational capability is generally illustrated by one or more processing unit s and may also include one or more GPUs . Note that that the processing unit s of the general computing device of may be specialized microprocessors such as a DSP a VLIW or other micro controller or can be conventional CPUs having one or more processing cores including specialized GPU based cores in a multi core CPU.

In addition the simplified computing device of may also include other components such as for example a communications interface . The simplified computing device of may also include one or more conventional computer input devices . The simplified computing device of may also include other optional components such as for example one or more conventional computer output devices . Finally the simplified computing device of may also include storage that is either removable and or non removable . Note that typical communications interfaces input devices output devices and storage devices for general purpose computers are well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in detail herein.

The foregoing description of the RFID Based Inference Platform has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the claimed subject matter to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Further it should be noted that any or all of the aforementioned alternate embodiments may be used in any combination desired to form additional hybrid embodiments of the RFID Based Inference Platform. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

