---

title: Submillimeter wave heterodyne receiver
abstract: In an embodiment, a submillimeter wave heterodyne receiver includes a finline ortho-mode transducer comprising thin tapered metallic fins deposited on a thin dielectric substrate to separate a vertically polarized electromagnetic mode from a horizontally polarized electromagnetic mode. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07899432&OS=07899432&RS=07899432
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 07899432
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 820 489 filed 19 Jun. 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 814 731 filed 19 Jun. 2006.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Dual polarized sideband separating balanced receivers are well known and have been used extensively at microwave and millimeter wave frequencies. However it is presently believed that receivers based on prior art designs may not operate well at frequencies at or above 1 THz. Only recently sideband separating balanced receivers have been designed for frequencies beyond W band 75 110 GHz . For example receiver architectures have been proposed for frequencies up to 900 GHz for the Atacama Large Millimeter Submillimeter Array ALMA .

Dual polarized receivers detect both polarizations of incoming radiation. When both polarizations are received simultaneously there is a square root over 2 improvement in signal to noise ratio SNR or a factor of two reduction in observing time. In some prior art applications dual polarization operation may be achieved by using a wire grid polarizer to split the telescope beam into two polarizations. The output of a local oscillator LO may be injected using a beamsplitter either after the polarizer in which case two beamsplitters are used or before the polarizer where a single correctly oriented beamsplitter is used. Either approach leads to fairly complicated optical designs especially for receivers with multiple bands or multiple pixels.

Most submillimeter wave receivers in radio astronomy currently use double sideband DSB mixers to down convert an RF Radio Frequency signal to an intermediate frequency. DSB mixers are useful for continuum observations where the signals from both sidebands are equally important. However for spectral line observations the presence of the down converted signals from the unwanted image band may degrade receiver sensitivity and calibration certainty. Therefore sideband separating receivers with good image rejection capability are desirable for high resolution spectral line observations. Moreover sideband separating receivers with good image rejection may mitigate confusion from spectra in the image sideband and may mitigate calibration uncertainty from sideband imbalance.

Balanced mixers use two or more detector elements in a balanced configuration to help suppress local oscillator amplitude modulation AM noise help provide better power handling capabilities than unbalanced mixers and help reject certain spurious responses and spurious signals. By simplifying LO injection and eliminating the need for diplexers balanced mixers are desirable components for scaling receivers to multi pixel arrays.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Described are embodiments for a submillimeter wave heterodyne receiver for providing dual polarized sideband separating and balanced output signals. In practice a plurality of embodiments may be configured into a multi pixel receiver array. Embodiment receivers may be fabricated utilizing silicon micromachining utilizing deep reactive ion etching DRIE processes. It is expected that such manufacturing techniques may yield components working up to 6 THz. For example embodiments are expected to provide relatively compact broadband dual polarized sideband separating balanced receivers operational at 1.5 THz with more than a 40 fractional bandwidth.

A receiver according to an embodiment is illustrated in at a high block diagram level. An electromagnetic signal is received at horn antenna . Coupled to horn is ortho mode transducer OMT followed by six quadrature hybrids and . OMT separates the two orthogonal polarizations of the received electromagnetic signal with one of the two polarizations e.g. the vertical polarization provided to quadrature hybrid and the other polarization e.g. the horizontal polarization provided to quadrature hybrid .

A quadrature hybrid comprises four ports and may be used in various ways for summing and phase shifting electromagnetic signals. For example two ports may serve as input ports and two ports may serve as output ports where for complex valued input amplitudes A and B the output signals may be modeled as A square root over 2 jB square root over 2 and B square root over 2 jA square root over 2 where j denotes a phase rotation of 4 90 . For quadrature hybrid one of its ports is terminated by a cooled matched impedance load labeled cold load so that for an input amplitude A the output port of hybrid that is coupled to quadrature hybrid provides jA square root over 2 and the output port of hybrid that is coupled to quadrature hybrid provides A square root over 2 . In practice there may be an additional phase shift applied to both output signals but this is not important and is left out for convenience. The termination load for hybrid is cooled to reduce thermal noise. Similar remarks apply to quadrature hybrids and .

Local oscillator provides a sinusoidal signal to one of the input ports of quadrature hybrid . The frequency of local oscillator is chosen so that the frequency difference to f where is the frequency of the received electromagnetic signal and f is the frequency of the local oscillator is some desired intermediate frequency. Although not explicitly shown a bandpass filter centered about the intermediate frequency follows mixer and similarly for mixer . The output signals from these bandpass filters are summed and provided to an input port of quadrature hybrid . Similarly local oscillator is also coupled to an input port of hybrid whose output ports are coupled to mixers and . The outputs of mixers and are bandpass filtered and summed and provided to an input port of quadrature hybrid .

For some applications the output signals at the output ports of quadrature hybrid are expect perhaps for an algebraic sign or an overall phase shift the upper and lower sideband components of the received electromagnetic signal after shifting down to the intermediate frequency. Accordingly the output ports of quadrature hybrid are labeled in as USB V POL and LSB V POL where the V POL denotes vertical polarization USB denotes upper sideband and LSB denotes lower sideband.

For example for a received signal modeled as Acos t t where is the carrier frequency and the phase modulation t is a relatively slowly varying function of time the output signals at USB and LSB represent up to an overall phase factor or algebraic sign the upper sideband and lower sideband components respectively of Acos t t when shifted down to an intermediate frequency. Such a signal model may be appropriate in CW Continuous Wave radar systems where Acos t t is a received signal from a scatterer.

For many communication systems the received signal may be expressed as x t cos t x t cos t where in general the inphase and quadrature components x t and x t are independent of each other unlike the inphase and quadrature components of Acos t t . Then a more general statement is that the output signals at the output ports of quadrature hybrid are the inphase and quadrature components up to an overall phase factor or algebraic sign of the received signal when shifted down to the intermediate frequency. Stated in another way these output signals are related to each other by the Hilbert transform up to an overall phase factor or algebraic sign . The particular time dependence of the inphase and quadrature components x t and x t depends upon the chosen modulation scheme for the communication system.

The above discussion for the signal processing of the vertical polarization also is applicable to the signal processing chain applied to the horizontal polarization. For some embodiments local oscillator may be the same oscillator as local oscillator .

It should be noted that once the signals have been shifted to the intermediate frequency the functions of quadrature hybrids and may be implemented in the digital domain after digital to analog conversion. Furthermore post processing of the output signals from quadrature hybrids and may be performed in the digital domain.

An embodiment uses a diagonal horn comprising a square waveguide e.g. 150 m 150 m to accept all polarizations. In one particular embodiment the horn aperture may be set at 1.27 mm with a 6 semi flare angle. Horn may be fabricated with DRIE based silicon micromachining where gradient thickness photoresist masking layers may be used to achieve gradient depths of etching in the longitudinal direction. The wafer substrate in which horn is integrated may be mounted on a 45 tilted stage during the DRIE process to achieve the required profile in the transverse dimension.

Optical lithography and a DRIE based silicon micromachining process may be used to fabricate the horn antenna OMT and quadrature hybrids to achieve micron size waveguide features and sub micron tolerances and to achieve planar integration of these components. illustrates planar integration on a substrate for some of these components.

For convenience we take the convention that the horizontal polarization is parallel to the plane of blocks and so that the vertical polarization is perpendicular to this plane. However this convention is arbitrary so it is to be understood that the terms horizontal and vertical do not necessarily correspond to the actual physical horizontal and vertical orientations of the final assembled receiver.

For ease of discussion labels that are used for various receiver components in are also used in for the corresponding receiver components. For example etch structure in represents the bottom half of horn antenna in . Label in identifies OMT in . More precisely label in illustrates a portion of OMT that is fabricated on block not the entire OMT but for ease of discussion this distinction is not made when referring to label in . Similar remarks apply to the other receiver components keeping in mind that blocks and provide only the bottom half of the integration of the receiver components. Because of the obvious symmetry not all components in need be labeled for the correspondence between the components for the horizontal polarization processing chain and that of should be clear.

Cavities and indicate where mixers and may be placed. Structure represents the bottom half of a waveguide to guide the sinusoidal output of local oscillator to quadrature hybrids and .

The power flow direction of the input electromagnetic signal is indicated in by arrow which is taken in the direction of the z axis. This input electromagnetic signal is provided by horn and comprises the two orthogonal polarizations where the vertical polarization as referred to in is along the y axis and the horizontal polarization as referred to in is along the x axis. The dominant mode at the input port to the OMT for both of these polarizations is the TEmode.

The dashed lines in indicate the edge of waveguide underneath fins and . Note that portions of fins and extend outside of the dashed lines. These portions may be referred to as beamleads. The beamleads are positioned adjacent to that is on top of block during assembly. These beamleads are bonded to block where waveguide is etched into block so that fins and are held in place. This bonding may be van der Waal bonding. There is a gap between fins and adjacent to dielectric substrate to propagate a finline mode.

When the top half block is bonded to block to complete the OMT structure with waveguide fins and are positioned in a plane parallel to the x y plane and gap essentially runs along the center of waveguide follows bend and then out through side arm see . The straight portion of the OMT may be referred to as the through arm. provides a wire grid view of OMT inside waveguide indicating input port output pot for the side arm and output port for the through arm.

The horizontally polarized TEmode provided at input port to the OMT is parallel to fins and in the x axis direction and gradually transforms to a finline mode as it propagates along the OMT. Its energy is essentially confined to the narrow gap between fins and in the center of waveguide . This energy then may be removed from waveguide by curving the finline narrow gap and bringing it out through a side wall of waveguide . This is illustrated by bend and that portion of fins and near labels and . The narrow gap starts to widen when the finline mode is guided out of waveguide and through side arm . The finline mode gradually transforms into a TEmode where it is guided to the rest of the signal processing chain for the horizontally polarized portion of the received electromagnetic signal.

The vertically polarized TEmode provided input port to the OMT is orthogonal to fins and in the y axis direction and passes through the OMT essentially unperturbed when the fins are sufficiently thin. Resistive card is used to suppress the excitation of unwanted modes at the termination of the fins in the through arm of the OMT and may be fabricated by depositing a resistive film on the same dielectric substrate that the fins are deposited on. For the vertically polarized mode the through arm of the OMT transitions from a square cross section input port to a full height rectangular waveguide at output port by way of three step matching transformer .

For some embodiments for the horizontally polarized TEmode the full height rectangular side arm where fin portions and exit uses a mitered 45 bend so that both waveguide structures at output ports and may be in the same plane. For some embodiments a 40 height waveguide iris may be used at the junction between the side arm and through arm to minimize the effect of the side arm opening on the vertical polarization signal while mitigating disturbance of the finline guide mode for the horizontal polarization.

As can be seen from the previous illustrations the overall design of the OMT is planar and by using DRIE based silicon micromachining techniques it is expected that operation at THz frequencies is feasible. This structure however suffers from somewhat higher loss than the so called Beifot type designs due to Ohmic losses in the fins. Fortunately the resistive losses in a normal metal fin may be reduced if quantum limited mixers are operated at cryogenic temperatures.

Some embodiments may use metallic fins photolithographically etched on a thin silicon dielectric substrate. This is illustration in which provides a simplified cross sectional view of OMT . The orientation of the coordinate axes is illustrated in where the z axis points into the page of the illustration so that the illustration in is a slice of the illustration in in a plane perpendicular to the z axis close to the input port of the OMT. The polarizations of the two electric fields are shown where electric field Ehas a horizontal polarization in the x axis direction and electric field Ehas a vertical polarization in the y axis direction . Top half block is bonded to bottom half block by van der Waal forces to complete the OMT and waveguide structure.

Fins and may be fabricated by depositing metal on dielectric substrate followed by etching to produce the desired shape of the fins. For some embodiments the dielectric substrate may be silicon on insulator SOI or for example GaAs Gallium Arsenide and may have a thickness from 2 to 3 m. The choice for the width of the finline gap depends upon the operating frequency. For example for some embodiments the gap may be 25 m for a carrier frequency of 100 GHz and may scale accordingly where for example the gap may be 2.5 m for 1 THz.

A single gold metallization layer may be deposited on the SOI substrate and etched to form the fins. The beamleads may be formed from backside processing by etching away the SOI substrate using a separate mask. For example free standing metallic beamleads have been discussed in G. Chattopadhyay et al. An All Solid State Broad Band Frequency Multiplier Chain at 1500 GHz IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech. vol. 52 no. 5 pp. 1538 1547 May 2004. These beamleads are relatively mechanically strong reliable and are expected to provide very good grounding when mounted between two mating split blocks. The beamleads are also expected to help in handling the finline circuit during assembly which may have a thin layer of gold on a 1 m thick SOI substrate.

For some embodiments the main through arm of the OMT at the input port is a square waveguide of dimension 150 m by 150 m with a tapered waveguide to finline transition and the finline mode is taken through a 45 bend and out through a reduced height guide the side arm . It was found that a 45 finline bend minimized mode conversion and improved cross polarization performance.

Embodiment OMTs are expected to offer good performance from 1200 to 1800 GHz. The input match is approximately 20 dB across the band for both polarizations. The insertion loss is approximately 1.5 dB for the vertical polarization and approximately 0.6 dB for the horizontal polarization. Simulated isolation and cross polarization levels for the OMT were found to be in the 50 dB range.

Because the electromagnetic signals for the through arm and side arm have orthogonal polarizations waveguide twist may be used to bring the electromagnetic signal from the through arm of the OMT the vertically polarized received signal to the same plane as the electromagnetic signal from the side arm of the OMT the horizontally polarized received signal so that integration with the quadrature hybrids is easily facilitated. Waveguide twist has a structure with stepped transitions to rotate the waveguide orientation for the vertically polarized received electromagnetic signal so that the signal becomes polarized in the horizontal direction.

Lines and are meant to convey the edges of the vertical transitions for the bottom and top halves respectively. A vertical transition etch has some relatively constant height in the y axis direction but where the width in the x axis direction gradually increases from zero at the input port to the full width at the output port. One way to view the top half is to rotate the bottom half about the z axis by 180 . illustrate cross sectional views of the waveguide twist illustrated in where the coordinate system in has the same orientation as the coordinate system in . The views in are slices of the waveguide twist taken perpendicular to the z axis. illustrates the input port and illustrates the output port. illustrate two slices taken somewhere between the input and output ports.

As discussed previously embodiments use waveguide quadrature hybrids for the balanced sideband separating mixer designs. This architecture uses a total of three RF quadrature hybrids for each polarization one for the sideband separation and one for each of the two balanced mixers. A waveguide form for a quadrature hybrid comprises two parallel waveguides coupled through a series of apertures or branch waveguides. Some embodiments may use this branch line coupler design because of its broad bandwidth low loss and compatibility with DRIE micro machined split blocks.

The amplitude and phase imbalance at the outputs of a quadrature hybrid may affect the local oscillator noise injection of the balanced mixer and the image rejection of the sideband separating mixer. A design goal should be to develop waveguide quadrature hybrids with less than 1.5 dB of amplitude imbalance and less than a few degrees of phase imbalance over a wide frequency band at terahertz frequencies.

Important design parameters for the hybrid are the width of the branch guides the spacing of the branches and the branch separation distance. For some embodiments the design has branch guide widths in the 10 to 20 m range the spacing of the branches in the 30 to 60 m range and the branch separation distance approximately 55 m. provides a wire grid illustration of an embodiment waveguide quadrature hybrid.

As discussed previously various receiver components may be fabricated using DRIE techniques. DRIE of silicon has become an important technology process in micro fabricating components which range in depth from 10 m to greater than 1 mm. There are various well known methods one may employ for DRIE. A popular method is commonly known as the Bosch process. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 501 893 Method of Anisotropically Etching Silicon by F. Laermer and A. Schilp. This is a dry process compared to other deep etching techniques which rely on anisotropic wet chemistry. The Bosch process uses the deep reactive ion etching technique and does not appear to be sensitive to crystallographic orientation and this process may have a very high selectivity to the masking material. This process is also believed to be considerably safer than the equivalent wet process.

The DRIE process uses a fluorine based gas chemistry sulfur hexafluoride SF to etch the silicon combined with a fluorocarbon process octofluorocyclobutane CF to provide sidewall passivation and improved selectivity to the masking material. A complete etch process cycles between etch and deposition steps many times to achieve deep vertical etch profiles.

Some embodiments were developed using the following DRIE fabrication method for developing silicon micro machined components. A high resistivity silicon wafer is coated with a 5 m thick layer of SJR 5740 positive photo resist a product of MicroChem Corp. and exposed for approximately 40 seconds using a 25 W cm320 nm ultraviolet UV light. The waveguide etching mask is aligned with a Karl Suss MA6 aligner followed by developing in a mixture of AZ400K a product of AZ electronic materials and de ionized water in a 1 3 ratio until the pattern clears. The wafer is then mounted on a backing wafer using a crystal bond. The etching rate is approximately 2 m min and achieves a uniformity of about 10 across the wafer. The second step is similar to the first with the exception that extra precaution should be used while coating resist onto the backside. This is because the high resistivity silicon wafer is brittle and the first DRIE step makes it thinner. A standard blue masking sheet may be used to cover the etched side and may be removed immediately after coating the resist. The second etch is a through wafer etching step and the final parts are released in acetone.

Fabrication tolerances for horn and OMT assembly are not expected to be necessarily stringent because there are no tuning structures for these devices. Alignment crosses should be etched into the silicon structure to facilitate assembly. For some embodiments after a DRIE etch the silicon waveguide split block halves blocks and are gold plated with an e beam evaporator after masking off the alignment marks. Bonding is not necessary to hold the finline chip with its beamleads. Alignment of the top split block with the bottom half may be achieved with an infrared semiconductor alignment tool also known as flip chip bonder. This tool holds both the top and bottom halves of the chip in air chucks on precision motion stages. An infrared microscope looks through the transparent silicon at the location of the alignment crosses to allow registration of the top and bottom halves of the structures. The air chucks then clamp the halves together with the Van der Waals forces bonding the gold metallization layers of the split blocks. The silicon blocks may be glued and clamped into a copper fixture for testing.

Various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below.

