---

title: Rapid and sensitive method to measure endonuclease activity
abstract: A rapid and sensitive method to measure endonuclease activity comprising reacting a substrate suspected of having endonuclease activity with a synthetic nucleotide to induce endonuclease cleavage of the synthetic nucleotide followed by measurement of activity by carrying out a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). When no polymerase chain reaction takes place when carrying out the method it is indicative of no endonuclease activity in the substrate. Synthetic oligonucleotides, primers, and probes useful for carrying out the method are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08129149&OS=08129149&RS=08129149
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08129149
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081112
---
The herein disclosed invention finds applicability in the field of bioassay or biotesting and specifically in the field where endonuclease activity is to be detected and measured.

An endonuclease is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphodiester linkages within a nucleotide chain. Endonucleases have been widely used for the creation of recombinant DNA molecules mapping mutations and for studying the interactions of DNA with various intercalating agents. Certain types of endonucleases are highly selective for a specific nucleic acid recognition sequence or for a single stranded region within double stranded nucleic acid.

Nucleases are critical to the successful execution of nearly all DNA damage responses. In particular these enzymes recognize and excise specific forms of genetic damage or minimally initiate removal of a lesion containing DNA strand. As damage excision is essential for the maintenance of genetic integrity for cells to include bacterial and neoplastic cells altering the activity of Apurinic Apyrimidinic endonuclease APE could hold promise for enhanced or novel treatments to infection and cancer.

The utility of single strand specific nucleases as analytical tools has been widely recognized and has led to their extensive application as probes for the determination of nucleic acid structure. The technology described in this invention will not only dramatically increase the sensitivity of quantitating endonuclease activity but will duly allow for enzyme substrate characterization.

The herein disclosed invention has a main object of providing a rapid and sensitive method for measuring endonuclease activity.

This and other objects of the present invention will become apparent from a reading of the following specification taken in conjunction with the enclosed drawings.

In the proposed method a nucleotide substrate target molecule will be synthesized to contain specific hydrolysis site for the endonuclease of interest. The target molecule will be double stranded with the exception of a single stranded hydrolysis site. Additionally the target molecule will be engineered to be non complementary at the 3 end. The role of the non complementary sequence at the 3 end in this method will be to prevent DNA polymerase extension. To ensure the prevention of the polymerase extension the 3 end of the target molecule may be further modified.

The inventors have demonstrated that DNA polymerase and PCR can be employed to identify APE activity on a synthetic DNA oligonucleotide that contains an Apurinic Apyrimidinic site. Their approach utilizes a synthetic DNA oligonucleotide to serve as a substrate for APE which contains an internal tetrahydrofuran an abasic site analog and a 3 terminal dideoxy C 3 hydroxyl group to prevent extension by DNA polymerase until APE hydrolyzes the oligonucleotide. The sequences for both the substrate and the template were designed for this experiment and were all synthetic the sequences could easily be varied. This not only allows for future studies of the APE s interaction with the abasic site containing substrate but also the interaction of APE with the complementary duplex DNA. Amplification and detection of the substrate nucleotide is carried out via Taq polymerase and real time PCR.

When the DNA target molecule is introduced to the endonuclease it will catalyze the site specific hydrolysis of the phosphodiester backbone . Following hydrolysis DNA polymerase with 5 3 exonuclease activity is added. The DNA polymerase will catalyze the extension of the 3 end of the cut DNA strand. The polymerase will also hydrolyze the cut strand in the region downstream of the endonuclease cleavage portion B . After the cut strand has been extended along the entire length of the uncut strand a template molecule for PCR will have been generated. A quantitative PCR assay will be performed to determine the amount of cleavage of the endonuclease enzyme .

With particular reference to there is described the introduction of a synthetic nucleotide containing an apurinic apyrimidinic site to endonuclease followed by endonuclease hydrolysis at the site. More particularly with reference to there is schematically shown the method of this invention involving the introduction of an endonuclease to a synthetic nucleotide containing an apurinic apyrimidinic site in order to cleave the phosphodiester backbone.

Note particularly in the arrow directed to the Apurinic Apyrimidinic site which is to be cleaved and in note the site has been cleaved into strands A and B.

With particular reference to segment B is destroyed by 5 to 3 exonuclease activity of DNA polymerase and segment A is extended with DNA polymerase.

Recombinant APE1 at 10 000 units ml in 50 glycerol was purchased from NEW ENGLAND BIOLABS. One unit is defined as the amount of enzyme required to hydrolyze 20 pmol of a 34 bp oligonucleotide duplex containing a single AP site in a 10 ul reaction volume over one hour at 37 C. The reaction buffer consisted of 50 mM potassium acetate 20 mM Tris acetate 10 mM magnesium acetate pH 7.9 and 1 mM dithiothreitol.

All oligonucleotides primers and probes were purchased from GENE LINK INC. Hawthorne N.Y. . The two oligonucleotides that are specific to this technique are designated the substrate and the template. The oligonucleotide with sequence 5 GGGGTTTTGG GTTTTTTTAA TTTTAGGTTG TGGTTGTGGT TGTCGGXGAC GTGTTGGTTT TT 3ddC 3 SEQ. ID No. 1 serving as the substrate for APE contains the tetrahydrofuran an abasic analog X and a 3 dideoxy C to prevent extension by DNA polymerase. The oligonucleotide with sequence 5 CATTTCGACC TACGATACGC GATCCAGTGT TTGTATGGAT CCTGAGTTTT TCCAACACGT CTCCGACAAC CACAACCACA ACCATTTT 3ddC 3 SEQ. ID. No. 2 referred to as the template contains a region complementary to the substrate oligonucleotide to form the double strand region required by APE. Forward primer reverse primer and probe have sequences respectively as follows 5 GGGGTTTTGG GTTTTTTTAA TTTTA 3 SEQ. ID. No. 3 5 CATTTCGACC TACGATACGC 3 SEQ. ID No. 4 and 5 FAM TCCAGTGTTT GTATGGATCC TGAGT TAMRA 3 SEQ. ID No. 5 . All oligonucleotides were purified by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis before use. To minimize the possibility of the synthetic substrate exhibiting secondary structures computational software was utilized during the design to determine oligonucleotide molecular weight melting temperature estimated absorbance coefficients inter molecular self complementarily estimation and intra molecular hairpin loop formation http www.basic.northwestern.edu biotools oligocalc.html http www.idtdna.com analyzer Applications OligoAnalyzer Default.aspx .

The sequence of the bases are not shown complementary in order to prevent Taq polymerase from extending the substrate DNA until the APE cuts the substrate DNA. Said another way the strands are complementary except for the 3 end of the substrate and was designed with a 3ddC 3 block and is non complementary to prevent Taq polymerase from extending the substrate molecule until it is cut by the APE.

To perform the APE activity assay 1 ul of 100 uM substrate oligonucleotide was hybridized to 1 ul of 100 pM template oligonucleotide by briefly vortexing at room temperature. To this 1 U of APE1 1 ul of 10 reaction buffer and 6 ul of molecular grade water were added. The reaction mixture was incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. then a 5 ul aliquot was added to the PCR reaction mixture consisting of 12.5 ul Bio Rad master mix 1 ul forward primer 1 ul reverse primer 1 ul probe and 4.5 ul water.

After determining that the substrate and the template oligonucleotides efficiently hybridize to one another the reagents where cycled separately and in combination without addition of APE to ensure that false amplification would not occur. The final two reaction conditions contained a substrate oligonucleotide referred to as cut substrate . This oligonucleotide was designed to simulate a DNA substrate oligonucleotide that had been hydrolyzed by APE. The cut substrate demonstrated that once the 3 hydroxly block was liberated DNA polymerase could extend the substrate molecule to allow PCR amplification to proceed . Post run polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was performed to confirm florescence data from the real time probe hydrolysis.

Real time PCR was performed using a BIO RAD LABORATORIES Hercules Calif. ICYCLER using BIO RAD LABORATORIES IQTM SUPERMIX. Cycle times were an initial step at 95 C. for 10 minutes followed by an amplification program of 50 cycles of 3 seconds at 95 C. 5 seconds at 61 C. and 20 seconds at 72 C. with fluorescence acquisition in relative florescent units at the end of each extension. Melt curves were performed following amplification by utilizing BIO RAD LABORATORIES IQTM SYBR GREEN SUPERMIX and a protocol with a 1 minute melt at 95 C. and 0.5 C. steps to 65 C. with 10 second dwell times.

The invention can be described as a method for the rapid and sensitive measurement of endonuclease activity comprising the steps of 

An alternative description involves a method for the rapid and sensitive measurement of endonuclease activity comprising 

A further description of the invention calls for a method for the rapid and sensitive measurement of endonuclease activity comprising the following steps 

In the inventive method the hydrolysis cite for the endonuclease of interest is an Apurinic Apyrimidinic site.

The inventive method can be described as a method for the rapid and sensitive measurement of endonuclease activity comprising the steps of 

Nucleases take part in a variety of cellular events associated with the transfer and maintenance of genetic material. Due to their ability to recognize a wide variety of nucleic acid structures considerable efforts have been made to evaluate the role of nucleases in different cellular processes as well as their application as analytical tools to study nucleic acids structure. Among them the utility of single strand specific nucleases as analytical tools has been widely recognized and has led to their extensive application as probes for the determination of nucleic acid structure. A rapid screening assay to assess endonuclease activity would prove beneficial to the pharmaceutical industry as screening tool for assessing the activity of synthetic and natural enzyme preparations. An assay with increased sensitivity would enhance the capabilities of basic research attempting to identify and characterize new endonucleases. The herein disclosed invention accomplishes these objectives.

Agar plate method zymogram analysis Viscometry Spectrophotometric analysis and Atomic force microscopy are current techniques to assay endonuclease activity but none of these methods posses the potential sensitivity of the above described technology.

Enzymes that do not directly break the DNA backbone such as some DNA glycosylases can be analyzed using the technology of this invention because the AP site generated by their action can be subsequently enzymatically cleaved by the addition of APE. As technology improves the synthetic oligonucleotides used in this assay system can have far wider utility in drug screening to which it can readily adapt for use in the analysis of other DNA enzymes that work in concert with APE such as those that unwind the DNA duplex. In addition any enzyme or chemical that is able to cleave the substrate oligonucleotide backbone may also be assessed with this method.

DNA repair is also vital for the survival and propagation of bacterial pathogens. Bacteria undergo frequent replication providing the opportunity for rapid accumulation of potentially cytotoxic mutations. Bacteria are also subject to oxidative stress during pathogenesis and must overcome the devastating damage caused by the oxidative burst within phagocytic cells of the immune system. To date there have been few studies that have examined the role of base excision repair during pathogenesis despite its importance in maintenance of DNA integrity in the face of the innate host response to infection.

The technique of this invention may have a role in cancer research. Several preclinical and clinical studies have indicated that APE1 may be an attractive target for anticancer drug development. Depletion of intracellular APE1 sensitizes human cells to a variety of cytotoxic agents. Using either an antisense oligonucleotide or RNA interference approaches several groups have reported that APE1 down regulation confers sensitivity to mono functional alkylating agents such as methylmethane sulfonate MMS and oxidizing agents such as hydrogen peroxide. APE1 function may also be related to the pathogenesis of several human cancers and its expression may have prognostic and or predictive significance. For example APE1 is over expressed in several human tumors and its expression pattern appears to have prognostic significance in cancers of the breast lung and bone. In cervical cancers increased APE1 expression has been shown to be associated with radiation treatment resistance and a high level of nuclear APE1 was shown to correlate with resistance to chemotherapy and poor overall survival in patients with head and neck cancer. Given this evidence APE1 inhibition may prove an important factor in a cancer treatment regimen a drug screening technique may have great utility.

Obviously many modifications may be made without departing from the basic spirit of the present invention. Accordingly it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than has been specifically described herein.

