---

title: Bandwidth and cost management for ad hoc networks
abstract: A system and method is described herein for managing bandwidth and cost in connection with a plurality of sensors in an ad hoc network. The system and method receives sensor data that is provided from a plurality of sensors and constructs an ad hoc network among the plurality of sensors based on the sensor data. The system and method also receives and analyzes bandwidth information from each sensor in a group of sensors in the ad hoc network. Based on the analysis, the system and method then modifies a manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data, including sensor data and multimedia content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07792040&OS=07792040&RS=07792040
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07792040
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080730
---
The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for managing bandwidth and transmission costs associated with devices in a network such as devices in an ad hoc network of sensors.

Communication networks typically are cost based such that communication services e.g. voice data etc. communication services are provided by one or more service providers for a fee. A service provider typically offers various plans which dictate the cost of each plan e.g. fees associated with specialized and or recurring uses as well as the limits e.g. minimum and or maximum limits of network use and additional fees for overages associated with the plan. For example a voice plan is typically measured in minutes a data plan in data packets or total data transferred etc. While some plans are unlimited e.g. unlimited data transfer most plans impose some limits.

Bandwidth is a metric that is typically used in communications. For example in digital data transfer bandwidth provides a measure of the rate at which a unit of data e.g. bit byte kilobyte gigabyte etc. is transferred in a unit of time e.g. nanosecond second minute etc. Bandwidth can also be used as an umbrella term to refer to communication network access and availability. By way of a non limiting example in the case of mobile voice communication bandwidth can be used as a measure of a number of minutes e.g. anytime minutes night weekend minutes family friends minutes nationwide i.e. long distance minutes etc. Mobile voice communication network providers typically offer a number of mobile voice plans each of which typically has a certain number of minutes for a set monthly fee with additional minutes being charged at a higher fee. By way of another non limiting example in a case of mobile data communications bandwidth can be measured by the amount of data transferred e.g. n megabits or megabytes gigabits or gigabytes etc. By way of another non limiting example an instant messaging plan can impose limits on the number of messages or the amount of data transferred. A similar approach can be taken for other types of communication and communication networks including WiFi Bluetooth etc.

A bandwidth limitation is typically set for a specific time period e.g. a monthly limit. It is likely that a user will either exceed the plan s bandwidth which results in additional cost to the user or the user will have an amount of unused bandwidth which results in an unnecessary cost to the user. While a minority of plans may allow unused bandwidth to rollover to the next month this feature is typically not offered and there is no way for users to share or exchange bandwidth in real time on an ad hoc basis.

Bandwidth limitations such as those imposed by bandwidth plan providers can constrain the capacity to exchange data. In addition while multiple different paths may exist to exchange data no analysis is performed to determine the one or more optimal paths for the data exchange. By way of a non limiting example there is no capacity to pool available unused bandwidth resources and determine and compare costs associated with the various alternatives available from such a pooling so as to select the one or more optimal paths for specific data exchange at specific times.

The present disclosure addresses such failings and provides a system and method that can leverage bandwidth information provided by a variety of sensors sensor enabled devices and or objects a sensor enabled device and or object is referred to hereinafter for simplicity as a sensor including sensors associated with different types of networks and network frequencies and carriers to generate a database of real time bandwidth availability that can be used for the provisioning of available bandwidth allocation services. Additionally a system and method is also needed that intelligently manages the manner in which bandwidth is allocated to sensors so that bandwidth can be optimized and cost can be minimized at a device object level a group level and or at a system level.

Advantageously bandwidth limitations that can constrain data exchanges such as that imposed by bandwidth plan providers can be overcome by pooling available unused bandwidth resources associating a cost with each of the various bandwidth resource alternatives e.g. voice data instant messaging Bluetooth WiFi broadband access etc. in the pool and allocating the available bandwidth taking into account the associated costs. The various bandwidth resource alternatives can be analyzed e.g. a cost analysis to determine one or more optimal paths for the data exchange. By way of a non limiting example the costs associated with using a given one or more available unused bandwidth resources for data exchange can be determined and compared with other alternatives available from such a pooling so as to select the one or more optimal paths for data exchange e.g. one or more paths that provide the greatest cost efficiencies. By way of another non limiting example analysis and comparison of various alternatives can be based on other criteria in addition to or in place of cost associated with use of a bandwidth resource such as a rate at which data is to be exchanged a sensor s available power importance of the data and or data exchange data security reliability proximity location etc. The data that is exchanged using the one or more optimal paths can comprise without limitation analog or digital voice multimedia content sensor as well as other types of data.

In addition and advantageously pooling of bandwidth resources and selection of optimal bandwidth resource alternatives can encourage a commoditization of the provision of bandwidth thus driving the cost of bandwidth resources down and disassociating the exchange of data from the value added services that are actually requesting the exchange. Pooling of bandwidth also supports the donation or regular allocation of bandwidth by users to non profit school church community artist or other entity considered deserving of bandwidth sharing donation by the user.

A system and method is described herein for managing bandwidth for a plurality of sensors in an ad hoc network. The system and method leverages information concerning bandwidth requirements and constraints of a group of sensors e.g. spatially temporally socially or topically proximate sensors in the network to make decisions concerning bandwidth on a sensor group or network level. By continuously monitoring the bandwidth needs and status of sensors in the ad hoc network the system and method can balance the bandwidth needs of the sensors by dynamically and adaptively determining and or changing the manner in which one or more sensors exchange data e.g. sensor or multimedia content data via the ad hoc network.

In particular a method for managing bandwidth in an ad hoc network is described herein. In accordance with the method sensor data is provided for a plurality of sensors. Sensor data can include without limitation bandwidth information location information power available power consumption rates and history user profile path or other analytics data social connection association and topic to person place event or thing relation data as produced by users carrying devices and sensors as they move through space and time in their daily lives. An ad hoc network is then constructed among the plurality of sensors based on some or all of the received sensor data. In accordance with one or more embodiments construction of the ad hoc network is further based on user specified preferences and requirements. Bandwidth information e.g. availability cost transfer rate security amount of available bandwidth usage etc. associated with each sensor in the group in the ad hoc network is then analyzed. Based on the analysis a manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data is determined. In accordance with one or more embodiments the manner in which data is exchanged is determined to be the least cost and fastest data exchange route given available bandwidth.

In accordance with the foregoing method determining the manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data may include determining a route by which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data determining a rate at which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data and or allocating an amount of bandwidth of one or more sensors in the group to another sensor in the group wherein the allocated bandwidth is used in a data exchange for the other sensor in the group. Determining the manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data may also include causing a first sensor in the group to collect data from a second sensor in the group over a local network connection and to provide the collected data on behalf of the second sensor.

The foregoing method may further include taking additional actions based on the analysis of the bandwidth information. These additional actions may include causing a first sensor in the group to disseminate data received from a bandwidth and cost optimization system to a second sensor in the group over a local network connection based on the analysis of the bandwidth information modifying a frequency in which at least one sensor in the group provides bandwidth information based on the analysis of the bandwidth information and or modifying a frequency in which at least one sensor in the group provides bandwidth information based on an analysis of the bandwidth information and power consumption information associated with the at least one sensor.

In addition to determining the manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data based on the analysis of the bandwidth information the foregoing method may also take into account other factors including a capacity of each sensor in the group to provide available bandwidth a cost associated with the available bandwidth a bandwidth donation or allocation e.g. a user specified donation or allocation a user defined hierarchy of data exchange networks or paths and or a user defined hierarchy associated with the sensors in a group of sensors e.g. an actual or potential group of sensors.

A system is also described herein. The system includes a sensor interface manager a bandwidth tracking manager and a bandwidth management manager. The sensor interface manager is configured to receive sensor data provided from a plurality of sensors. The bandwidth tracking manager is configured to construct an ad hoc network among the plurality of sensors based on some or all of the received sensor data. In accordance with one or more embodiments the bandwidth tracking manager is configured to construct the ad hoc network based further on user specified preferences and requirements. The bandwidth management manager is configured to analyze bandwidth information associated with each sensor in a group in the ad hoc network and to determine a manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data based on the analysis of the bandwidth information. In accordance with one or more embodiments the manner in which data is exchanged is determined to be the least cost and fastest data exchange route given available bandwidth.

In the foregoing system the bandwidth management manager may be configured to determine the manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data by determining a rate at which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data by determining a route by which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data and or by allocating an amount of bandwidth of one or more sensors in the group to another sensor in the group wherein the allocated bandwidth is used in a data exchange for the other sensor in the group. The bandwidth management manager may also be configured to determine the manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data by causing a first sensor in the group to collect data from a second sensor in the group over a local network connection and to provide the collected data on behalf of the second sensor.

The bandwidth management manager may be further configured to perform a variety of other actions based on the analysis of the bandwidth information including causing a first sensor in the group to disseminate data received from a bandwidth cost optimization system to a second sensor in the group over a local network connection modifying a frequency in which at least one sensor in the group provides the bandwidth information based on the analysis of the bandwidth information and or modifying a frequency in which at least one sensor in the group provides bandwidth information based on the analysis of the bandwidth information and power consumption information associated with the at least one sensor.

The bandwidth management manager configured to determine a manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data based on an analysis of the bandwidth information can be based on other factors in addition to the analysis of bandwidth information. These additional factors may include a capacity of each sensor in the group to provide available bandwidth a cost associated with the available bandwidth a bandwidth donation or allocation e.g. a user specified bandwidth donation or allocation a user defined hierarchy of data exchange networks or paths and or a user defined hierarchy associated with the sensors in a group of sensors e.g. an actual or potential group of sensors.

A computer program product is also described herein. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium having computer program code recorded thereon for enabling a processing unit to manage bandwidth in an ad hoe network. The computer program code includes code to enable the processing unit to receive sensor data provided from a plurality of sensors construct an ad hoe network among the plurality of sensors based on some or all of the received sensor data analyze bandwidth information associated with each sensor in a group of sensors in the ad hoc network and determine the manner in which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data based on the analysis of the bandwidth information. In accordance with one or more embodiments the manner in which data is exchanged is determined to be the least cost and fastest data exchange route given the available bandwidth. In accordance with one or more embodiments construction of the ad hoc network can be further based on user specified preferences and requirements.

In the foregoing computer program product the code to determine a manner in which at least one sensor exchanges data includes code to determine a route by which at least one sensor exchanges data code to change a rate at which at least one sensor in the group exchanges data and or code to allocate an amount of bandwidth of one or more sensors in the group to another of the sensors in the group wherein the allocated bandwidth is used in a data exchange for the other sensor in the group. The code to determine a manner in which at least one sensor exchanges data may also comprise code to enable a processing unit to cause a first sensor in the group to collect data from a second sensor in the group over a local network connection and to provide the collected data on behalf of the second sensor.

In the foregoing computer program product the computer program code may further include code to enable a processing unit to cause a first sensor in the group to disseminate information received from a bandwidth cost optimization system to a second sensor in the group over a local network connection based on the analysis of the bandwidth information code to enable the processing unit to modify a frequency in which at least one sensor in the group provides the bandwidth information based on the analysis of the bandwidth information and or code to enable the processing unit to modify a frequency in which at least one sensor in the group provides bandwidth information based on the analysis of the bandwidth information and power consumption information associated with the at least one sensor.

In the foregoing computer program product the code to determine a manner in which at least one sensor exchanges data may comprise code to enable the processing unit to determine the manner in which at least one sensor in the group provides sensor data based on the analysis of the bandwidth information and based on additional factors. These additional factors may include a capacity of each sensor in the group to provide available bandwidth a cost associated with the available bandwidth a bandwidth donation or allocation e.g. a user specified donation or allocation a user defined hierarchy of data exchange networks or paths and or a user defined hierarchy associated with the sensors in a group of sensors e.g. an actual or potential group of sensors.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a system is provided that comprises one or more computing devices configured to provide functionality in accordance with such embodiments. In accordance with one or more embodiments functionality is embodied in steps of a method performed by at least one computing device. In accordance with one or more embodiments program code or logic to implement functionality in accordance with one or more such embodiments is embodied in by and or on a computer readable medium.

Further features and advantages of the embodiments of the present disclosure as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the disclosure are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

The features and advantages of embodiments of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

First interface is configured to allow users of devices to interact with BCO engine for the purpose of specifying whether or not they wish to opt in to receive BCO services from BCO engine . First interface may be further configured to allow a user to specify which BCO services should be provided to the user and to specify preferences concerning how such services should be delivered. First interface may be still further configured to allow a user to specify preferences concerning the manner in which one or more sensors associated with the user are to be tracked by BCO engine the manner in which available bandwidth associated with the one or more sensors are allocated and or the manner in which available bandwidth is allocated for use by the user. In one embodiment of the present disclosure first interface comprises an application programming interface API that can be used to build applications by which user systems devices may interact with BCO engine although embodiments are not so limited.

Second interface is configured to allow data requesters to interact with BCO engine for the purpose of requesting bandwidth for use in accessing a communications network e.g. requesting optimal network bandwidth allocation to exchange data via the network the bandwidth being provided by one or more sensors of one or more registered users of BCO engine . By way of a non limiting example a data request can be generated by a user of a device which can be a sensor or an application or process executing on device an information object a real world entity a proxy etc. Second interface may also be configured to perform other functions to be described in more detail herein. In one embodiment of the present disclosure second interface comprises an API that can be used to build applications by which systems owned or operated by data requesters may interact with BCO engine e.g. request bandwidth for data exchange although the embodiments of the present disclosure are not so limited.

In accordance with one or more embodiments BCO engine is a system that is configured to track overtime available bandwidth and associated costs as well as sensors that can provide the available bandwidth. BCO engine is further configured to use the information including information concerning available bandwidth and costs to support the provisioning of BCO services. In accordance with one or more embodiments BCO engine can be configured to track the location of sensors over time so that such location information can be used in conjunction with bandwidth information in support of the provisioning of BCO services. As will be described in more detail herein in accordance with embodiments BCO engine is configured to perform a location tracking function the BCO engine is configured to perform the location tracking function in part by receiving sensor data from sensors over sensor network . BCO engine is further configured to track bandwidth which is made available via bandwidth resources of the sensors based on received and or derived information. BCO engine is further configured to identify an ad hoc network among the sensors in sensor network e.g. from the sensors that provide sensor data to the BCO engine .

In accordance with one or more embodiments the one or more sensors in the ad hoc network have available bandwidth and associated cost information. Optionally location information for the sensors in the ad hoc network can be collected based on the information that is received from the sensors retrieved from stored information and or derived from other information. In embodiments of the present disclosure the BCO services provided by BCO engine identify one or more optimal paths by which data is exchanged using one or more sensors. An optimal path can be determined based on such factors as cost associated with use of a sensor s available bandwidth a rate at which data is to be exchanged a sensor s available power importance of the data and or data exchange data security reliability proximity location etc. In accordance with one or more embodiments the BCO engine identifies an optimal path for data exchange based on peering real time spacio temporal connections and routes social relationships among users devices and or the type and sensitivity of the data that is to be exchanged. By way of a non limiting example a route can comprise a communication channel with a server via a one or more connections established using one or more bandwidth resources associated with one or more sensors. Bandwidth resources can be relative to one or more networks which can include without limitation Bluetooth wireless in data or voice frequencies infrared acoustic coupling cable or other terrestrial fiber network.

Sensors are intended to represent any device or object that can include sensing technology including but not limited to handheld user devices e.g. mobile telephones personal digital assistants handheld computers media players handheld navigation devices handheld scanners cameras vehicles e.g. automobiles airplanes trucks trains office equipment e.g. computers printers copiers appliances inventory freight parcels or commercial products to name only a few. The sensing technology may include but is not limited to WiFi sensing technology cellular telephone sensing technology Bluetooth sensing technology or radio frequency identification RFID sensing technology.

Communication between BCO engine and sensor network takes place over third interface . In one embodiment of the present disclosure third interface comprises an APT that can be used to build applications by which sensors can communicate with BCO engine although the embodiment is not so limited.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the BCO engine allows users to either automatically or manually trade off between cost and speed or rate of data exchange. By way of a non limiting example data can be exchanged using one or more available bandwidth resources that minimize the time it takes for the data to be communicated or data can be exchanged using available bandwidth resources that require more time for the data to be communicated with the first alternative having a greater associated cost than the second alternative. In addition and in accordance with one or more embodiments the sensitivity of the data being exchanged can be taken into account such that sensitive information is routed through secure connections and can be encrypted or split into sub portions in order to optimize secure delivery.

BCO engine may also take into account the amount of bandwidth that must be allocated to one or more sensors in a group of sensors in order exchange sensor or other data. BCO engine may determine that allocating bandwidth to a first type of sensor will yield more bandwidth and cost efficiencies at some level e.g. sensor group or system level than allocating bandwidth to a second type of sensor in the same group. In this situation BCO engine may increase the bandwidth allocation to the first type of sensor while maintaining or reducing the bandwidth allocated to the second type of sensor thereby achieving bandwidth and or cost efficiencies optimization with respect to the first and second types of sensor.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the BCO engine is provided by one entity that controls disparate networks carriers and sources of data requests. In such a case the BCO engine is configured to provide BCO services to users as part of an overall optimization profile intended to minimize actual data transfers and maximize leveraging logical structures and processing of sensor and beacon data to make data routing decisions. In accordance with one or more alternative embodiments the BCO engine is configured to provide a multi network aggregating service which aggregates bandwidth resources of disparate networks carriers and sources of network data requests. The BCO services provided by the BCO engine in connection with such alternate embodiments can be funded by the networks carriers and or users and compensation could be in the form of money bandwidth allocation or other non monetary means e.g. certification endorsement co branding etc.

User interface is a component that is configured to allow a user to interact with BCO engine from a remote location for the purpose of specifying whether or not the consumer wishes to receive BCO services from BCO engine and to optionally specify preferences concerning the manner in which such services are to be delivered. User interface may also be used to allow the user to register the user s devices e.g. sensors and or other devices with available bandwidth such as a computing device that has Internet connectivity via a high speed connection. In addition user interface may be used to allow the user to identify the bandwidth capabilities and costs of plans associated with each of the sensors and or other devices. In accordance with one or more embodiments as a part of terms of use or service users agree to share available bandwidth and bandwidth resources to pool bandwidth and bandwidth resources in order to save costs and or optimize delivery.

User interface may also be configured to allow a user to provide information relating to the manner in which one or more devices or objects associated with the user are to be tracked by BCO engine . Information provided by a user via user interface is stored in user data database . User interface may be implemented using a Web service and a standard set of Web APIs for utilizing the Web service. Web applications built upon the Web service may be published by an entity that owns and or operates BCO engine or by other entities. Such Web applications are accessed by users using Web browsers in a well known fashion.

The system device used by the user to interact with user interface may be one of sensors depicted in or some other system device. In one embodiment communication between users and user interface occurs over the Internet. However the embodiment is not so limited and communication between users and user interface may occur over any type of network or combination of networks including wide area networks local area networks private networks public networks packet networks circuit switched networks and wired or wireless networks.

User data database is configured to store data associated with particular users that is used by BCO engine to determine which BCO services should be provided to a particular user and the manner in which such services should be provided. To this end user data database includes such information as without limitation a list of sensors of the bandwidth resources associated with each sensor that a user has registered with the BCO engine and plan cost and usage information associated with each registered bandwidth resource and associated user preference information regarding how BCO services are to be delivered.

User data database is also configured to store user provided information regarding one or more sensors that are to be tracked e.g. tracking of bandwidth and or location by BCO engine for the purposes of determining a manner in which a user s device object is to used for purposes of provisioning bandwidth based on an analysis of bandwidth information. User data database may also be configured to store user preferences concerning how and when such sensors are to be tracked.

User data database may also be configured to store other data about a user that can be used to perform BCO services for the user such as data relating to a user s identity activities interests preferences and or social network. This data may be actively provided by a user such as via user interface collected from sensors via sensor network or some other channel provided to BCO engine from some other network system or database that aggregates such data or by any combination of the foregoing.

Data requester interface is a component that is configured to allow a requester or offeror and their systems to interact with BCO engine to obtain e.g. to request or purchase bandwidth and or to offer bandwidth e.g. for sale donation trade etc. in accordance with associated or desired terms. A data requestor can be without limitation a user having one or more sensors bandwidth resources registered with the BCO engine or some other entity such as a user of a device which can be a sensor or an application or process executing on device an information object a real world entity a proxy etc. Other functions of the data requestor interface may include specifying the associated or desired terms of the offer request which can be used to match bandwidth needs with available bandwidth. Information provided by a requester or offeror through interaction with data requester interface is stored in cost data database .

In accordance with one or more embodiments BCO services and data requester interface provide a mechanism for an entity e.g. user network cooperative collective etc. to post a request for or an offer of bandwidth and the associated or desired terms of the request or offer. BCO engine is configured to compare bandwidth resources and associated bandwidth availability to determine one or more matches and to maintain a dynamic prioritized list of currently available bandwidth resources associated with each request or offer. The bandwidth resources requests and or offers as well as the terms associated with any or all of these can be posted or otherwise communicated to one or more requesters and or offerors in full or in some limited manner. For example in one embodiment a user can submit a request to either transmit or receive a large file to BCO engine via data requester interface receive options of varying cost and speed and then select appropriately based upon the user s current needs and the options that are currently available for the user. Alternatively matches can be automatically determined based on user specified negotiation terms and or limits set by the user or the user s proxy. A match can comprise more than one type of bandwidth resource e.g. instant messaging voice etc. and can be identified as a single summarized data exchange circuit or the match can be identified with some or all of the bandwidth resource segments being exposed.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure requesters and or offerors and their systems communicate with data requester interface using applications built upon a predefined API. Such applications may be published by an entity that owns and or operates BCO engine or by other entities. Communication between the requesters and or offerors and data requester interface may occur over the Internet. However the embodiment is not so limited and communication between the requesters and or offerors and data requestor interface may occur over any type of network or combination of networks including wide area networks local area networks private networks public networks packet networks circuit switched networks and wired or wireless networks.

In accordance with one or more embodiments an offer can comprise a donation e.g. a charitable donation which can be matched with a recipient e.g. a requester requesting a donation. The donation can comprise a transfer of available bandwidth from one entity to another. The donor and or recipient can be anonymous. In accordance with one or more embodiments the offer can comprise a loan e.g. a microloan of available bandwidth with the intention that the loaned bandwidth is paid back e.g. in the form of available bandwidth or other currency.

As noted above certain information provided by a requester or offeror through interaction with data requester interface is stored in cost data database . This information may include for example data about each requester requestee offeror offeree request offer request offer terms etc.

SNI manager is a component that is configured to manage the interface and communication between BCO engine and sensors residing on or currently connected to sensor network . In accordance with one or more embodiments SNI manager is configured to facilitate an exchange of data e.g. multimedia content sensor data configuration commands etc. associated with BCO services to sensors over sensor network . In accordance with one or more embodiments SNI manager is configured to establish an actual or logical peer to peer or p2p network among users devices sensors and beacons which network can be used in the exchange of data in order to facilitate bandwidth and cost optimization. In accordance with one or more such embodiments the bandwidth tracking manager is configured to use a p2p network among users devices sensors and beacons to construct and or update a bandwidth cost graph for sensors in an ad hoc network and their associated available bandwidth resources and costs. A bandwidth cost graph provides a real time map of available bandwidth and associated costs. In addition the bandwidth cost graph can be used to identify a nexus of users and their relationships topics and movements through space and time. Depending upon the implementation SNI manager may also be configured to interoperate with third party carriers and networks to affect the exchange of multimedia content and or other data such as sensor data.

As noted above sensor data received from sensors is stored in sensor logs database . This sensor data is then used by bandwidth tracking manager to identify an ad hoc network and bandwidth and optionally location information of the sensors is obtained and a corresponding bandwidth cost graph is constructed for the ad network using the obtained information.

As will be described in more detail herein this sensor data may include a unique identifier ID of the reporting sensor one or more unique IDs corresponding respectively to one or more beacons sensed by the reporting sensor and one or more time codes indicating when each of the one or more beacons was respectively sensed by the reporting sensor. In accordance with one or more embodiments a bandwidth and cost profile exists or can be determined based on received and or stored information for each of the beacons sensed. In accordance with one or more embodiments the sensor data includes bandwidth resource usage data which can be used to update bandwidth availability information.

Other information that may be provided as part of the sensor data may include a signal strength associated with each of the one or more beacons and a time of transmission of the sensor data from the reporting sensor to BCO engine . The sensor data may still further include metadata associated with the reporting sensor such as location information or other information associated with the reporting sensor.

Bandwidth tracking manager is a component that is configured to use sensor data from sensor logs database to identify one or more of the sensors for an ad hoc network to track the bandwidth of the sensors and to construct and or update a bandwidth cost graph . The manner in which bandwidth tracking manager operates to perform this function will be described in detail below. Once bandwidth tracking manager has determined the current relative or actual bandwidth of a sensor of the ad hoc network it uses that information for a bandwidth cost graph that represents all sensors in a network e.g. an ad hoc network or sensor network being tracked by BCO engine and their current available bandwidths and the cost s associated with each of the available bandwidths. In accordance with one or more embodiments the bandwidth cost graph is used to identify a data exchange path comprising one or more data exchange segments that can be used to exchange data between one or more entities where a segment can be provided using a bandwidth resource and corresponding available bandwidth of a sensor . In accordance with one or more embodiments the graph also takes account a location of some or all of the sensors and relative proximities.

Bandwidth matching manager is a component that is configured to match information concerning available bandwidth of bandwidth resources provided by one or more sensors determined using bandwidth cost graph to a request or offer made by a data requestor e.g. stored in a cost data database . In a case of a request for bandwidth bandwidth matching manager is configured to facilitate identification of one or more bandwidth resources from available bandwidth resource selections using bandwidth cost graph . Other factors may be used in addition to cost and availability to match a request with one or more bandwidth resources such as without limitation a rate at which data is to be exchanged a sensor s available power importance of the data and or data exchange data security reliability proximity location etc. In accordance with one or more embodiments some or all of such other factors can be associated with each sensor represented in the bandwidth cost graph together with bandwidth and cost information. In a case of an offer of bandwidth bandwidth matching manager is configured to facilitate identification of one or more entities e.g. one or more data requesters that wish to make use of the offer of available bandwidth.

The bandwidth cost graph can be used to identify multiple available bandwidth alternatives from which an alternative can be automatically selected for the requester. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth matching manager can facilitate identification by automatically making the selection based on one or more predetermined criteria which can include user specified criteria. Alternatively the multiple alternatives can be presented to the requester for selection by the requester or some other entity on behalf of the requester.

In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth matching manager is further configured to compare available bandwidth e.g. in connection with an offer and at least one request for available bandwidth and maintains a dynamic prioritized list of currently available resources of the sensor network to satisfy each request or offer. As discussed above one or more optimal matches can be automatically selected. Alternatively the one or more optimal matches can be presented in the order of the priority assigned by bandwidth matching manager so that the requester can make the selection with knowledge of the assigned priorities. A match can be presented a single communication circuit which may comprise more than one segment or each match can be identified by the one or more segments that are to be used for the data exchange.

In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth matching manager is configured to facilitate resale of bandwidth. In accordance with one or more embodiments the resale of bandwidth could be an add on service or a third party run service. In either case bandwidth needs are matched with available bandwidth. A match e.g. a match between a bandwidth request and an offer is packaged and priced and a transaction involving a packaged bandwidth match can be billed and payment can be collected and allocated.

Bandwidth matching manager may also be configured to take into account user information other than bandwidth information when determining whether or not to match a bandwidth request with a bandwidth offer. This information may include for example data relating to a user s identity activities interests preferences or social network. Bandwidth matching manager may access this data from user data database .

In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth matching manager is configured to form bandwidth cooperatives or collectives using social relationships explicitly defined or implicitly derived based upon association past actions between users so as to facilitate the pooling of resources and distribution channels to minimize cost and maximize speed efficiency of data movements among pooled users devices. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth pooling can be used to enable or benefit public safety charitable or other donations. By way of some non limiting examples a 911 service can be given highest priority by bandwidth matching manager and or a non profit entity can be given a digital credit for a certain total or rates of transfer. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth can be pooled to support donation or regular allocation of bandwidth by users to non profit school church community artist or other entity considered deserving of bandwidth sharing donation by the user.

As users and devices move through the real world and come on and off the sensor network they always have dynamic bandwidth profiles that change based upon bandwidth usage which can be determined based on initial allocation and usage information. In accordance with one or more embodiments BCO engine is configured to take account of bandwidth and one or more other conditions used to define a profile. In addition to a bandwidth profile associated with a sensor other factors criteria associated with the data exchange e.g. a rate at which data is to be exchanged a sensor s available power importance of the data and or data exchange data security reliability proximity location etc. can also be taken into account and information related to one or more of these factors can be included in a bandwidth profile.

As discussed above in accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth tracking manager within BCO engine is configured to identify an ad hoc network comprising a plurality of sensors track the bandwidth and optionally other information such as location of such sensors and construct and or update a bandwidth cost graph . In particular bandwidth tracking manager uses time coded sensor data received from each of the sensors to identify the ad hoc network. In a case that the sensor data includes bandwidth cost information e.g. time remaining or usage information bandwidth tracking manager can use the received bandwidth cost information and can further use stored and or derived bandwidth cost information. The bandwidth and cost information for each of the sensors identified for an ad hoc network can then used to construct and or update a bandwidth cost graph for use in providing BCO services.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the sensor data can be used to determine a current location of each of the sensors relative to one or more beacons. As used herein the term beacon broadly refers to any unique device or object that is discoverable or detectable by a sensor. Information received from sensors can include location information. Alternatively bandwidth tracking manager can leverage information relating to the effective transmission ranges of the beacons to determine the relative location of each of the plurality of sensors with respect to other sensors within the plurality of sensors. Where actual as opposed to relative location information is available for a particular sensor it can then be used to generate or augment location information associated with other sensors known to be spatially and temporally proximate to the particular sensor.

Sensor A and beacon may comprise any of a wide variety of well known sensor and beacon types. For example sensor A may comprise a first WiFI device and beacon may comprise a second WiFi device wherein the first WiFi device is capable of detecting the second WiFi device in a well known manner. Each of the first and second WiFi devices may comprise for example a WiFi user device or access point. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s WiFi refers to wireless networking technology built around the family of IEEE 802.11 standards. Conventional WiFi devices typically have a transmission range from 0 up to approximately 100 meters. A typical WiFi device can act as both a sensor and a beacon so it is possible that beacon is also capable of detecting other WiFi devices and of reporting related sensing information to BCO engine . WiFi devices can be either stationary or mobile so sensor A and beacon may also be stationary or mobile in this case.

As another example sensor A may comprise a cellular telephone and beacon may comprise a cellular tower wherein the cellular telephone is capable of detecting the cellular tower in a well known manner. A conventional cellular tower has a transmission range from 0 up to approximately 10 000 meters. Cellular telephones are capable of being carried from location to location by a user while cellular towers are stationary so in this case sensor A may be stationary or mobile while beacon will be stationary.

As a further example sensor A may comprise a first Bluetooth device and beacon may comprise a second Bluetooth device wherein the first Bluetooth device is capable of detecting the second Bluetooth device in a well known manner. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s Bluetooth refers to an industrial standard for wireless personal area networks PANs that is based on specifications developed and licensed by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group. Conventional Bluetooth devices typically have a transmission range from 0 up to approximately 10 meters. A typical Bluetooth device can act as both a sensor and a beacon so it is possible that beacon is also capable of detecting other Bluetooth devices and of reporting related sensing information to BCO engine . Bluetooth devices can be either stationary or mobile so sensor A and beacon may also be stationary or mobile in this case.

Sensor B can comprise any of the sensor types discussed above with regard to sensor A. Like sensor A sensor B is located within transmission range . Sensor B is capable of detecting beacon . In addition sensor B is capable of detecting and or communicating with sensor A and or beacon e.g. via a Bluetooth PAN. Sensor B can request an available source of bandwidth e.g. sensor A to exchange sensor or other data.

Table 1 below shows various sensor and beacon mobility use cases that may be supported by an embodiment of the present disclosure. In particular each entry in Table 1 describes a sensor beacon combination that can result in the generation and reporting of sensor data to BCO engine .

In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure BCO engine maintains information indicating whether one or more sensors or beacons are mobile or stationary and uses such information to enhance the manner in which bandwidth tracking manager identifies the ad hoc network. As discussed herein depending upon the implementation bandwidth information may be obtained through manual user input and or is automatically determined by BCO engine e.g. using bandwidth information supplied by the sensors plan bandwidth providers users etc. The bandwidth information automatically determined can be periodically audited to ensure that an accounting of available bandwidth and a bandwidth and cost profile associated with a sensor and or beacon is current and accurate and modifications to one or more of the premises used to automatically determine the bandwidth can be made based on the outcome of the audit. A similar audit can be performed on any technique used to a location and or a degree of mobility of a sensor or beacon.

Depending on the sensor beacon type the unique IDs associated with sensor and beacon may be MAC addresses respectively associated with sensor and beacon . This approach may be used for example whether sensor and beacon are WiFi or Bluetooth devices. However other methods of assigning unique IDs to sensor and beacon may be used. In accordance with one or more embodiments BCO engine can use sensor network to ping an available bandwidth source e.g. sensor to determine whether or not the source and the associated bandwidth remain available via sensor network .

Bandwidth tracking manager determines the relative location of sensor with respect to other sensors within the plurality of sensors using the location information. A relative bandwidth and cost profile can be established for sensor which comprises an actual or estimate of the bandwidth and cost associated with each of beacons and with respect to other sensors. The relative bandwidth and cost profiles associated with sensor and the sensed beacons and determined by bandwidth tracking manager are a part of the bandwidth cost graph for the one or more sensors identified in the ad hoc network and or sensor network or some portion thereof which includes sensor . The bandwidth cost graph is used by BCO engine to provide BCO services e.g. allocate bandwidth in accordance with one or more embodiments.

As shown in sensor beacon has entered into or resides in a current transmission range of sensor beacon and is therefore capable of detecting sensor beacon and or exchanging data with sensor beacon . Likewise sensor beacon has entered into or resides in a current transmission range of sensor beacon and is therefore capable of detecting and or exchanged data with sensor beacon . Responsive to detecting sensor beacon sensor beacon sends sensor data to BCO engine via sensor network that includes a unique ID of sensor beacon a unique ID associated with sensor beacon and a time code indicating when sensor beacon was sensed by sensor beacon as well as other information as discussed in previous examples. Likewise responsive to detecting sensor beacon sensor beacon sends sensor data to BCO engine via sensor network that includes the unique ID of sensor beacon the unique ID of sensor beacon and a time code indicating when sensor beacon was sensed by sensor beacon as well as other information as discussed in previous examples. Sensors beacons and are capable of exchanging data via sensor network . In accordance with one or more embodiments as discussed above bandwidth tracking manager is configured to use relative bandwidth and cost profiles associated with sensor beacon and sensor beacon to generate a bandwidth and cost graph of an ad hoc network of sensors e.g. sensors that have provided sensor data to BCO engine which includes sensor beacon and sensor beacon and which can be used by BCO engine to provide BCO services such as allocating available bandwidth of one or both of sensors beacons and .

Sensing manager is configured to scan one or more wireless channels via network interface in order to detect the transmissions of any beacons. If a beacon is detected sensing manager obtains a unique ID associated with the beacon either from the originally received beacon transmission or via a subsequent exchange of messages with the beacon and optionally measures or otherwise obtains a signal strength associated with transmissions from the beacon. Sensing manager is also configured to generate a time code indicating a time at which the beacon was detected. Sensing manager is further configured to provide the IDs of the currently sensed beacons the associated time codes and optionally the signal strength data to sensor data publisher . Sensing manager is configured to perform this scanning function which is also referred to herein as polling on a periodic basis. In an embodiment the frequency at which polling is performed may be controlled by modifying a configurable polling frequency parameter.

Depending upon the implementation sensing manager may also provide additional information to sensor data publisher concerning the currently sensed beacons such as the channel on which a beacon was sensed an indication of beacon type or an indication of directionality of a currently sensed beacon. In addition and in accordance with one or more embodiments sensing manager provides bandwidth related information associated with the currently sensed beacons e.g. beacon type provider information data transfer rate usage cost information etc.

Sensor data publisher receives the foregoing information from sensing manager and accumulates it in a buffer for subsequent transmission to BCO engine . Sensor data publisher may add additional metadata to the information before sending it to BCO engine . This additional metadata may include for example bandwidth related information and or location information associated with sensor beacon . Bandwidth related information may be provided by a bandwidth manager as discussed below. The location information may include for example location information provided by a GPS module or other positioning module within sensor beacon . Alternatively such location information may include location information e.g. a zip code street address or the like manually provided by a user of sensor beacon via a user interface of sensor beacon not shown in . Such location information may further include event information manually provided by a user of sensor beacon from which a location may be inferred. Additionally such location information may be obtained by mapping a user to a particular event e.g. by accessing a user calendar or by some other means wherein the event is associated with a particular location. Still further such location information may include location information received by sensor beacon from another device via a local connection wherein the local connection may be for example a Bluetooth link an infrared link or some other wired or wireless link.

Sensor data publisher is configured to transmit this accumulated sensor data on a periodic basis to BCO engine . In an embodiment the frequency at which such reporting is performed may be controlled by modifying a configurable reporting frequency parameter.

Like sensor beacon sensor beacon also includes a number of communicatively connected components including a network interface a sensing manager and a sensor data publisher . These components perform similar functions to network interface sensing manager and sensor data publisher respectively as described above in reference to sensor beacon .

As discussed above sensor beacon and sensor beacon can exchange data with each other and or sensor network e.g. using available bandwidth allocated by BCO engine .

Although depicts two sensor beacons and each of which is capable of sensing the other it is noted that such sensing need not be bi directional. In other words in alternate embodiments sensor beacon may be capable of detecting sensor beacon or sensor beacon may be capable of detecting sensor beacon but not both. It is also noted that the foregoing functions of sensing and reporting of sensor data as performed by each sensor beacon and may advantageously be performed without pairing with the other device.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which a sensor detects one or more beacons. Step may occur responsive to the performance of a periodic polling function by the sensor as described above. At step the sensor obtains one or more unique IDs respectively associated with each of the one or more detected beacons. Step may also include obtaining other information associated with each of the one or more detected beacons including but not limited to a signal strength associated with each of the one or more detected beacons a channel on which each beacon was sensed an indication of each beacon type or an indication of directionality of each currently sensed beacon. At step the sensor generates one or more time codes indicating a time at which each of the detected beacons was respectively detected. At step the sensor optionally adds metadata including but not limited to location information and provider generated sensor generated or user provided bandwidth information to the foregoing sensor data. At step the sensor transmits a unique ID of the sensor the unique ID s and other information associated with the detected beacon s the time codes and the metadata to a BCO engine e.g. BCO engine . Step may occur responsive to the performance of a periodic reporting function by the sensor as described above.

Thus in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure numerous sensors including sensors that also operate as beacons provide sensor data to BCO engine wherein such sensor data identifies beacons that are currently detectable by each sensor and sensor beacon. This is illustrated in which shows a plurality of sensors shown as boxes labeled with an S wherein each sensor reports sensor data to BCO engine via sensor network . BCO engine uses such sensor data to determine the bandwidth information and optionally the relative proximity for each sensor in a plurality of sensors with respect to the other sensors in the plurality of sensors and to identify an ad hoc network comprising the plurality of sensors and to construct and or update a bandwidth cost graph based on such bandwidth information and optional proximity information. BCO engine may advantageously perform this function by obtaining sensor data from a variety of different sensor types e.g. WiFi cellular or Bluetooth and from sensors associated with different networks or telecommunications carriers.

The manner in which BCO engine operates to identify an ad hoc network based on the sensor data will now be described with reference to flowchart of . As shown in the method begins at step in which SNI manager receives sensor data from a plurality of sensors wherein the sensor data received from each of the plurality of sensors includes at least a unique ID associated with the sensor one or more unique IDs associated respectively with one or more beacons detected by the sensor and one or more time codes indicating when each of the one or more beacons was respectively detected by the sensor and optionally bandwidth information and or location information. SNI manager stores this sensor data in sensor logs database where it is accessible by bandwidth tracking manager .

At step bandwidth tracking manager accesses sensor logs database and extracts temporally proximate sensor data from the sensor data that was received in step . Bandwidth tracking manager performs this function by extracting sensor data that corresponds to a unique detection time or detection time period. By identifying sensor data corresponding to a unique detection time or detection time period bandwidth tracking manager is able to obtain a subset of the received sensor data corresponding to a particular instance in time or to a particular time window. In an embodiment this step is performed by analyzing the time codes associated with each set of sensor data wherein each time code indicates a time that a particular beacon was identified by a particular sensor. Because the time codes may be generated by sensors using local sensor time this step may also include normalizing the time codes. Normalizing the time codes may include for example converting each of the time codes to a system time.

At step bandwidth tracking manager identifies temporally and optionally spatially proximate sensors in the plurality of sensors based on the detected beacons identified by the temporally proximate sensor data. This step may include for example comparing the beacons detected by each of the sensors at the same time or during the same time period to determine which sensors are proximate to each other. For example if two sensors detect the same beacon as the same time or during the same time period it can be assumed that the two sensors are temporally as well as spatially proximate. As another example if two sensors that can also act as beacons detect each other at the same time or during the same time period it can be assumed that the two sensors are temporally and spatially proximate.

The manner in which the temporally proximate sensor data is analyzed by bandwidth tracking manager to perform the function of step may vary depending on the implementation and the amount of sensor data available for each sensor. For example the analysis performed by bandwidth tracking manager may take into account other information provided as part of the sensor data in determining whether sensors are temporally and spatially proximate such as the signal strength associated with each detected beacon a beacon type or an indication of directionality associated with each detected beacon. In determining temporal and spatial proximity bandwidth tracking manager may also utilize known information concerning the maximum transmission ranges associated with certain beacon types.

At step bandwidth tracking manager identifies an ad hoc network that comprises the sensors identified in step . The ad hoc network may be considered virtual in the sense that the sensors included in the network may not be physically connected to each other but can be capable of being or are communicatively connected to each other. Bandwidth tracking manager is configured to maintain the ad hoc network. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth tracking manager uses bandwidth information provided via the sensor network and or bandwidth information retrieved from user data to construct or update a bandwidth cost graph associated with the identified ad hoc network.

By analyzing the relationships in it can be seen that sensor may also be spatially and or temporally proximate to an additional number of sensors other than sensors and i.e. any of sensors and . In an embodiment of the present disclosure bandwidth tracking manager can leverage information concerning the transmission ranges of the beacons detected by each of these sensors as well as other information such as beacon signal strength if available to estimate the distance between sensor and the sensors to which it is connected only by virtue of its connections to sensors and . The foregoing analysis may be repeated to identify sensors that are even further removed from sensor and to estimate the distance between sensor and such sensors. By applying this analysis to sensor and other sensors an ad hoc network may be logically constructed. Analysis performed by bandwidth tracking manager further includes analysis of the bandwidth available from the ad hoc network.

Once an ad hoc network has been identified or updated if one version of the ad hoc network is being modified to generate a more current one the bandwidth tracking manager can advantageously use the ad hoc network to propagate location information among spatially and temporally proximate sensors. This feature will now be described in reference to flowchart of .

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which bandwidth tracking manager obtains location information associated with a first sensor in a plurality of sensors represented in the ad hoc network. The location information associated with the first sensor may include an estimate or indication of the location of the first sensor determined using sensor data transmitted by the first sensor to BCO engine and or using stored information such as that stored in user data . An estimate or indication of the actual location of the first sensor may be generated by a positioning module or service present on the first sensor such as but not limited to a GPS positioning module or service a WiFi based positioning module or service a cellular telephone based positioning module or service or a Bluetooth based positioning module or service. This estimate or indication of the actual location of the first sensor may also be provided by a user of the first sensor via a user interface of the first sensor. For example the estimate or indication of the actual location of the first sensor may be a zip code or street address provided by the user of the first sensor.

Alternatively bandwidth tracking manager may obtain the location information associated with the first sensor by generating or augmenting location information associated with the first sensor based on location information associated with one or more other sensors in the plurality of sensors that have been determined to be spatially and temporally proximate to the first sensor. In other words the location information associated with the first sensor may be propagated to the first sensor from one or more other spatially and temporally proximate sensors.

As yet another example bandwidth tracking manager may obtain the location information associated with the first sensor by accessing location information associated with a network gateway used by the first sensor. For example as will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s IP addresses associated with geo coded network gateways can be mapped to corresponding geographic areas.

Still further bandwidth tracking manager may obtain the location information associated with the first sensor by calculating the location of the first sensor by virtue of its proximity to a plurality of beacons. For example triangulation may be used to calculate the location of the first sensor by virtue of its proximity to a plurality of beacons. The proximity of the first sensor to each of the beacons may be determined based on sensor data provided by the first sensor or by one or more sensors that have been determined to be spatially and temporally proximate to the first sensor.

At step bandwidth tracking manager identifies a second sensor in the plurality of sensors that is spatially and temporally proximate to the first sensor. One manner by which bandwidth tracking manager may identify spatially and temporally proximate sensors was described above in reference to flowchart of .

At step bandwidth tracking manager generates or augments location information associated with the second sensor based on the location information associated with the first sensor. Bandwidth tracking manager may perform this step for example by using an estimate or indication of the actual location of the first sensor as an estimate or indication of the actual location of the second sensor. For example if a zip code has previously been associated with the first sensor then bandwidth tracking manager may also associate the zip code with the second sensor based on the spatial and temporal proximity of the two sensors. The same approach may be used for example to assign geographic coordinates a street address or any other representation of a location associated with the first device to the second device.

Bandwidth tracking manager may also perform step by modifying an estimate or indication of the actual location of the first sensor by an offset wherein the offset is intended to represent a location difference between the two sensors. As discussed above the relative distance between sensors may be determined by leveraging sensor data such as beacon IDs beacon types and signal strengths provided by the plurality of sensors in the ad hoc network.

Bandwidth tracking manager may also perform step by augmenting location information previously associated with the second sensor based on the location information associated with the first sensor. For example the location information previously associated with the second sensor may be limited or may lack the same granularity as the location information associated with the first sensor. In this case location manager may use the location information associated with the first sensor to render the location information associated with the second sensor more complete or granular. Thus an embodiment of the present disclosure can combine location information from a plurality of spatially and temporally proximate sensors to generate refined location information.

The foregoing examples of the manner in which bandwidth tracking manager may perform step were provided by way of example only and are not intended to limit the present disclosure. Persons skilled in the relevant art s will readily appreciate that other methods may be used to generate or augment location information associated with the second sensor based on the location information associated with the first sensor.

By way of a non limiting example the location of a requestor s sensor relative to one or more other sensors with available bandwidth can be used to make a selection between bandwidth resource alternatives and or to prioritize the bandwidth resource alternatives. A sensor that has available bandwidth for use in exchanging multimedia content or other data can be selected or given higher priority over another sensor with available bandwidth based on each sensor s relative spatial proximity to the requestor s sensor. By way of a further non limiting example a sensor with available bandwidth could be selected to exchange data using available bandwidth e.g. digital data exchange using a bandwidth available via a cellular data plan because the selected sensor is able to exchange data with the intended recipient of the data e.g. the bandwidth requestor using another method e.g. Bluetooth WIFI removable storage media etc. which is available based on the requester sensor s spatial proximity to the selected sensor.

Where actual location information is available for a number of spatially and temporally proximate sensors in the ad hoc network an embodiment of the present disclosure can advantageously select the best available location information for propagation among surrounding sensors. The determination of what constitutes the best available location information may be based for example on the granularity of the location information or some other indicia of the accuracy of the location information. Such other indicia may include the type of sensor that reported the location information the conditions under which the location information was reported the accuracy of previously reported location information from the same sensor or the similarity or difference between location information being reported by a particular sensor as compared to other spatially and temporally proximate sensors.

Furthermore where actual location information is available for a number of spatially and temporally proximate sensors in the ad hoc network an embodiment of the present disclosure can advantageously use the multiple instances of actual location information to detect bad sensor readings. For example where a majority of a group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors are reporting actual location information corresponding to a first location or area and a minority of the same group is reporting actual location information corresponding to a second location or area that is geographically remote from the first area an embodiment of the present disclosure can determine that the actual location information being reported by the minority is incorrect. Such an embodiment can also attempt to correct or override the bad location information with an estimated location based on the good location information being provided by surrounding sensors.

The foregoing approach to location tracking is advantageous for a number of reasons. For example the foregoing approach enables sophisticated BCO services to be delivered to users across multiple networks carriers signal types and protocols. As described above it can be used to unify multiple sources and formats of bandwidth and location information into a real time graph or mesh of sensors. It can also be used to deliver BCO services of multiple divergent granularities through a single ad hoc network.

Furthermore because the foregoing approach utilizes propagation of location information among spatially and temporally proximate sensors it optimizes the value of available location information and enables all sensors in the ad hoc network to be positioned with great accuracy regardless of sensor type and further enables the BCO engine to take proximity information into account for purposes of allocating available bandwidth resources. This approach also permits data that has heretofore been spread among different information silos to be recreated in a single database through location metadata analysis and optimization thereby minimizing information bottlenecks and gate keepers.

Additionally in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure user devices may be utilized as sensors and beacons to produce a recurring optimized location tracking model instead of as simple dumb terminals that are only relevant when engaged with a user.

Although the foregoing section describes a method for tracking the relative and actual location of sensors within the context of an ad hoc network it is noted that the foregoing approach can advantageously be used to track the relative and actual locations of devices and objects that are configured to or capable of acting as beacons only. So long as such beacons are detected by at least one sensor that is currently reporting sensor data to BCO engine those beacons can also be located within the ad hoc network by bandwidth tracking manager . Consequently bandwidth tracking manager can determine the relative and actual location of beacons in a like manner to that described above for sensors and such beacons can then also receive location based services or other services based on this functionality.

Furthermore although the foregoing section describes a method of location tracking that is premised in part on the sensing of signals transmitted or broadcast by beacons the disclosure is not limited to that approach. For example additional methods may be used to determine that users are proximally located to each other. In one embodiment a camera acts a sensor by capturing an image of a user s face and BCO engine uses facial recognition technology to match the user s face to an online user identity thereby placing the photographed user in proximity to the bearer of the camera. In another embodiment a user manually enters personal identification information about a proximally located user e.g. a user name e mail address telephone number or the like into a user device. Upon receipt of such information BCO engine is then able to place the user identified by the personal identification information in proximity to the bearer of the user device.

Once bandwidth tracking manager has created updated the ad hoc network of all or some portion of the sensors of network as discussed above bandwidth tracking manager creates updates bandwidth graph which represents all the sensors currently being tracked by BCO engine and their current relative or actual bandwidths and locations. Bandwidth matching manager then uses bandwidth graph to allocate available bandwidth as needed e.g. to match bandwidth requests and bandwidth offers.

As is discussed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments the location information can be used by BCO engine to construct and or update a bandwidth cost graph which can be used to identify one or more resources to provide bandwidth to satisfy a bandwidth request. In accordance with one or more embodiments the sensors in the ad hoc network together with the proximity relationships can be used to form a graph of the network. In a case that the graph is formed from relationships established based on the proximity of the sensors in the ad hoc network the graph would look much like conceptual illustration which shows each sensor in the ad hoc network as a node which is connected to one or more nodes based on proximity. A bandwidth and cost profile comprising bandwidth and cost information can be established for each node to yield a bandwidth cost graph corresponding to an ad hoc network. As discussed above other information can be associated with each sensor in the graph.

It should be apparent that other techniques can be used to construct bandwidth cost graph from sensors identified for an ad hoc network. By way of a non limiting example sensors can be interconnected to form segments represented as nodes of a path that can be used to exchange data which path can comprise sensors that are communicatively connected. In accordance with one or more embodiments the path can comprise one or more sensors that are not in proximity to other sensors in the path. In accordance with one or more embodiments a segment in a data exchange path can be defined by two or more sensors that are communicatively coupled or a sensor and another device having available bandwidth e.g. a computing device communicatively coupled to a network such as the Internet local area network wide area network etc. A bandwidth cost graph can comprise a number of branches each of which corresponds to an alternative data exchange segment path that is available using one or more sensors. Each node of such a bandwidth cost graph can have associated bandwidth and cost information and optionally one or more other information items. The cost associated with a particular path can be determined by summing the costs associated with the nodes that form the path.

Regardless of the technique used to build update a bandwidth cost graph more than one bandwidth cost graph can be built so that bandwidth cost graph can comprise more than one graph.

As noted above in an embodiment of the present disclosure the sensors providing sensor data to BCO engine may comprise sensors that have limited bandwidth. For example these mobile sensors may be limited in the amount of time for accessing the network and or the amount of data that can be exchanged via the network. By way of a non limiting example a sensor can use some amount of bandwidth each time the sensor communicates with BCO engine such as each time the sensor provides sensor data.

Generally speaking BCO engine benefits from the frequent collection and reporting of sensor data by the sensors because this allows BCO engine to construct or maintain a more up to date ad hoc network which in turn facilitates better bandwidth and or location tracking and bandwidth resource allocation. However the collection and reporting of sensor data can consume some portion of a sensor s available bandwidth which may be limited. If a sensor consumes some portion of a limited bandwidth it will be incapable of providing sensor data and offering the bandwidth consumed as available bandwidth which can be allocated by BCO engine which may limit the ability of BCO engine to perform its bandwidth tracking function and or bandwidth resource allocation function. When the sensor consumes available bandwidth it will be incapable of performing data exchanges that could otherwise be performed using the bandwidth which is undesirable from the user perspective.

Thus it would be beneficial if the need for frequent collection and reporting of sensor data by BCO engine could somehow be balanced with the bandwidth requirements and constraints of each sensor in the ad hoc network.

As shown in BCO engine includes a number of communicatively connected elements including a user interface a data requester interface an SNI manager a user data database a cost data database a tracking manager a bandwidth cost graph a bandwidth matching manager and a sensor logs database . With the exception of certain functions to be described immediately below each of these elements performs essentially the same functions as described above in reference to like named elements of BCO engine .

As is also shown in BCO engine further includes a cost manager . Bandwidth management manager is configured to obtain bandwidth status information associated with each of a plurality of sensors currently reporting sensor data to BCO engine . The bandwidth status information is reported by each of the plurality of sensors via sensor network . In an embodiment the bandwidth status information is transmitted by each sensor as part of or along with sensor data transmitted to BCO engine and is stored by SNI manager in sensor logs database . The bandwidth status information for a sensor may include but is not limited to a measure of a current or projected amount of bandwidth available to the sensor from any of a number of bandwidth resources a measure of the cost associated with each bandwidth resource and or a measure of a current or projected amount of bandwidth required by the sensor.

Bandwidth management manager is further configured to obtain information concerning the spatial and temporal proximity of the sensors currently reporting to BCO engine from a bandwidth cost graph maintained by bandwidth tracking manager . Bandwidth tracking manager is configured to construct and maintain bandwidth cost graph in the same manner as described above in reference to bandwidth tracking manager and bandwidth cost graph of BCO engine and thus no further description of that process need be provided.

Bandwidth management manager is still further configured to use both the proximity and bandwidth status information associated with each of the plurality of sensors currently reporting to BCO engine e.g. with reference to bandwidth cost graph to make bandwidth management decisions which can include cost management decisions concerning those sensors. The manner in which these bandwidth management decisions are made will be described in more detail below. Bandwidth management manager may implement the management decisions by dynamically and adaptively controlling the manner in which available bandwidth of one or more of the sensors is allocated for use in a data exchange for one or more other sensors in the group. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth management manager can use bandwidth cost graph to allocate available bandwidth to one or more sensors for use in exchanging data. In addition management decisions may be implemented to control the manner in which data is collected for BCO engine and or data is disseminated to one or more other sensors. Bandwidth management manager is configured to control sensor functions by sending configuration commands to each of the one or more sensors over sensor network via SNI manager .

As shown in sensor also includes bandwidth management logic or code . Bandwidth management logic is configured to provide bandwidth status information e.g. bandwidth usage information associated with sensor to sensor data publisher for transmission to BCO engine . In an embodiment sensor data publisher includes the bandwidth status information as part of or along with other sensor data that sensor data publisher periodically transmits to BCO engine . In an alternate embodiment sensor data publisher transmits the bandwidth status information separately from such sensor data. Depending upon the implementation sensor data publisher may transmit the bandwidth status information at the same frequency or at a different frequency than the frequency with which it transmits the other sensor data. Sensor data publisher may also transmit the bandwidth status information with a time code that indicates at what time the bandwidth status information was generated.

In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth management logic or code is configured to provide power status information associated with sensor to sensor data publisher for transmission to BCO engine . In an embodiment as discussed above with respect to bandwidth status information sensor data publisher can include the power status information as part of or along with other sensor data that sensor data publisher periodically transmits to BCO engine . Alternatively sensor data publisher can transmit the power status information separately from such sensor data. Depending upon the implementation sensor data publisher may transmit the power status information at the same frequency or at a different frequency than the frequency with which it transmits the other sensor data. Sensor data publisher may also transmit the power status information with a time code that indicates at what time the power status information was generated.

Bandwidth management logic is also configured to determine or modify the manner in which certain bandwidth consuming and optionally power consuming functions are performed by sensor responsive to configuration commands received from BCO engine over sensor network . The configuration commands are received by network interface and then passed to bandwidth management logic for processing.

As will be described in more detail herein responsive to processing the configuration commands bandwidth management logic may modify the manner in which sensor provides sensor data to BCO engine . Responsive to processing the configuration commands BCO management logic may also modify a manner in which sensor acts as a beacon if sensor includes beacon functionality or cause sensor to stop reporting positioning information if sensor includes positioning logic.

In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth management logic is configured to track bandwidth usage which information can be provided to BCO engine for purposes of tracking available bandwidth of the sensor . By way of a non limiting example bandwidth management logic can track usage associated with limited bandwidth such as voice and data limits imposed by cellular plan providers. The bandwidth usage information can be provided by sensor as part of or separate from other sensor data provided by sensor .

The manner in which BCO engine manages bandwidth resource allocation among a plurality of sensors such as sensor in an ad hoc network will now be described with reference to flowchart of . Although the steps of flowchart will be described with continued reference to components of BCO engine and sensor persons skilled in the relevant art s will readily appreciate that the method is not limited to those implementations and that other means may be used to carry out the method.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which SNI manager receives sensor data provided from a plurality of sensors. In addition to the sensor data discussed above in accordance with one or more embodiments sensor data may include bandwidth information e.g. cost and usage information provided by bandwidth management logic . In addition and in accordance with one or more embodiments the sensor data can include power status information which identifies the level of power available to the sensor. SNI manager stores this sensor data in sensor logs database where it is accessible by bandwidth tracking manager .

In accordance with one or more embodiments the bandwidth status information for a particular sensor may also be provided at the same frequency as the sensor data received from that sensor in step or at a different frequency. For example in one example embodiment the bandwidth status information for a particular sensor is provided more frequently than the sensor data associated with that sensor. This type of implementation may make sense where the bandwidth state of the sensor is anticipated to change more quickly than the location of the sensor. The bandwidth status information may also be received with a time code indicating when the sensor generated the bandwidth status information. The bandwidth status information received by SNI manager in step is stored in sensor logs database logs .

At step bandwidth tracking manager retrieves stored bandwidth status information e.g. from user data database . By way of some non limiting examples bandwidth status information may include one or more of available bandwidth type provider limit cost usage plan identification etc. Thus in accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth status information retrieved from one or more data stores may be included with the sensor data received in step or may be transmitted independently of that data.

At step bandwidth tracking manager constructs an ad hoc network among the plurality of sensors based on the received sensor data. One manner in which bandwidth tracking manager may construct the ad hoc network was described above in reference to bandwidth tracking manager of BCO engine and thus no further description of that process need be provided.

At step bandwidth management manager analyzes the bandwidth status information associated with each sensor in a group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors in the ad hoc network. This group comprises two or more sensors across which bandwidth management manager can implement a bandwidth and cost management scheme by virtue of their spatial and temporal proximity. As described herein the bandwidth and cost management scheme may include assigning more bandwidth consuming tasks relating to data exchange to certain sensors in a group as opposed to other sensors in the group based on the bandwidth state of each sensor in the group and or allocating bandwidth of one or more sensors to another sensor for using in exchanging data for the other sensor.

At step bandwidth management manager modifies the manner in which at least one sensor in the group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors reports sensor data and or bandwidth information based on the analysis of the bandwidth status information. Performance of this step by bandwidth management manager includes sending one or more configuration commands to a sensor via sensor network . Responsive to receiving a configuration command bandwidth management logic within the sensor such as bandwidth management logic of sensor modifies the manner in which the sensor reports sensor data and or bandwidth information using bandwidth that is available to the sensor.

One type of bandwidth management scheme that can be implemented by bandwidth management manager in accordance with the foregoing method involves requiring certain sensors in a group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors to act as a source of sensor data and or bandwidth information reporting more often as compared to other sensors in the same group based on an analysis performed at the sensor group or system e.g. sensors outside the current group level. In this way sensors with more bandwidth or less associated cost can be required to carry more of the reporting burden as compared to other sensors in the group that have less bandwidth or greater associated cost. This scheme can be premised on the insight that in a sufficiently dense group of temporally and spatially proximate sensors sensor data need not be collected from each sensor at the same frequency in order to identify an ad hoc network. In addition it is likely that a sensor that has limited available bandwidth and or the bandwidth that is available is costly need not be included in a bandwidth cost graph constructed or updated from the ad hoc network. Thus this bandwidth management scheme may also take into account the density of the group as well as the bandwidth and cost associated with the sensors in the group.

Changing the sensor data and or bandwidth information polling frequency may involve sending a configuration command to a sensor wherein the configuration command changes a parameter that is used by the sensor to determine a rate at which bandwidth management logic generates bandwidth and cost information. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth management manager can transmit a configuration command to alter the rate at which sensor reports sensor data and or bandwidth information and or the rate at which bandwidth management logic generate cost data. The latter rate change can be performed to conserve available power of the sensor for example. In addition and if the rate at which bandwidth information is being generated is reduced the rate at which the bandwidth information is reported can also be decreased to coincide. In addition the change in polling frequency can involve sending a configuration command to a sensor which results in a change in a parameter that is used by the sensor to determine the rate at which to scan for proximally located beacons. Changing the sensor data and or bandwidth information polling frequency may include temporarily turning off the polling frequency for a sensor. Likewise changing the rate at which a sensor reports sensor data may include temporarily turning off the sensor data reporting functionality for a sensor.

Where the group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors is dense enough bandwidth management manager may also change the manner in which at least one sensor in the group acts as a beacon. For example bandwidth management manager may turn off beacon functionality in one or more sensors where providing such functionality is not necessary in order to obtain a reasonably up to date picture of the ad hoe network.

In accordance with one or more embodiments available bandwidth may be needed for the sensors to report sensor data. In such a case the BCO management manager may make determinations on whether and to what extent sensors in the group report sensor data. Such a determination can be made based on one or more criteria e.g. sufficiency of the information already provided the actual or estimated amount of available bandwidth the ability to use a bandwidth resource that is less costly relative to other available bandwidths etc. The BCO management manager can take into account whether bandwidth and or location information currently being generated by a sensor in the group is useful or accurate. For example where a first sensor is unable to contribute bandwidth and or other devices in the group are providing useful bandwidth and or location information BCO management manager may cause the sensor to stop reporting such information thereby saving bandwidth and costs associated with the first sensor and or saving power that would otherwise be consumed by the first sensor.

By way of another non limiting example the BCO management manager may also take into account the type of status information collected and or frequency with which the data is collected on an ongoing basis. For example if a sensor is stationary and or the beacons in the proximity of the sensor are stationary the frequency with which location information is reported by the sensor can be decreased. By way of another non limiting example in a case that there is little or no change in bandwidth usage being reported by a sensor e.g. during late night or early morning hours the frequency with which the sensor reports such usage information can be reduced to an extremely low level. In contrast if a sensor is moving the beacons in the proximity of the sensor are moving and or usage measures are changing then the polling frequency may need to be relatively high in order to capture useful sensor data. BCO management manager may take such criteria into account when reducing or increasing the polling frequencies associated with different sensors in the group.

Bandwidth management manager may also take into account the amount of power that must be supplied to antennas associated with sensors in the group in order for those sensors to return useful sensor data. Thus for example bandwidth management manager may determine that increasing the gain of an antenna associated with a first type of sensor will yield more useful data than increasing the gain of an antenna associated with a second type of sensor in the same group. In this situation bandwidth management manager may increase the power supplied to the antenna of the first type of sensor while maintaining or reducing the power supplied to the antenna of the second type of sensor thereby conserving power in the second type of sensor.

In accordance with another BCO management scheme BCO management manager may cause a selected sensor in the group to collect sensor data and or bandwidth status information from one or more other sensors in the group over a local network connection and to provide the collected data to BCO engine on behalf of the other sensor s . BCO management manager may also cause the selected sensor to receive data related to BCO services from BCO engine on behalf of the other sensor s and to disseminate this data to the other sensor s . This allows the selected sensor which may have more available bandwidth and or less costly communication capabilities to act as a communication hub for other sensors that have less available bandwidth.

In accordance with another management scheme bandwidth management manager may cause a selected sensor in the group to collect sensor data from one or more other sensors in the group over a local network connection and to provide the collected sensor data to BCO engine on behalf of the other sensor s . Bandwidth management manager may also cause the selected sensor to receive data related to location based services from BCO engine on behalf of the other sensor s and to disseminate this data to the other sensor s . This allows the selected sensor which may have more available bandwidth to act as a communication hub for other sensors that have less available power. This scheme can further take into account available power of the sensors in the group. By way of a non limiting example bandwidth management manager can select a sensor in the group that has ample available bandwidth and power to collect sensor data and report the data to BCO engine and or to receive and disseminate data received from BCO engine .

An example of a BCO management scheme in which a selected sensor is used to report sensor data and to disseminate received data is illustrated in block diagram of . It should be apparent that this BCO management scheme can be used to exchange any type of data using a selected sensor as a hub for one or more other sensors. In the example shown in a first sensor and a second sensor in a group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors is shown. As illustrated second sensor receives sensor data and or bandwidth status information from first sensor over a local network connection and provides the received data on behalf of the first sensor to BCO engine over sensor network . As also shown in second sensor receives BCO services data from BCO engine over sensor network on behalf of first sensor and disseminates the BCO services data to first sensor .

BCO management manager may automatically identify groups of spatially and temporally proximate sensors over which BCO management is to be performed. Such groups may be identified based on spatial and temporal proximity bandwidth resources or other factors. The size of such groups may vary depending upon the implementation or mode of operation. At one extreme the group may encompass all of the sensors in the ad hoc network constricted by bandwidth tracking manager . At the other extreme the group may consist of only two sensors. Still further BCO management manager may perform bandwidth management for individual sensors. For example BCO management manager may apply any of the aforementioned methods for reducing bandwidth consumption in a sensor such as a sensor that is reporting a low bandwidth availability condition without regard to the bandwidth state of any spatially and temporally proximate sensors.

An embodiment of the present disclosure also advantageously allows a user to override or control the manner in which BCO management manager performs the bandwidth management function. For example in one embodiment the user is allowed to reduce the frequency with which sensor data and or bandwidth status information is collected and or reported by a sensor or to turn off the polling or reporting functionality entirely. In so doing a user is permitted to conserve sensor bandwidth and power that can then be dedicated to other functions if desired. Turning off these functions may also be desirable for reasons relating to protecting user privacy or conserving resources such as available bandwidth and power and or costs associated with communicating with BCO engine . Such user control mechanisms may be contained within the sensor itself or implemented through user communication with BCO engine .

In an alternative embodiment the user is allowed to fix the frequency with which sensor data and or bandwidth status information is collected and or reported by a sensor regardless of the bandwidth management functionality. This might be used for example by a parent to ensure that a sensor associated with a child continues to provide sensor data and or bandwidth status information even when the sensor is in a low bandwidth state thereby allowing the location of the child to be continuously tracked by BCO engine .

In accordance with another embodiment users may define groups of sensors over which bandwidth management manager should perform cost and bandwidth management functions. For example a user may specify a group of sensors associated with the members of a family the members of a business organization or participants in an activity or event over which bandwidth management should be performed. This advantageously allows for bandwidth sharing and load and or cost balancing among the sensors used by a particular group whose members need not be physically proximate with each other to share bandwidth.

In some embodiments users may define persons organizations and or entities with which to share bandwidth e.g. excess bandwidth or to regularly donate some portion of their bandwidth to an entity it considers deserving. For example a user may donate ten percent of their bandwidth to a favorite non profit organization. An aggregate bandwidth donation e.g. comprising one or more donations from one or more users could be sufficient to satisfy the bandwidth needs of a recipient e.g. a non profit organization. In so doing the recipient s bandwidth needs can be completely provided for through donations. By way of some non limiting examples campaigns for bandwidth donation can originate from donating users potential donation recipients the BCO engine or one or more third party bandwidth aggregation services.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a potential recipient can register with the BCO engine e.g. as a data requester and a user can register with the BCO engine as a potential donor. Alternatively the BCO engine can be configured to identify a user as a potential donor e.g. a user that has available bandwidth on a regular or irregular basis. The BCO engine can use other factors in identifying a potential donor such as without limitation the user s previous donation history affiliations etc. BCO engine e.g. one or both of matching manager and bandwidth management manager of the BCO engine can be configured to match one or more potential donors with one or more potential donation recipients so that available bandwidth of one or more user s can be shared with one or more recipients e.g. persons organizations entities etc. In accordance with one or more embodiments bandwidth cost graph can include information to identify available bandwidth as an actual or potential bandwidth donation which is for use by an actual or potential donation recipient.

In a further embodiment a user may define a hierarchy associated with the sensors in the user defined group wherein the available bandwidth of the sensors at the bottom of the hierarchy is to be used prior to or at a greater rate than the available bandwidth of the sensors at the top of the hierarchy. This may involve for example increasing a priority associated with available bandwidth of one or more sensors at the bottom of the hierarchy or causing one or more sensors at the bottom of the hierarchy to act as a communication hub with BCO engine . By way of a non limiting example available bandwidth associated with a sensor at the bottom of the hierarchy that has an associated limitation can be used to exchange data for another sensor higher up in the hierarchy.

In a further embodiment a user may define a hierarchy associated with the possible networks for data exchange within a known or potential grouping of sensors. By way of a non limiting example a network can comprise a provider s data exchange network accessible by one or more sensors of the user. In accordance with such an embodiment available bandwidth of the network at the top of the hierarchy is to be used prior to or at a greater rate than the available bandwidth of the networks at the bottom of the hierarchy. This may involve for example increasing a priority associated with available bandwidth of one or more networks at the top of the hierarchy or causing one or more networks at the top of the hierarchy to act as a communication hub with BCO engine . By way of a non limiting example available bandwidth associated with a network at the top of the hierarchy that has an associated limitation can be used to exchange data in lieu of a network lower in the hierarchy.

As discussed above bandwidth management manager analyzes bandwidth status information associated with each sensor in a group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors and then implements a cost and bandwidth management scheme based on the analysis. In one embodiment bandwidth management manager uses the bandwidth status information to predict the future bandwidth usage of each of the sensors the data exchange methods associated therewith and the combination of all of these working in parallel in order to achieve a balance between optimized bandwidth allocation and minimal costs associated therewith.

In a further embodiment bandwidth management manager takes into account an estimate of when a user s available bandwidth will be replenished e.g. at the start of a new billing cycle such as every month for a given sensor in determining a bandwidth management scheme for that sensor or for a group of sensors. This estimate may be based for example on information supplied by the user via user interface information obtained from a plan s provider and or information provided by the sensor. As yet another non limiting example the bandwidth management scheme can be based on historical information relating to bandwidth usage patterns of individual users and or a group of users such as a cooperative or collective. Historical proximity information may also be used to predict future proximity information for one or more sensors. Over time the cyclical patterns among individual users as well as within individual cooperatives and or collectives of users allow the BCO engine to more accurately forecast bandwidth needs and either automatically or interactively optimize data traffic including caching synchronizing disambiguating etc.

To implement the foregoing approach to bandwidth management an embodiment of the present disclosure may need to manage the CPU priority of the sensing software operating on a sensor. This may involve dynamically changing the standby mode settings for the sensor so that the sensor does not automatically enter into a state in which the collection and reporting of sensor data and or bandwidth status information is disabled.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure bandwidth management manager may change the priority or rate of collection of sensor data and or bandwidth status information by a sensor based in part on a prediction of change. For example the polling frequency of a sensor may be increased when new sensors or beacons are encountered and decreased if the surrounding sensors or beacons are more static and or when available bandwidth is being allocated or bandwidth status information received from one or more sensors indicates an increased level of usage.

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure a sensor may include an encounters management system that organizes collected sensor data and or bandwidth status information based on encounters with other sensors or beacons. The encounters management system may manage or track certain information associated with each encounter such as a start time end time location bandwidth status information target device and source device. The encounters management system may include a store and forward mechanism to optimize outgoing sensor data and to manage the frequency with which such data is reported. Optimization of the reporting frequency may be performed on a per encounter basis. Prioritization may be performed based on device type whether the encounter is a first encounter updating an end time of the encounter less urgent frequent contact type e.g. friend or stranger or the like.

As discussed above in one embodiment of the present disclosure the sensor data provided from each sensor to the BCO engine includes at least a unique ID associated with the sensor one or more unique IDs respectively associated with each of the beacons currently detected by the sensor and one or more time codes indicating when each beacon was respectively sensed by the sensor. In accordance with one or more embodiments and as discussed above the sensor data may also include bandwidth status information. The BCO engine uses the time codes included in this sensor data to determine which sensors are detecting which beacons at a given moment in time or during a given window of time. This ability of the BCO engine to correlate sensor data based on time codes is critical in building and maintaining an ad hoc network that is useful for bandwidth tracking.

A problem arises however when a sensor generates time codes using a notion of time that is different than the notion of time held by other sensors reporting sensor data to the BCO engine. When this occurs the ability of the BCO engine to correctly correlate sensor data received from all the sensors based on time codes is impaired. This may occur for example when a sensor in a network uses a local clock to generate time codes while other sensors in the same network use a network clock to generate time codes and the local clock and the network clock are not synchronized. This may also occur for example when a sensor in a first network uses a first network clock to generate time codes while a sensor in a second network users a second network clock to generate time codes wherein the first network clock and the second network clock are not synchronized.

As shown in BCO engine includes a number of communicatively connected elements including a user interface a data requester interface an SNI manager a user data database a cost data database a bandwidth tracking manager a bandwidth cost graph a bandwidth matching manager and a sensor logs database . With the exception of certain functions to be described immediately below each of these elements performs essentially the same functions as described above in reference to like named elements of BCO engine .

As also shown in BCO engine further includes a time code manager . Time code manager is configured to obtain time codes generated by each of a plurality of sensors currently reporting sensor data to BCO engine . As discussed above these time codes comprise part of sensor data that is periodically transmitted by each of the plurality of sensors to BCO engine via sensor network and that is stored by SNI manager in sensor logs database . Depending upon the implementation time code manager may obtain time codes by extracting them from sensor logs database or from bandwidth cost graph in an embodiment in which time codes are maintained in association with sensors mapped to bandwidth cost graph by bandwidth tracking manager .

Time code manager is further configured to obtain information concerning the spatial and temporal proximity of the sensors currently reporting sensor data to BCO engine from bandwidth cost graph maintained by bandwidth tracking manager . Bandwidth tracking manager is configured to construct and maintain bandwidth cost graph in the same manner as described above in reference to bandwidth tracking manager and bandwidth cost graph of BCO engine .

Time code manager is still further configured to use both the proximity information and time codes associated with each of the plurality of sensors currently reporting sensor data to BCO engine to automatically validate and or correct the time codes generated by those sensors. The manner in which these functions are performed by time code manager will now described with reference to flowcharts depicted in .

In particular depicts a flowchart of a first method by which BCO engine validates and corrects time codes generated by a plurality of sensors in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Although the steps of flowchart will be described with continued reference to components of BCO engine persons skilled in the relevant art s will readily appreciate that the method is not limited to those implementations and that other means may be used to carry out the method.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which SNI manager receives sensor data provided from a plurality of sensors wherein the sensor data received from each sensor includes a time code generated by the sensor. SNI manager stores this sensor data in sensor logs database where it is accessible by bandwidth tracking manager . At step bandwidth tracking manager constructs an ad hoc network among the plurality of sensors based on the received sensor data. One manner in which bandwidth tracking manager may construct an ad hoc network based on the received sensor data was described above in reference to bandwidth tracking manager of BCO engine and thus no further description of that process need be provided.

At step time code manager identifies a group of two or more spatially and temporally proximate sensors in the ad hoc network for which time code validation and or correction will be performed. The manner in which time code manager identifies the group of sensors may vary depending upon the implementation and mode of operation of time code manager . For example time code manager may identify a group based on a physical or logical partitioning of the sensors in the ad hoc network wherein such partitioning may be based on for example a predefined group size or group density or on the relative or actual location of sensors within the ad hoc network. Time code manager may also identify a group based on a perceived discrepancy between time codes generated by sensors in the group or by a measure of the degree of such discrepancy.

Despite the discrepancies between these time codes bandwidth tracking manager is capable of determining that sensors and are co located by virtue of the sensor data reported by those sensors and the sensors surrounding them. For example bandwidth tracking manager may determine that sensors and are co located at a particular time or during a particular time period because other spatially proximate sensors in group reported detecting those sensors at the same time or during the same time period. As another example bandwidth tracking manager may determine that sensors and are co located at a particular time or during a particular time period because each of these sensors reported detecting the same stationary beacon within a particular time interval. However these examples are not intended to be limiting and other methods of identifying co located sensors reporting different time codes may also be used.

Although bandwidth tracking manager is capable of determining that sensors and are co located even when such sensors are reporting different time codes it would be advantageous to validate and when appropriate correct the time codes generated by these sensors. By performing this function time code manager can improve the integrity of sensor data subsequently received from these sensors which in turn improves the ability of bandwidth tracking manager to correlate sensor data based on time codes and to identify with greater ease and precision the time periods during which sensors are co located. Furthermore by performing this function time code manager enables clocks associated with the sensors to be automatically or manually reset to correct future time code generation when appropriate.

Returning now to the method of flowchart after time code manager has identified a group of spatially and temporally proximate sensors for which time code validation and or correction will be performed time code manager analyzes the time codes generated by the identified group as shown at step . In one embodiment this step comprises assigning a confidence value to each of the time codes generated by the group. The confidence value assigned to a time code is essentially a measure of the likelihood that the time code is the most accurate among all the time codes being analyzed. Accuracy may be measured relative to a notion of time maintained by other sensors in the ad hoc network or to a notion of time maintained by BCO engine .

Time code manager may take into account a variety of factors in assigning a confidence value to a particular time code. For example time code manager may assign a confidence value to a time code based at least in part on the number of sensors in the group that generated that time code wherein the more sensors that generated the time code the higher the confidence value. Time code manager may construct a histogram of the time codes generated by the group in order to perform this function.

Time code manager may assign a confidence value to a time code based at least in part on an indicator of the reliability of a sensor or sensors that generated that time code. Thus for example time code manager may assign a lower confidence value to a time code when that time code was generated by a sensor operating under adverse sensing conditions e.g. a sensor detecting beacons over a channel experiencing interference or a sensor moving at a high velocity or when that time code was generated by a sensor that has historically generated inaccurate time codes or poor sensor data.

At step time code manager modifies a time code generated by at least one sensor in the group based on the analysis performed in step . This step may include for example selecting one of the time codes generated by the group based on confidence values assigned to the time codes and or on some other factor s and then replacing a time code generated by at least one sensor in the group by the selected time code. In another embodiment this step may comprise combining or averaging one or more time codes generated by the group based on the confidence values assigned to the time codes and or on some other factor s to generate a combined time code and then replacing a time code generated by at least one sensor in the group by the combined time code. This step may also comprise adding or subtracting a time offset to a time code generated by at least one sensor in the group.

The foregoing method advantageously applies collaborative filtering to time codes generated by co located sensors to validate and or correct the time codes generated by those sensors. In further accordance with this embodiment once time code manager has identified a sensor that has generated an inaccurate time code it can take steps to ensure that future time codes provided by the same sensor are more accurate. For example time code manager can apply a predetermined offset to subsequently received time codes generating by the same sensor to ensure that such time codes are more accurate. Alternatively time code manager can send a command to the sensor wherein the command causes the state of a clock used by the sensor to generate time codes to be modified automatically. Still further time code manager can send a notification to a user of the sensor indicating that a state of a clock associated with the sensor should be modified so that the user can modify the clock manually.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which SNI manager receives sensor data provided from a plurality of sensors wherein the sensor data received from each sensor includes a time code generated by the sensor. SNI manager stores this sensor data in sensor logs database where it is accessible by bandwidth tracking manager . At step bandwidth tracking manager constructs an ad hoc network among the plurality of sensors based on the received sensor data. One manner in which bandwidth tracking manager may construct an ad hoc network based on the received sensor data was described above in reference to bandwidth tracking manager of BCO engine and thus no further description of that process need be provided.

At step bandwidth tracking manager determines a geographic location of a first sensor in the ad hoc network. Bandwidth tracking manager may determine the geographic location of the first sensor by analyzing location information that is provided by the first sensor to BCO engine along with other sensor data. Such location information may include for example location information provided by a GPS module or other positioning module within the first sensor or location information e.g. a zip code street address or the like provided by a user of the first sensor. Alternatively bandwidth tracking manager may determine the geographic location of the first sensor by propagating location information from a spatially and temporally proximate sensor to the first sensor in a like manner to that described above in reference to flowchart of .

At step time code manager obtains local time information based on the geographic location of the first sensor. For example time code manager may use the geographic location of the first sensor to determine the time zone in which the first sensor is currently located and to determine a local time associated with the time zone.

At step time code manager uses the local time information to correct a time code generated by a second sensor that is spatially proximate to the first sensor in the ad hoc network. For example time code manager may compare the time code generated by the second sensor to the local time determined in step and correct the time code responsive to detecting a discrepancy.

The foregoing method advantageously uses geographic location information associated with or propagated among certain sensors in the ad hoc network to obtain a local time that can then be used to validate and correct time codes generated by co located sensors. In further accordance with this embodiment once time code manager has identified a sensor that has generated an inaccurate time code it can take steps to ensure that future time codes provided by the same sensor are more accurate. For example time code manager can apply a predetermined offset to subsequently received time codes generating by the same sensor to ensure that such time codes are more accurate. Alternatively time code manager can send a command to the sensor wherein the command causes the state of a clock used by the sensor to generate time codes to be modified automatically. Still further time code manager can send a notification to a user of the sensor indicating that a state of a clock associated with the sensor should be modified so that the user can modify the clock manually.

It would be advantageous if users of portable electronic devices could easily exchange data between such devices. However conventional protocols for establishing a communication link between compatible devices can be time consuming. For example in order to pair two Bluetooth devices together at least one of the two devices must be placed in a mode in which it can discover the other device. Once the other device has been discovered and if authentication is required the same passkey must be entered into each of the two devices. Only after this process is complete can data be shared between the two devices. This is a cumbersome process. Furthermore where user devices are not compatible e.g. where one device supports only Bluetooth communication and the other supports only WiFi communication direct data transfer between the devices is simply not possible.

It would also be beneficial if information could be automatically exchanged between user devices responsive to co location of those devices. Such a system could advantageously be used for example to exchange information or notifications among users who are personally and or professionally related or users who are likely to form such a relationship at a point in time when such users are proximally located. Such a system could also advantageously be used to distribute marketing information or other commercial information to and among proximally located users. These are only a few examples of the benefits of such a system. However such automatic data exchange should be carried out in a manner that protects user privacy.

As shown in BCO engine includes a number of communicatively connected elements including a user interface a data requestor interface an SNI manager a user data database an cost data database a bandwidth tracking manager a bandwidth cost graph a bandwidth matching manager and a sensor logs database . With the exception of certain functions to be described immediately below each of these elements performs essentially the same functions as described above in reference to like named elements of BCO engine .

As also shown in BCO engine further includes a data sharing manager . Data sharing manager is configured to facilitate the exchange of data between and among proximally located sensors by receiving data from a first sensor and then transferring such data to one or more other sensors when such other sensor s is are temporally and spatially proximate to the first sensor. Thus data sharing manager allows BCO engine to act as an intermediary between the first sensor and the other sensor s for the purposes of such data exchange. This is illustrated in which shows a system in which a first sensor transfers user data to BCO engine and in which BCO engine transfers copies of the user data to in the case of the example each of a plurality of proximally located sensors .

To perform this function data sharing manager is configured to determine which sensors are proximally located by accessing the current graph which provides sensor locations and which is maintained by bandwidth tracking manager in a manner described in detail above. Data sharing manager is also configured to determine whether other conditions beyond sensor proximity have been satisfied prior to performing a data transfer. These conditions may include user specified conditions or preferences relating to privacy to eligible data transfer sources or targets or to other aspects of data transfer that are stored in user data database . These user specified conditions or preferences may be provided or set by a user via user interface .

Depending upon the implementation user data eligible for transfer is provided to data sharing manager from a user device via sensor network and or via user interface . Such user data may be directly provided to data sharing manager or may be stored in user data database and accessed by data sharing manager when certain conditions for data transfer are satisfied. Such user data can be data transferred to a sensor e.g. sensor using available bandwidth of sensor which is ultimately intended for one or more of the plurality of sensors . In accordance with one or more embodiments allocation of available bandwidth resources associated with sensor and or sensors is performed by BCO engine as discussed herein.

By acting as an intermediary between co located sensors for the purposes of data transfer data sharing manager facilitates data sharing and or exchange in a manner that does not require a local link to be established between or among those sensors. As noted above establishing such a link can be time consuming and burdensome for users. Furthermore in instances where such local links are more bandwidth constrained than links to BCO engine data transfer via BCO engine may be significantly more efficient than a transfer between sensors over a local communication link.

Also by acting as an intermediary between co located sensors for the purposes of data transfer data sharing manager allows data to be shared between sensors that would otherwise be incapable of detecting and or communicating with each other. For example data sharing manager can transfer data between and among WiFi devices cellular telephones and Bluetooth devices that would not normally be able to detect or communicate with each other.

Furthermore by acting as an intermediary between co located sensors for the purposes of data transfer data sharing manager can automatically cause data to be transferred and or exchanged between such devices based on proximity and any of a variety of other factors such as commonality of user interests and or activities or membership in a social network. However because data sharing manager acts as the intermediary in brokering such transfers it can advantageously implement filters to validate user data and protect user privacy.

One manner by which BCO engine transfers data between and among sensors in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure will now be described in reference to flowchart of . Although the steps of flowchart will be described with continued reference to components of BCO engine persons skilled in the relevant art s will readily appreciate that the method is not limited to those implementations and that other means may be used to carry out the method.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which SNI manager receives sensor data provided from each of a plurality of sensors. SNI manager stores this sensor data in sensor logs database where it is accessible by bandwidth tracking manager . At step bandwidth tracking manager constructs an ad hoc network among the plurality of sensors based on the received sensor data. One manner in which bandwidth tracking manager may construct such an ad hoc network based on the received sensor data was described above in reference to bandwidth tracking manager of BCO engine and thus no further description of that process need be provided.

At step data sharing manager determines that a first sensor in the plurality of sensors is spatially and temporally proximate to a second sensor in the plurality of sensors based on the ad hoc network. In one embodiment data sharing manager performs this function by accessing the current graph which is maintained by bandwidth tracking manager in a manner described above.

At step data sharing manager transfers user data received from the first sensor to the second sensor responsive to at least determining that the first sensor is spatially and temporally proximate to the second sensor. The user data is transferred to the second sensor via sensor network .

The user data that is received from the first sensor may be any type of user data including but not limited to any type of text graphics audio and or video content or files. The user data may also include a link or permission to access and optionally modify network accessible multimedia content or data. The user data may be intended for delivery to a single individual or entity or for broadcast to a plurality of individuals or entities. Where the data transfer functionality of BCO engine is used to introduce proximally located users for the purposes of building a personal or business relationship the user data may comprise a user profile a business card a classified advertisement a personals advertisement a resume or a help wanted posting. Other examples of user data in the nature of personal broadcasts are described in co owned and commonly pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 957 052 entitled Personal Broadcast Engine and Network and filed on Dec. 14 2007 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a user profile can comprise information provided by the user via a user interface such as user interface and or information provided as part of the sensor data provided by a sensor associated with the user. By way of a non limiting example the sensor can provide physical location information which over time can provide a physical or spatial path taken by the user. In accordance with one or more embodiments user profile information can include information provided by a third party provider partner. By way of a non limiting example location information can be determined based on a network address e.g. an IP address and user login associated with the third party provider partner.

The user data that is received from the first sensor may be received by SNI manager from sensor network and then provided directly to data sharing manager for transfer to the second sensor. Alternatively the user data that is received from the first sensor may be received via user interface and then stored in user data database . In this case data sharing manager accesses the user data stored in user data database when certain conditions for data transfer are satisfied. The data transfer process may be initiated by a user or a process running on a sensor or BCO engine .

As noted above data sharing manager is capable of transferring data between individual sensors as well as broadcasting data from a first sensor to a plurality of other sensors. Thus in step transferring the user data received from the first sensor to the second sensor may include transferring the user data to a plurality of sensors that are spatially and temporally proximate to the first sensor.

As also noted above by acting as an intermediary between co located sensors for the purposes of data transfer data sharing manager allows data to be shared between sensors that would otherwise be incapable of detecting and or communicating with each other. Thus in accordance with the method of flowchart the first sensor may be of a first device type and the second sensor may be of a second device type that is incapable of directly communicating with the first device type. Such device types may include WiFi devices cellular telephones and Bluetooth devices.

The foregoing method also allows the first and second sensor to share data even when those sensors are not currently capable of detecting each other. For example bandwidth tracking manager may determine that the first and second sensors are proximally located by determining that each sensor is proximally located to a third sensor in the plurality of sensors. This third sensor may be sensed by both the first or second sensors or by sensors that are proximally located to those sensors. Thus BCO engine allows data to be transferred between sensors that are only indirectly connected through a number of intermediate nodes e.g. sensors or beacons in the ad hoc network constructed and maintained by bandwidth tracking manager .

The data transfer between the first sensor and the second sensor in step may advantageously be conditioned on the identification of relationship between a user of the first sensor and a user of the second sensor. This relationship may be based on user data relating to one or more activities interests preferences and or social networks associated with each user. Where data transfer is automatic such filtering allows data to be transferred only to users that share some sort of commonality with the source of the data.

The data transfer between the first sensor and the second sensor in step may also be conditioned on a determination as to whether the transfer is authorized. This ensures that user privacy is protected. Data sharing manager may make this determination for example based on permissioning rules associated with a user of the first sensor and or a user of the second sensor. Such permissioning rules may be stored in user data database and accessed when required by data sharing manager .

Although the foregoing section describes a method for sharing data between proximally located sensors in an ad hoc network it is noted that the foregoing approach can advantageously be used to share data with or between devices and objects that are configured to or capable of acting as beacons only. So long as such beacons are detected by at least one sensor that is currently reporting sensor data to BCO engine those beacons can also be located within the ad hoc network by bandwidth tracking manager . Consequently such beacons can then also participate in data sharing activities with other sensors or beacons in the ad hoc network in a like manner to that described above.

Although the foregoing section describes a method for sharing data between proximally located sensors in an ad hoc network it is noted that the foregoing approach can advantageously be used to exchange data between sensors. For example two sensors that cannot or are not communicatively coupled can exchange data via BCO engine . In accordance with one or more embodiments the sensors need not be proximally located. By way of another non limiting example BCO engine can be used to exchange data between two sensors that are or can be communicatively connected such as in the case that use of BCO engine to exchange data maximizes available bandwidth and or minimizes cost.

The foregoing data sharing method can beneficially be used to easily share information with proximally located users. For example the foregoing data sharing method can be used to easily share data prepared for or generated during a meeting among the meeting participants such as meeting notes audio and or video recordings photos follow up meeting information or other data. The method can also be used for example to generate invitations or requests to other proximally located users to connect on any online social network event meeting trip or the like.

The foregoing data sharing method can advantageously provide users with real time information about proximally located people. As a result the foregoing data sharing method can advantageously be used to obtain information about a person that a user is currently meeting in real time. This may include querying a person s CV online or performing a web search about a person. The foregoing data sharing method can also be used to maintain a history of people encountered by a user over time and to display history information to the user. For example the history information for a given encounter may include such information as a time place duration event name event type or the like.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure the sharing of data with proximally located users facilitates the creation of a graph of user encounters. For example a sensor can create a mesh of encounters or connections between all discoverable devices in range. Such encounter information can be used for example to provide users with notifications concerning current or past user encounters and or to build a social graph based on accumulated real world encounters.

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure a user may create a tag for a proximally located person. This tag may then be displayed on a public profile associated with that person. In one implementation the person must approve of the tag before it is displayed on the public profile.

Each of the components of the BCO engines and sensors described herein may be implemented alone or in combination by any well known processor based computer system. An example of such a computer system is depicted in .

As shown in computer system includes a processing unit that includes one or more processors. Processor unit is connected to a communication infrastructure which may comprise for example a bus or a network.

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . Secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive a removable storage drive and or a memory stick. Removable storage drive may comprise a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash memory or the like. Removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit may comprise a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk or the like which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art s removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link and other communications channels.

As used herein the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage unit removable storage unit a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and signals received by communications interface . Computer program medium and computer useable medium can also refer to memories such as main memory and secondary memory which can be semiconductor devices e.g. DRAMs etc. . These computer program products are means for providing software to computer system .

Computer programs also called computer control logic programming logic or logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to implement features of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure as discussed herein. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where one or more embodiments are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface or communications interface .

At least one embodiment is directed to computer program products comprising software stored on any computer useable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing devices causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein. Embodiments of the present disclosure employ any computer useable or readable medium known now or in the future. Examples of computer useable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS zip disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices MEMs nanotechnology based storage device etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communication networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. .

While various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present disclosure as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly the breadth and scope of the present disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

