---

title: Display apparatus having a detection signal line used to transmit driving voltage signals to a digital driver
abstract: A display apparatus includes a DSD for outputting a digital video signal and a wiring board. The wiring board includes a first wiring portion in which signal lines used to transmit the digital video signal output from the DSD are disposed, a signal generation circuit for generating drive voltage signals, and a second wiring portion in which signal lines used to transmit the drive voltage signals to a panel substrate are disposed. In the first wiring portion, a detection signal line used to transmit the drive voltage signals to the DSD is disposed. In the signal generation circuit, an output wiring portion including output lines used to transmit the drive voltage signals to the signal lines in the second wiring portion and a detection line having one end connected to the detection signal line and the other end connected to the output lines via switches are disposed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08085240&OS=08085240&RS=08085240
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08085240
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080529
---
The present invention contains subject matter related to Japanese Patent Application JP 2007 171047 filed in the Japanese Patent Office on Jun. 28 2007 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a display apparatus including a panel substrate having a display panel with x y pixels arranged in a matrix at intersections of x x is a natural number signal lines disposed in a column direction and y y is a natural number gate lines disposed in a row direction.

In active matrix display panels such as liquid crystal display panels the number of pixels tends to increase with the increase in the degree of definition. With the increasing number of pixels a so called block sequential driving method has been used in which a panel driver for driving a display panel simultaneously applies drive voltages to pixel blocks each having a plurality of pixels continuously arranged in the scanning direction of the display panel.

In such a block sequential driving method drive voltage signals to be transmitted to a plurality of pixels for example six twelve or twenty four pixels included in each pixel block are transmitted to a display panel. Accordingly there are several to several tens of signal lines between a signal generation circuit for generating the drive voltage signal and a panel driver.

However if a high resolution image such as a Full HD image image size 1920 1080 a 2K1K image image size 2048 1024 or a 4K2K image image size 4096 2048 is displayed on a display panel using the above described block sequential driving method it is required to operate a panel driver at a high speed so as to ensure sufficient time to transmit drive voltage signals to all pixels included in one frame in synchronization with a frame rate.

As a technique for rapidly transmitting drive voltage signals to all pixels included in one frame Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 2005 77745 discloses a driving apparatus for driving a display panel using a so called pseudo line sequential driving method in which desired signal lines are sequentially selected one by one for sampling of a video signal from each of a plurality of signal line groups which are obtained by dividing signal lines included in the display panel into the signal line groups so that the sequential selection of the signal lines is simultaneously performed in the signal line groups. For example if a single signal line group includes six signal lines and a Full HD image is displayed drive voltage signals for 320 pixels are required to be simultaneously transmitted from a panel driver to pixels arranged on a display panel. In the above described pseudo line sequential driving method the number of signal lines between a signal generation circuit for generating the drive voltage signal and the panel driver can be increased to several hundreds of signal lines. As a result it is possible to ensure sufficient time to transmit drive voltage signals to all pixels included in one frame.

A display apparatus in which a display panel is driven using the pseudo line sequential driving method includes for example a DSD Digital Signal Driver for performing pieces of signal processing such as gamma correction color unevenness correction and data sorting a signal generation circuit for generating a drive voltage signal in accordance with pixel data output from the DSD and a pulse signal used to control the drive timing of a display panel and the display panel that is driven in response to a signal generated by the signal generation circuit.

In such a display apparatus drive voltage signals for 320 pixels are simultaneously transmitted to a display panel. Accordingly for example the DSD and the display panel are connected to each other at an FPC Flexible Print Circuit board and the signal generation circuit is provided on the FPC board using a COP Chip On FPC method. The reason for this is that if a driver including the signal generation circuit is externally attached to the FPC board a large number of drivers and several hundreds of output terminals of the DSD are required. This leads to upsizing of a display apparatus and an increase in system cost.

In a display apparatus there is an output deviation among drive voltage signals output from a signal generation circuit. Under the influence of the output deviation the luminance levels of pixels on a display panel also vary. This leads to degradation in image quality. In order to analyze and correct the influence of the output deviation it is required to detect the drive voltage signals output from output terminals of the signal generation circuit.

However the output terminals of a signal generation circuit mounted on a printed wiring board using the COF method are individually connected to signal lines on the printed wiring board. Accordingly it is very difficult to form a signal line for detection of a drive voltage signal on the printed wiring board.

It is desirable to provide a display apparatus that includes on a wiring board on which a plurality of signal lines are provided in parallel with each other a signal generation circuit for generating drive voltage signals used to drive pixels arranged on a display panel and that is capable of detecting an output deviation among the drive voltage signals output from the signal generation circuit.

A display apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a panel substrate on which a display panel and a signal line selection unit are disposed. The display panel has x y pixels arranged in a matrix at intersections of x x is a natural number signal lines disposed in a column direction and y y is a natural number gate lines disposed in a row direction. The signal line selection unit sequentially selects k signal lines included in each of x k signal line groups obtained by dividing the x signal lines into the x k signal line groups each including the k signal lines that are adjacent to each other without overlapping each other so that the sequential selection of the k signal lines is simultaneously performed in the x k signal line groups and supplies drive voltage signals to a total of x k selected signal lines. The display apparatus includes an input unit configured to receive a digital video signal composed of pieces of pixel data arranged in a predetermined scanning direction a digital signal processing section including a data arrangement conversion unit configured to convert the digital video signal received by the input unit into a total of x k pixel data strings by sequentially selecting k pieces of pixel data included in each of a total of x k pixel data groups obtained by dividing x pieces of pixel data arranged in the same column direction into the x k pixel data groups each including the k pieces of pixel data that are adjacent to each other without overlapping each other and an output unit configured to output digital video signals corresponding to the pixel data strings converted by the data arrangement conversion unit as a total of p phase p is a natural number satisfying p

In a display apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention on a wiring board a detection signal line used to transmit a drive voltage signal generated by a signal generation circuit to a digital signal processing section as a detection signal is disposed in a first wiring portion. A detection line having one end connected to the detection signal line and the other end connected via switches to any output lines for outputting the drive voltage signal is disposed in the signal generation circuit. Accordingly an output deviation among drive voltage signals output from the output lines in the signal generation circuit which are individually connected to signal lines in a second wiring portion can be detected.

A display apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a panel substrate having a display panel with x y pixels arranged in a matrix at intersections of x x is a natural number signal lines disposed in a column direction and y y is a natural number gate lines disposed in a row direction. The description of an embodiment of the present invention will be made below using a liquid crystal display apparatus as an example of the above described display apparatus. The liquid crystal display apparatus includes a panel substrate and a liquid crystal display panel formed on the panel substrate. The liquid crystal display panel is obtained by disposing two electrode substrates at least one of which is a transparent substrate opposite to each other and sandwiching a liquid crystal therebetween and performs modulation of incident light upon receiving a drive voltage signal through the liquid crystal.

The liquid crystal display apparatus includes a panel substrate R with a display panel R for red a panel substrate G with a display panel G for green and a panel substrate B with a display panel B for blue. These display panels are liquid crystal display panels installed in for example a three plate liquid crystal projector.

Furthermore the liquid crystal display apparatus includes a DSD Digital Signal Driver for performing predetermined digital signal processing upon an externally supplied digital video signal a wiring board R with a signal generation circuit R for driving the display panel R a wiring board G with a signal generation circuit G for driving the display panel G and a wiring board B with a signal generation circuit B for driving the display panel B.

In the liquid crystal display apparatus having the above described configuration the configurations of the panel substrates R G and B are the same except that the output wavelength ranges of a video signal thereof are different from each other. Accordingly in the following description will be made by taking the panel substrate R and the wiring board R connected to the panel substrate R as an example.

As illustrated in the panel substrate R is provided with the display panel R including the x y pixels arranged in a matrix at intersections of the x signal lines disposed in a column direction and the y gate lines disposed in a row direction.

In the following description will be made by taking a liquid crystal display panel for outputting a FULL HD picture in which the 1920 1080 pixels are arranged at intersections of the 1920 signal lines disposed in a column direction and the 1080 gate lines disposed in a row direction as a concrete example of the display panel R having the above described configuration.

The panel substrate R is provided with a signal line selection switch group connected to the signal lines and a vertical drive circuit connected to the gate lines so as to drive the display panel R.

The pixels each includes a TFT Thin Film Transistor not illustrated and a liquid crystal cell not illustrated . The gate electrode of the TFT is connected to a corresponding one of the gate lines the source electrode thereof is connected to a corresponding one of the signal lines and the drain electrode thereof is connected to one of electrodes pixel electrode of the liquid crystal cell.

The signal line selection switch group includes a plurality of switches used to transmit a drive voltage signal transmitted from the wiring board R which will be described later to the signal lines .

The vertical drive circuit is connected to the gate lines so as to sequentially select the gate lines .

In the panel substrate R having the above described configuration drive voltage signals are sequentially transmitted to the pixels using a so called pseudo line sequential driving method. Accordingly the signal line selection switch group sequentially selects the k signal lines included in each of x k signal line groups which are obtained by dividing the x signal lines into the x k signal line groups each having the k signal lines that are adjacent to each other without overlapping each other so that the sequential selection of the k signal lines is simultaneously performed in the x k signal line groups.

For example as illustrated in the signal line selection switch group includes 320 signal line switches   to   for 320 signal line groups obtained by dividing the 1920 signal lines into the signal line groups each including six signal lines that are adjacent to each other without overlapping each other.

Each of the signal line switches   to   sequentially selects signal lines one by one in a scanning direction so that the signal line switches   to   simultaneously perform the sequential selection of signal lines and supplies a drive voltage signal transmitted from the wiring board to the selected signal line .

The DSD includes a video signal processing section for performing predetermined video signal processing upon a digital video signal a timing generator for generating a timing pulse used to control the operation of each of the panel substrates R G and B a data arrangement conversion section for converting arrangement of pieces of pixel data included in a digital video signal a correction section for correcting the digital video signal and an output section for outputting the digital video signal to the wiring board R.

The video signal processing section performs gamma correction and color unevenness correction upon each of externally supplied R G and B digital video signals and supplies the processed digital video signal to the data arrangement conversion section .

The timing generator generates a timing pulse used to synchronize the operations of the signal generation circuits R G and B on the basis of a reference clock signal CLK a horizontal synchronizing signal HSYNC and a vertical synchronizing signal VSYNC which are externally supplied and supplies the generated timing pulse to each of the signal generation circuits R G and B. Furthermore the timing generator generates a timing pulse used to synchronize the operations of the display panels R G and B and supplies the generated timing pulse to each of the display panels R G and B.

The data arrangement conversion section converts the arrangement of pieces of pixel data included in a digital video signal supplied from the video signal processing section on the basis of the above described driving method of the display panel R that is the pseudo line sequential driving method in the following manner. That is the data arrangement conversion section converts the digital video signal into a total of x k 320 pixel data strings by dividing the x 1920 pieces of pixel data arranged in the same direction into a total of x k 320 pixel data groups each including k six pieces of pixel data that are adjacent to each other without overlapping each other and sequentially selecting the k six pieces of pixel data included in each of the x k 320 pixel data groups. The data arrangement conversion section supplies a digital video signal for each of the converted pixel data strings to the correction section .

The correction section corrects pieces of pixel data included in the digital video signal supplied from the video signal processing section through the data arrangement conversion section in response to a detection signal supplied from the signal generation circuit R which will be described later and supplies the corrected digital video signal for each of the pixel data strings to the output section .

The output section receives the digital video signals each of which is for one of the pixel data strings from the correction section and outputs the received digital video signals as a total of p phase p is a natural number satisfying p

The wiring board R to which the digital video signal is supplied from the DSD is an FPC Flexible Print Circuit board on which a plurality of signal lines are arranged in parallel with each other. On the wiring board R the signal generation circuit R is disposed using the COP Chip On FPC method. The signal generation circuit R generates x k phase 320 phase drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  from the digital video signal composed of the p phase 10 phase pieces of digital data D  to D  output from the DSD . The 320 phase drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  are transmitted to the panel substrate R via the signal lines arranged on the wiring board R.

In the liquid crystal display apparatus having the above described configuration first as illustrated in a drive voltage signal is supplied to pixels arranged at intervals of five pixels from a pixel of the left end. Subsequently as illustrated in C D E and F a drive voltage signal is supplied to next pixels on the right side of the preceding pixels.

Thus in the liquid crystal display apparatus as compared with the block sequential driving method the number of pixels capable of being updated at a time is markedly increased. For example 320 pixels can be updated at a time. Accordingly it is possible to ensure sufficient time to supply drive voltage signals to all pixels included in one frame. That is in the liquid crystal display apparatus for example a drive voltage applied to 320 pixels among the pixels arranged in a matrix on the display panel R at a time can be updated.

In order to achieve the above described driving of the display panel R as described previously the signal generation circuit R disposed on the wiring board R is required to simultaneously output 320 phase drive voltage signals. In the signal generation circuit R an output deviation among the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  occurs. Under the influence of the output deviation variations among the luminance levels of the pixels on the display panel R occur. This leads to degradation in image quality.

However since output terminals of the signal generation circuit R disposed on the wiring board R are individually connected to signal lines on the wiring board R it is difficult to dispose a line for detection of a drive voltage signal on the wiring board R.

Next the configuration and operation of the liquid crystal display apparatus capable of detecting a drive voltage signal output from the signal generation circuit R disposed on the wiring board R will be described below.

In the first wiring portion p ten signal lines   to   used to transmit the p phase 10 phase pieces of digital data D  to D  to the signal generation circuit R are arranged in parallel with each other.

Furthermore in the first wiring portion a signal line   for transmitting a reset signal TREST that has been supplied from the timing generator included in the DSD as a timing signal used to control the operation of the signal generation circuit R and a signal line   for transmitting a clock signal TCLK are disposed.

Still furthermore in the first wiring portion a detection signal line   for transmitting the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  generated by the signal generation circuit R to the DSD as detection signals SENS is disposed.

In the second wiring portion a total of 320 signal lines   to   used to transmit the x k phase 320 phase drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  generated by the signal generation circuit R to the panel substrate R are disposed in parallel with each other.

The signal generation circuit R includes a signal processing unit for generating the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  from the 10 phase pieces of digital data D  to D  an output wiring portion including output lines Y  to Y  used to output the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  generated by the signal processing unit a detection line Ys connected to the output lines Y  to Y  via first switches SW  to SW  second switches SW  to SW  for individually connecting the output lines Y  to Y  to the signal lines   to   included in the second wiring portion and a switching control unit for controlling the first switches SW  to SW  and the second switches SW  to SW .

The signal processing unit generates the 320 phase drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  from the 10 phase pieces of digital data D  to D  transmitted from the signal lines   to   and outputs the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  to the output lines Y  to Y  respectively. In order to prevent deterioration of a device caused by application of a DC voltage to a liquid crystal of the display panel R the polarity of each of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  with respect to a reference voltage VCOM changes at each period of the driving voltage signal. That is each of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  is composed of a noninverting signal used to apply a voltage to a positive polarity with respect to the reference voltage VCOM at the first period and an inverting signal used to apply a voltage to a negative polarity with respect to the reference voltage VCOM at the next period.

In the output wiring portion each output line Y n is bifurcated into two lines that are individually connected to the first switch SWand the second switch SW

One end of the detection line Ys is connected to the detection signal line   disposed in the first wiring portion and the other end thereof is connected to the first switches SW  to SW . That is the detection line Ys detects the drive voltage signal VSIG n output from any output line Y n as the detection signal SENS when any single first switch SWis closed and outputs the detection signal SENS to the detection signal line  .

The second switches SW  to SW  connect the output lines Y  to Y  to the signal lines   to   included in the second wiring portion respectively.

The switching control unit controls the opening and closing of the first switches SW  to SW  and the second switches SW  to SW  in response to the reset signal TREST and the clock signal TCLK supplied from the first wiring portion .

As illustrated in the switching control unit counts the number of pulses of the clock signal TCLK transmitted in response to the reset signal TREST functioning as a trigger signal and performs control processing for closing only the first switch SWcorresponding to the count number among the first switches SW  to SW . For example if the detection line Ys and the output line Y n are connected to each other the switching control unit transmits the clock signal TCLK having n pulses and then stops the supply of the clock signal TCLK so as to close only the first switch SW. Consequently the output line Y n is connected to the detection line Ys.

The switching control unit can accurately detect the drive voltage signal VSIG n output from the output line Y n by opening the second switch SWin synchronization with the detection of the drive voltage signal VSIG n performed by the detection line Ys. The reason for this is that the connection between the output line Y n and the signal line in the second wiring portion is released by the opening of the second switch SWand a signal with no load characteristic of the display panel R can be detected.

The switching control unit performs the above described operations thereby enabling the signal generation circuit R to transmit the drive voltage signal VSIG n output from the any output line Y n as the detection signal SENS to the DSD via the detection line Ys and the detection signal line   included in the first wiring portion .

In the liquid crystal display apparatus provided with the wiring board R having the above described configuration the detection signal line   for transmitting the drive voltage signal VSIG n generated by the signal generation circuit R to the DSD as the detection signal SENS is disposed in the first wiring portion and the detection line Ys that has one end connected to the detection signal line   and the other end connected to the first switch SWand outputs the drive voltage signal VSIG n via the first switch SWis disposed in the signal generation circuit R. Accordingly by detecting as the detection signal SENS the drive voltage signal VSIG n output from the output line Y n in the signal generation circuit R which is connected to the signal line in the second wiring portion the occurrence of an output deviation among the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  can be detected.

In order to reduce the output deviation detected as described previously in the liquid crystal display apparatus the correction section included in the DSD performs the following correction processing on the basis of the detection signal SENS transmitted from the detection signal line   included in the first wiring portion .

In order to focus attention on the output of the drive voltage signal VSIG n to the detection signal line   in the first wiring portion as the detection signal SENS the wiring board R illustrated in detects the single drive voltage signal VSIG n for convenience of explanation.

On the other hand pixel data correction processing will be described below in which any two drive voltage signals VSIG n are simultaneously detected and are then output from the wiring board R to the DSD as two detection signals SENS and pixel data correction is performed on the basis of the result of comparison between the two detection signals SENS.

First as illustrated in two detection lines  and  used to simultaneously output two drive voltage signals VSIG n as detection signals SENS and SENS are disposed in the first wiring portion at the wiring board R. As described preciously the signal generation circuit R includes the signal processing unit the switching control unit the output lines Y  to Y  the first switches SW  to SW  and the second switches SW  to SW . The electrical connection relationship of these components are the same as that of components included in the signal generation circuit R illustrated in and the description thereof will be therefore omitted.

Unlike the configuration of the signal generation circuit R illustrated in the signal generation circuit R includes two detection lines Ys  and Ys  that are connected to the two detection lines  and  included in the first wiring portion respectively.

The detection line Ys  is connected to only the first switch SW  so as to detect for example the drive voltage signal VSIG  as a specific drive voltage signal functioning as a reference signal. The detection line Ys  is connected to the first switches SW  to SW  so as to detect the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  excluding the drive voltage signals VSIG  as a drive voltage signal to be compared and is connected to the output line Y n when only the first switch SWis closed by the opening and closing control processing performed by the switching control unit .

That is at the wiring board R the drive voltage signals VSIG  is always output as the detection signal SENS and the drive voltage signal VSIG n excluding the drive voltage signals VSIG  is output as the detection signal SENS.

The correction section to which the two detection signals SENS and SENS are simultaneously supplied performs the following processing so as to make an output signal level of each of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  conform to that of the drive voltage signal VSIG  output from the signal processing unit .

That is the correction section includes a comparison unit for comparing the detection signals SENS and SENS with each other an AD conversion unit for converting the difference between the signal levels of the detection signals SENS and SENS which have been compared with each other by the comparison unit into digitalized comparison data a correction data memory for storing the comparison data converted by the AD conversion unit as correction data a correction data selection unit for selecting correction data corresponding to pixel data to be corrected from among pieces of correction data stored in the correction data memory and a correction data selection unit for selecting correction data corresponding to pixel data to be corrected from among pieces of correction data stored in the correction data memory and an adding unit for adding the correction data selected by the correction data selection unit to the pixel data to be corrected.

The comparison unit detects the difference of the signal levels of the detection signals SENS and SENS as a comparison signal and supplies the comparison signal to the AD conversion unit .

The AD conversion unit converts the comparison signal supplied from the comparison unit into digitalized comparison data and supplies the comparison data to the correction data memory .

For example as illustrated in the correction data memory stores pieces of noninverting signal correction data C  to C  used to correct noninverting signals of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  and pieces of inverting signal correction data C  to C  used to correct inverting signals of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG . As illustrated in noninverting signal correction data Cused to correct a noninverting signal of the drive voltage signal VSIG n is composed of pieces of noninverting signal correction data C  to C  corresponding to 256 gradation levels. The inverting signal correction data Cis similarly composed of pieces of inverting signal correction data C  to C  corresponding to a plurality of gradation levels.

For example as pieces of correction data stored in the correction data memory pieces of noninverting signal correction data C   to C   used to correct noninverting signals of 126 gradation levels are obtained in the following manner.

That is the liquid crystal display apparatus externally receives a digital video signal in which all pixels included in one frame are of 126 gradation levels and causes the signal generation circuit R to generate the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  that are continuous noninverting signals in response to the digital video signal. Here the signal generation circuit R on the wiring board R generates DC voltage signals. However by opening all of the second switches SW  to SW  at the time of detection processing the application of a DC voltage to a liquid crystal in the display panel R can be prevented.

The correction section compares the drive voltage signal VSIG  with each of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  using the detection signals SENS and SENS thereby obtaining the pieces of noninverting signal correction data C   to C   used to correct the noninverting signals of 126 gradation levels.

The correction data selection unit selects correction data corresponding to the gradation level of pixel data to be corrected from among pieces of correction data in the correction data memory and reads the selected correction data from the correction data memory . For example if the gradation level L of target pixel data to be corrected is between gradation levels and and the target pixel data is output from the signal generation circuit R as the drive voltage signal VSIG  that is a noninverting signal the correction data selection unit reads the pieces of noninverting signal correction data C   and C   as pieces of correction data for noninverting signals.

The adding unit adds the correction data read by the correction data selection unit to the pixel data to be corrected. As described previously if the gradation level L of the target pixel data to be corrected is between gradation levels and and the target pixel data is output from the signal generation circuit R as the drive voltage signal VSIG  the adding unit adds a correction value CORR obtained by the following equation

Thus in the correction section the difference between the drive voltage signal VSIG  and each of the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  is stored as correction data in the correction data memory in advance. Using the correction data stored in the correction data memory pixel data is corrected. Using the corrected pixel data the signal generation circuit R can generate the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG  whose signal level is made conform to that of the drive voltage signal VSIG  thereby reducing an output deviation among the drive voltage signals VSIG  to VSIG .

It should be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications combinations sub combinations and alterations may occur depending on design requirements and other factors insofar as they are within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

