---

title: Method and apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic intersection
abstract: A method and apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic roundabout having a central island surrounded by a circulatory lane is disclosed. The method involves receiving an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the roundabout, and receiving operator input of a design dimension for the roundabout, the design dimension defining a size of one of the central island and an outer perimeter of the circulatory lane. The method also involves generating a circulatory path of the design vehicle traveling within the design dimension along the circulatory lane, and generating vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the circulatory path. The method also involves using the vehicle extent locations to compute a circulatory lane width, and generating display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the roundabout.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650004&OS=08650004&RS=08650004
owner: Transoft Solutions, Inc.
number: 08650004
owner_city: Richmond, British Columbia
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20081126
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Application of PCT CA2008 002098 filed Nov. 26 2008 the contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to traffic intersections and more particularly to displaying a representation of a traffic intersection.

Traffic intersections may be designed by laying out the roadways and intersection area on a computer using a computer aided design CAD application. Once the roadways have been initially defined the intersection may be tested to determine whether certain types of vehicle can pass through the intersection without encroaching on curbs or islands making up the intersection. The testing may involve generating a vehicle swept path by producing a scaled representation of the vehicle and then simulating passage of the design vehicle through the intersection to determine whether any encroachment exists. Should changes to the initial roadway definition be necessary to eliminate encroachments features of the intersection would have to be manually modified and then the vehicle swept path regenerated.

Designing traffic roundabouts is particularly problematic. A roundabout is a traffic intersection having a central island surrounded by a circulatory roadway and having one or more approach roadways. The circulatory roadway includes at least one lane and should be sized to provide for adequate maneuvering space for different vehicles that will use the intersection. A designer of a roundabout will generally take into account a defined design vehicle that is expected to use the roundabout and may also face other constraints that should be simultaneously satisfied. For example a fastest path of a defined passenger vehicle may be taken into account to ensure that smaller vehicles are not able to operate at unsafe speeds through a roundabout that is sized to permit passage of a large articulated vehicle.

Satisfying several constraints may involve defining an initial size and layout of the roundabout which is then tested to determine whether the design vehicle is able to maneuver through the intersection without encroaching on the central island outer edges of the circulatory roadway or any other outer edges of the intersection. Should the design vehicle be able to pass without encroachment the fastest path of a smaller design vehicle may also be determined and speeds of the vehicle along the path computed to determine whether the intersection meets safety criteria. Should changes to the initial layout be necessary to satisfy either of these constraints the process may have to be repeated for each change resulting in an iterative process that may become tedious and time consuming.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention there is provided a method for displaying a representation of a traffic intersection on a display of a computer. The method involves receiving operator input defining a relative orientation between a first roadway and a second roadway the first and second roadways forming an intersection area therebetween. The method also involves receiving an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the traffic intersection the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters. The method further involves generating at least one turning path of the design vehicle through the intersection between the first roadway and the second roadway and generating first vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the at least one turning path. The method also involves generating an outer edge of the intersection area the outer edge being generally aligned with selected ones of the first vehicle extent locations and generating display signals for causing the computer display to display an image representing the traffic intersection.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic intersection on a display. The apparatus includes a processor circuit operably configured to receive operator input defining a relative orientation between a first roadway and a second roadway the first and second roadways forming an intersection area therebetween. The processor circuit is also operably configured to receive an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the traffic intersection the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters. The processor circuit is further operably configured to generate at least one turning path of the design vehicle through the intersection between the first roadway and the second roadway and to generate first vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the at least one turning path. The processor circuit is also operably configured to generate an outer edge of the intersection area the outer edge being generally aligned with selected ones of the first vehicle extent locations and to generate display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the traffic intersection.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic intersection on a display the method. The apparatus includes provisions for receiving operator input defining a relative orientation between a first roadway and a second roadway the first and second roadways forming an intersection area therebetween. The apparatus also includes provisions for receiving an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the traffic intersection the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters. The apparatus further includes provisions for generating at least one turning path of the design vehicle through the intersection between the first roadway and the second roadway and provisions for generating first vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the at least one turning path. The apparatus also includes provisions for generating an outer edge of the intersection area the outer edge being generally aligned with selected ones of the first vehicle extent locations and provisions for generating display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the traffic intersection.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer readable medium encoded with codes for directing a processor circuit to display a representation of a traffic intersection the codes for directing the processor circuit to receive operator input defining a relative orientation between a first roadway and a second roadway the first and second roadways forming an intersection area therebetween. The codes also direct the processor circuit to receive an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the traffic intersection the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters generate at least one turning path of the design vehicle through the intersection between the first roadway and the second roadway. The codes also direct the processor circuit to generate first vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the at least one turning path and to generate an outer edge of the intersection area the outer edge being generally aligned with selected ones of the first vehicle extent locations. The codes also direct the processor circuit to generate display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the traffic intersection.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a computer readable signal encoded with codes for directing a processor circuit to display a representation of a traffic intersection the codes for directing the processor circuit to receive operator input defining a relative orientation between a first roadway and a second roadway the first and second roadways forming an intersection area therebetween. The codes also direct the processor circuit to receive an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the traffic intersection the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters generate at least one turning path of the design vehicle through the intersection between the first roadway and the second roadway. The codes also direct the processor circuit to generate first vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the at least one turning path and to generate an outer edge of the intersection area the outer edge being generally aligned with selected ones of the first vehicle extent locations. The codes also direct the processor circuit to generate display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the traffic intersection.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for displaying a representation of a traffic roundabout on a display of a computer the roundabout having a central island surrounded by a circulatory lane. The method involves receiving an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the roundabout the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters. The method also involves receiving operator input of a design dimension for the roundabout the design dimension defining a size of one of the central island and an outer perimeter of the circulatory lane. The method further involves generating a circulatory path of the design vehicle traveling within the design dimension along the circulatory lane and generating vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the circulatory path. The method also involves using the vehicle extent locations to compute a circulatory lane width and generating display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the roundabout.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic roundabout on a display the roundabout having a central island surrounded by a circulatory lane. The apparatus includes a processor circuit operably configured to receive an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the roundabout the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters. The processor circuit is also operably configured to receive operator input of a design dimension for the roundabout the design dimension defining a size of one of the central island and an outer perimeter of the circulatory lane. The processor circuit is further operably configured to generate a circulatory path of the design vehicle traveling within the design dimension along the circulatory lane and to generate vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the circulatory path. The processor circuit is also operably configured to use the vehicle extent locations to compute a circulatory lane width and to generate display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the roundabout.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic roundabout on a display of a computer the roundabout having a central island surrounded by a circulatory lane. The apparatus includes provisions for receiving an operator selection of a design vehicle that is expected to use the roundabout the design vehicle being defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters. The apparatus also includes provisions for receiving operator input of a design dimension for the roundabout the design dimension defining a size of one of the central island and an outer perimeter of the circulatory lane. The apparatus further includes provisions for generating a circulatory path of the design vehicle traveling within the design dimension along the circulatory lane and provisions for generating vehicle extent locations associated with passage of the design vehicle along the circulatory path. The apparatus also includes provisions for computing a circulatory lane width using the vehicle extent locations and provisions for generating display signals for causing the display to display an image representing the roundabout.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Referring to a block diagram of an apparatus for displaying a representation of a traffic intersection is shown generally at . The apparatus includes a CAD system having an input for receiving operator input and an output for producing display signals. In the embodiment shown the apparatus also includes a display for displaying an image representing the traffic intersection in response to receiving the display signals. The CAD system includes an interface that provides access to the CAD system functions implemented by the CAD system .

The apparatus also includes a traffic intersection functional block which provides functions for causing the CAD system to produce the display signals representing the traffic intersection. The intersection functional block interfaces with the CAD system through the interface .

The CAD system may be provided by causing a computer to execute CAD system software such as the AutoCAD software application available from Autodesk Inc. of San Rafael Calif. USA. AutoCAD provides drawing elements such as lines polylines circles arcs and other complex elements. Customization of AutoCAD is provided through ObjectARX AutoCAD Runtime Extension which is an application programming interface API that permits access to a class based model of AutoCAD drawing elements. Customization code may be written in a programming language such as C which may be compiled to provide the functionality represented as the roundabout functional block .

Other CAD systems such as MicroStation sold by Bentley Systems Inc. of Exton Pa. USA provide similar CAD functionality and interfaces for customization. Advantageously using existing CAD software applications to provide standard CAD functionality allows operators to produce drawing files representing the traffic intersection using a familiar software application. The resulting drawing files may also be saved in such a manner to permit other operators who do not have access to the traffic intersection functional block to view and or edit the drawings.

The processor circuit includes a microprocessor a program memory a variable memory a media reader and an input output port I O all of which are in communication with the microprocessor .

Program codes for directing the microprocessor to carry out various functions are stored in the program memory which may be implemented as a random access memory RAM and or a hard disk drive HDD or a combination thereof. The program memory includes a first block of program codes for directing the microprocessor to perform operating system functions and a second block of program codes for directing the microprocessor to perform CAD system functions for implementing the CAD system shown in . The program memory also includes a third block of program codes for directing the microprocessor to perform traffic intersection representation functions and a fourth block of program codes for directing the microprocessor to provide an interface between the CAD functions and the traffic intersection representation functions.

The media reader facilitates loading program codes into the program memory from a computer readable medium such as a CD ROM disk or a computer readable signal such as may be received over a network such as the internet for example.

The I O includes a first input for receiving operator input signals from a pointing device . The pointing device may be a computer mouse trackball or digitizing tablet or other device operable to produce pointer movement signals. The I O also includes a second input for receiving operator input signals from a character input device such as a keyboard . The I O further includes a first output for producing display signals for driving the display . In the embodiment shown in a plotter is also provided for producing a hardcopy of the traffic intersection representation and the I O further includes a second output for producing signals for controlling the plotter . The plotter may be a large format plotter for printing a plan of the traffic intersection.

The variable memory includes a plurality of storage locations including a database store for storing design vehicle parameters and a store for storing reference line coordinates. The variable memory also includes stores and for storing various values and parameters used in generating a representation of an intersection as described later herein. The variable memory further includes a store for storing a turning path and for storing vehicle extent locations and a store for storing design vehicle selections. The variable memory also includes a store for storing a plurality of offsets and a store for storing various values and parameters associated with generating a representation of a traffic roundabout as described later herein. The variable memory may be implemented as a hard drive for example.

An exemplary representation of an at grade traffic intersection is shown generally at in . In general the CAD system provides functions for displaying the lines curves and other elements that make up the intersection representation . In the embodiment shown each element of the intersection representation is defined using two dimensional x y coordinates in a Cartesian coordinate system as indicated by coordinate axes x and y shown at .

Referring to a flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit to display the traffic intersection representation is shown generally at . The process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to receive operator input at the inputs and of the I O defining a relative orientation between a first roadway and a second roadway . The first and second roadways and are oriented to form an intersection area therebetween.

Block then directs the microprocessor to receive an operator selection of a design vehicle which is expected to use the traffic intersection. The design vehicle is defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters stored in the design vehicle database shown in .

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to generate at least one turning path of the design vehicle through the intersection between the first roadway and the second roadway . Block then directs the microprocessor to generate first vehicle extent locations and associated with passage of the design vehicle along the turning path . In the embodiment shown in the turning path is a centerline path along which the design vehicle travels.

Block then directs the microprocessor to generate an outer edge of the intersection area the outer edge being generally aligned with the vehicle extent locations .

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to generate display signals at the output shown in for causing the display to display an image representing the traffic intersection such as the representation shown in .

Blocks may then be repeated to generate a second turning path of the design vehicle from the second roadway to the first roadway and to generate vehicle extent locations and which are then used to define a second outer edge of the intersection area .

The design vehicle will generally be a vehicle of a larger size such as the articulated design vehicle shown in . In general the selected design vehicle will be able to travel through the displayed intersection without encroaching on the outer edges or or other portions of the intersection lying outside the intersection area . Even larger vehicles than the design vehicle may still be able to travel through the intersection by encroaching on the outer edges or or a splitter island located in the intersection area .

The orientation of the first roadway is defined by a first reference line and the orientation of the second roadway is defined by a second reference line . The first and second reference lines and are defined in the Cartesian coordinate system and receiving the operator input defining the relative orientation between the first roadway and the second roadway involves receiving operator input of data defining the first and second reference lines and at the inputs and of the I O . The data defining the reference lines and may include coordinates of endpoints of the reference lines and for example. The coordinates are stored in the reference line coordinates store shown in .

Referring to side view representations of exemplary design vehicles are shown at and respectively. The design vehicle is a WB40 standard bus the design vehicle is a WB 50 semi trailer and the design vehicle is a standard passenger car. The vehicles and are taken from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials AASHTO library of standard design vehicles.

Each of the design vehicles and are defined by a plurality of design vehicle parameters stored in the database shown in . Referring to a table listing exemplary parameters for the design vehicles is shown generally at . The parameter listing includes a steering lock angle parameter representing an angle through which the steering of the vehicle is capable of turning from a straight ahead condition. The parameter listing also includes dimensions for overall vehicle length front overhang body width and wheelbase . The front overhang dimension is taken from the center of the front wheel to the front extent of the vehicle and the wheelbase is the dimension between front and rear axles of the vehicle. For the WB 50 design vehicle the wheelbase dimension is taken between the center of the front wheel and the center of a rear axle group which includes two spaced apart axles each having 4 wheels.

The parameter listing also includes parameters associated with a front axle group including the number of wheels per axle and a track dimension . In this embodiment the track dimension is the distance between outer edges of the tire tread measured across the axle. Conventionally track dimensions generally refer to a distance between respective centers of the outer wheel tire tread but for intersection design the outside of the tire tread is relevant for defining intersection features. Accordingly when populating the design vehicle database the conventional track dimensions are adjusted to correspond to the distance between the outer edges of the tire tread measured across the axle.

The parameter listing also includes parameters associated with a rear axle group including the number of wheels per axle and a track dimension . The parameter listing further includes a number of parts parameter which when set to 1 indicates that the vehicle is an unarticulated vehicle and for values of 2 or higher indicates that the vehicle articulated. The vehicle is articulated and includes a tractor portion and a trailer portion connected to the tractor portion at a pivot location . The parameter listing also includes a pivot location dimension which is referenced to the center of the rear axle group of the tractor .

The parameter listing also includes trailer parameters such as a trailer length parameter and an articulating angle parameter . The articulating angle parameter represents is a maximum angle that may exist between a longitudinal centerline of a tractor portion and a longitudinal centerline of a trailer portion when turning the vehicle.

The database shown in stores sets of parameters for a plurality of design vehicles such as the vehicles to shown in and facilitates selection of such vehicles for producing the representation of the traffic roundabout. For example Libraries of various standard design vehicles are implemented in the AutoTURN software product available from Transoft Solutions Inc. of British Columbia Canada. The libraries include commonly used design vehicles for different countries and also provide for custom definition of vehicles not available in the standard libraries.

Referring to an operator interface displayed by AutoTURN for entering or editing design vehicle parameters stored in the database is shown generally at . In this embodiment the vehicle is represented by generally simple box shapes and and the operator inputs various dimensions for the design vehicle in the fields provided. In other embodiments more realistic design vehicles may be provided by modifying the box shapes and to more accurately represent the actual vehicle shape.

In this embodiment when generating the turning path at block of the design vehicle is represented by a bicycle model. The use of a bicycle model simplifies computation of coordinate locations along the turning path thereby providing improved computational efficiency.

Referring to a bicycle model for the design vehicle includes a front wheel and a rear wheel which are separated by a distance corresponding to a wheelbase dimension of the design vehicle . The front and rear wheels and are centered between the respective front and rear wheels of the design vehicle i.e. the front and rear wheels are each located at half of the respective track dimensions and shown in . In the embodiment shown the front wheels of the design vehicle are steerable and the corresponding front wheel of the bicycle model is also steerable while the rear wheel of the bicycle model is fixed. In other embodiments the design vehicle may have steerable rear wheels in place of or in addition to steerable front wheels and the bicycle model may thus include a corresponding steerable rear wheel or steerable front and rear wheels.

For any arbitrary location of the bicycle model the design vehicle parameters stored in the design vehicle database may be used to determine corresponding locations of the wheels of the design vehicle. For example the front left hand wheel of the design vehicle is spaced apart from the front wheel of the bicycle model by half of the track width dimension in a direction perpendicular to the wheelbase . Locations of other vehicle extents such as the right hand rear wheel may be similarly computed using the design vehicle parameters.

For more complex design vehicles such as the design vehicle shown in a representative bicycle model may be generated that includes a bicycle model portion for the tractor portion of the design vehicle and a bicycle model portion for the trailer portion of the design vehicle. The bicycle model portion includes front and rear wheels and separated by a distance corresponding to a wheelbase dimension of the tractor . The bicycle model portion includes a fixed rear wheel which is separated by a distance from the pivot . The distance corresponds to a wheelbase dimension of the trailer portion of the design vehicle . In other embodiments the rear wheel may also be steerable to correspond to an articulated vehicle having rear wheels of the trailer portion coupled to a steering mechanism to facilitate improved steerability of the articulated vehicle.

A flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit to implement a process for generating the turning path and vehicle extent locations of the design vehicle bocks and of is shown at in and .

Referring to the process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to receive operator input of a plurality of parameters for generating the turning path including a turning radius R a speed v of the design vehicle through the turn a side friction factor f associated with a surface of the first and second roadways and a superelevation parameter e defining the cross slope of the roadway and a clearance allowance offset value D. The superelevation e is expressed as a percentage value and when e is positive the superelevation defines a slope that assists the design vehicle in completing the turn while negative values of e define a slope that make completion of the turn more difficult for the design vehicle. The parameters R v f e and Dare stored in the store of the variable memory .

Block then directs the microprocessor to compute a minimum turn radius R. In this embodiment the minimum turn radius is computed in accordance with the formula 

The radius Ris computed using the values stored in the store of the variable memory and the computed Rvalue is stored in the store .

Note that for units other than meters and kilometers the values of the numerical constants in Eqn 1 would have to be modified accordingly.

Block then directs the microprocessor to determine whether the turn radius Rinput by the operator is less then the minimum turn radius R in which case block directs the microprocessor to write the value of Rinto the store as the turning radius R. In other embodiments block may direct the microprocessor to generate a warning signal for displaying a warning to inform the operator that the selected turn radius is not a feasible turn radius. For example the warning signal may cause an audible tone to be generated and or causing an operator interface to be displayed to alert the operator. If at block the turn radius Rinput by the operator is not less then the minimum turn radius Rthe process continues at block .

The turning path shown in is shown in greater detail in . Referring to the turning path includes an approach portion a first transition portion a circular arc turning portion a second transition portion and a departure portion . The approach portion is aligned with the second reference line and the departure portion is aligned with the first reference line . The first reference line and second reference line are oriented at an angle to each other. The angle is set by the operator at block of when input of the roadway orientations is received. In this embodiment the reference lines and are straight lines but in other embodiments the reference lines may be curved and the approach and departure portions and may have corresponding curvatures that correspond to the reference line curvature.

Block then directs the microprocessor to locate a bicycle model of the design vehicle on the approach path and then to move the bicycle model along the approach path by successive increments of D until a front wheel of the bicycle model is at a start of the first transition portion . In this embodiment the approach portion is spaced inwardly from the second reference line by a distance corresponding to half of the front axle track the design vehicle and a further offset Dis added to provide a clearance allowance for the vehicle traveling through the intersection. The bicycle model represents the design vehicle which in this example is an unarticulated vehicle such as the bus 40 vehicle shown in .

Block also directs the microprocessor to compute vehicle extent locations at each location along the approach portion . Referring back to for the turn shown in the vehicle extents are defined by the right hand rear wheel and the left hand front wheel . Selection of these wheels as defining the vehicle extents is based on the assumption that while the wheel should clear any curb other vehicle features that may protrude beyond the wheels are located at a sufficient height to pass above the curb. Should the curb be higher than usual or any other vehicle features be located at a height which would cause it to encroach on the curb such features may be selected as vehicle extents in preference to the right hand rear wheel and the left hand front wheel . Referring back to block also directs the microprocessor to write coordinate values of locations of the front and rear wheels and along the approach portion and coordinates of the corresponding vehicle extents of the design vehicle to the store of the variable memory .

Referring back to the vehicle extent locations for the left hand front wheel are shown at and the vehicle extent locations for the right hand rear wheel are shown at . The vehicle extent locations and each include a successive plurality of coordinate locations spaced apart by a distance D.

The first transition portion of the turning path represents a portion of the turn during which a driver of the design vehicle is turning the steering to cause the vehicle to begin steering through the turn. In this embodiment the first transition portion has a generally spiral shape having reducing radius as the bicycle model moves along the first transition portion.

Block then directs the microprocessor to compute a steering increment . In this embodiment the steering increment is computed in accordance with the following formulae 

The value of tmay be measured for each design vehicle under driving conditions or a default value such as 6 seconds may be assumed for the design vehicle.

In one embodiment the distance increment D is set to 4 inches. The value of the steering increment is then written to the store of the variable memory .

Block then directs the microprocessor to read the value of LW from the store and to turn the front wheel of the bicycle model by an angle corresponding to . The first transition portion of the turning path is shown in greater detail in . Referring to the bicycle model is shown in a first location with the front wheel having been turned through the angle while a rear wheel remains stationary.

Block then directs the microprocessor to compute a value of an instantaneous turn radius R where n 1 2 3 . . . . Computing the first radius Rinvolves determining an intersection between lines and which each extend perpendicularly outward from the respective front and rear wheels and in accordance with the formula 

The Radius Rdefines a center of rotation for a first movement of the bicycle model along the first transition portion from the first location . Block then directs the microprocessor to read the value of D from the store of the variable memory and to move the bicycle model through an arc about the center of rotation to a second location such that the front wheel is displaced by a distance D from the first location.

Block then directs the microprocessor to use the locations of the front and rear wheels and of the bicycle model to compute corresponding vehicle extent locations for the design vehicle using the values of design vehicle parameters for the design vehicle read from the design vehicle database . The vehicle extent locations are shown at and in . Block also directs the microprocessor to write coordinate values of locations of the front and rear wheels and along the first transition portion and coordinates of the corresponding vehicle extents of the design vehicle to the store of the variable memory .

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to read the value of R the operator defined turn radius and to determine whether Ris less than or equal to R. If Ris still greater than R block directs the microprocessor to block where n is incremented. Block then directs the microprocessor back to block and the blocks to of the process are repeated. At the repeat of block the front wheel is turned through a further angle and the radius Ris computed using Eqn 4 with n 2. The radius Rdefines a new center of rotation for moving the bicycle model from the second location to a third location .

It should be noted that in the spacing D is exaggerated for sake of clarity. In practice as mentioned above D may be a small increment of about 4 inches thus producing a large plurality of locations along the turning path and the vehicle extents and .

If at block the radius Rmatches the radius Rspecified by the operator as is the case for R the first transition portion of the turning path is completed and the circular arc turning portion commences at a point . Once the circular arc portion is reached the steering angle of the front wheel is held constant. Referring to block then directs the microprocessor to move the bicycle model forward about the rotational center by successive increments of D. Bock then directs the microprocessor to use the locations of the front and rear wheels and of the bicycle model to compute corresponding vehicle extent locations for the design vehicle. Block also directs the microprocessor to write coordinate values of locations of the front and rear wheels and and coordinates of the corresponding vehicle extents of the design vehicle to the store of the variable memory .

Block then directs the microprocessor to generate a mirrored shape of the second transition portion for generating a second transition portion curve shape. Mirror functions for shapes are generally provided in CAD systems such as the CAD system shown in and may be applied to produce a target shape that is a mirror image of an input shape. The mirrored shape is then positioned so that a first end of the mirrored curve corresponding to the point on the first transition portion is located tangent to the front wheel .

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to determine whether a second end of the shape of the second transition portion is parallel to the reference line . If the second end is not parallel to the reference line then block directs the microprocessor back to block and blocks to are repeated.

If at block the second end of the second transition portion is parallel to the reference line then the circular arc portion of the turning path is completed at a point and the mirrored shape is correctly positioned and forms the second transition curve . The second transition curve extends between the points and and represents a portion of the turn during which a driver of the design vehicle is turning the steering to cause the vehicle to begin steering out of the turn. In this embodiment the second transition portion has a generally spiral shape having increasing radius as the bicycle model moves along the second transition portion.

Block then directs the microprocessor to move the bicycle model along the second transition portion and the departure portion by successive increments of D and to compute vehicle extent locations at each location along the turning path . At each successive increment the steering angle is decremented by where is an angle between the current steering angle of the front wheel of the bicycle model and a line drawn tangent to the turning path at each successive location. The front wheel of the bicycle model is then moved to the next successive location located D along the turning path . At each successive location bock also directs the microprocessor to use the locations of the front and rear wheels and of the bicycle model to compute corresponding vehicle extent locations for the design vehicle. Block further directs the microprocessor to write coordinate values of locations of the front and rear wheels and along the second transition portion and the departure portion and coordinate values of the corresponding vehicle extents of the design vehicle to the store of the variable memory . The process then ends at .

In other embodiments the first and or second transition portions of the turning path may be omitted thus representing the turning path using only the approach portion the circular arc turning portion specified by the operator input radius R and the departure portion .

A flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit to implement a process for generating the outer edge of the intersection bock of is shown at in .

The process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to read the value of the offset Dfrom the store of the variable memory . Block then directs the microprocessor to read coordinates of a first vehicle extent location of the vehicle extent locations from the store .

Block then directs the microprocessor to offset the vehicle extent location to generate a location on the outer edge of the intersection area . In one embodiment offsetting the vehicle extent locations involves constructing a line joining locations of a previous vehicle extent location and a next vehicle extent location to define a tangent line to the current vehicle extent location. The offset Dis then applied to the current vehicle extent location in a direction perpendicular to the tangent line.

Block then directs the microprocessor to determine whether the current vehicle extent location is the last vehicle extent location in which case the process ends at . If at block the current vehicle extent location is not the last vehicle extent location then the process continues at block which directs the microprocessor to read coordinates of the next vehicle extent location from the store .

In an alternative embodiment the offset Dmay not be a fixed offset distance but may vary along the vehicle extent locations such that some vehicle extent locations are offset by a greater distance than other vehicle extent locations to generate the outer edges of the intersection.

In another embodiment generating outer edges of the intersection may involve generating geometric elements as described later in connection with and .

In another alternative embodiment of the process the CAD system shown in may provide an offset function for offsetting a curve by a fixed distance and such a function may be invoked to offset the vehicle extent locations to generate the outer edges of the intersection.

Referring back to block directs the microprocessor to generate display signals for causing the display to display an image such as the image of the traffic intersection shown in . Referring again to in one embodiment the reference line includes first and second movable endpoints and which allow the operator to use the pointing device to select and drag one of endpoints to a new location thereby changing the relative orientation between the first and second reference lines. Similarly the reference line may also include moveable endpoints not shown allowing changes in orientation of the second roadway and or a change in a location of the intersection area between the first roadway and the second roadway.

When one of the endpoints or is moved to another location the process of is repeated thereby generating display signals for causing the computer display to update the image representing the traffic intersection in response to the change. Other changes such as changes to the operator input parameters stored in the store of the variable memory or a change in selection of the design vehicle will generally also require that the process be repeated. Accordingly at each change the microprocessor is directed to regenerate the turning path of the design vehicle regenerate the vehicle extent locations and regenerate the outer edges of the intersection area as described above with reference to and .

Advantageously using the bicycle model to simplify computation facilitates rapid repetition of the process to facilitate updating of the displayed image in real time as the operator moves the endpoints or or changes any other design parameter.

In one embodiment the first roadway shown in may comprise a circulatory lane of a traffic roundabout in which case the second roadway acts as an approach to the traffic roundabout. Referring to an exemplary traffic roundabout is shown generally at . The roundabout includes a central island surrounded by a circulatory lane having an outer perimeter . The circulatory lane extends between the central island and the outer perimeter .

In general a process for displaying a representation of a circulatory lane of a roundabout involves receiving an operator selection of a design vehicle for designing the intersection roundabout . The process also involves receiving operator input of a design element dimension for the roundabout. The operator may select the design element as the central island and will then pre define the diameter of the central island. The diameter of the outer perimeter of the circulatory lane is then be computed by the processor circuit . Alternatively the operator may select the design element as the outer perimeter of the circulatory lane and will then pre define the diameter of the outer perimeter. The diameter of the central island is then computed by the processor circuit .

The process further involves generating a circulatory path of the design vehicle traveling within the design dimension along the circulatory lane and generating vehicle extent locations and associated with passage of the design vehicle along the circulatory path . In the embodiment shown the circulatory path is a circulatory path centerline along which the design vehicle travels i.e. the center of the front axel through the roundabout .

The vehicle extent locations are then used to compute a circulatory lane width W. For example if the operator inputs the central island diameter as the design dimension then the vehicle extent locations is used to define a diameter of the outer perimeter of the roundabout . Alternatively if the operator inputs the outer perimeter diameters as the design dimension then the vehicle extent is used to define a diameter of the central island . The process also involves generating display signals for causing the display of the computer to display an image such as the image representing the roundabout.

In one embodiment input of the design dimension for the roundabout may involve receiving CAD data representing an initial layout of the roundabout including the central island and an outer perimeter . The CAD data may be input by the using CAD functions provided by the CAD system shown in . The process outlined above may then be executed to cause a selected one of the central island or the outer perimeter to be modified to accommodate the selected design vehicle extents and .

In the embodiment shown in the roundabout has a circular shape and the central island and the outer perimeter is defined by a diameter of the central island or the outer perimeter. In other embodiments the roundabout may be non circular and the design dimension may include a plurality of dimensions defining the shape of the non circular roundabout.

Referring to the roundabout will generally include one or more approach lanes such as the approach lanes and shown. In general a roundabout will include at least one approach lane and usually two or more approach lanes. A process for adding approach lanes and to the roundabout is described later herein. While the approach lanes and shown in are generally orthogonally located with respect to each other in general approaches to a roundabout may be disposed at angles other than right angles. The approach lanes and of the roundabout each include an entry lane and an exit lane but in other embodiments an approach lanes may be an entry only lane or exit only lane depending on the desired traffic flow through the roundabout.

In general when designing a new traffic roundabout the operator first invokes the CAD system program codes in which causes the CAD system application to be launched. Once launched the CAD system facilitates launching of the program codes that configure the CAD system to perform traffic intersection representation functions. In particular when designing a roundabout a roundabout operator interface is displayed on the display . Referring to a screenshot of the operator interface for receiving operator input of traffic roundabout design parameters is shown generally at .

The operator interface includes a field for receiving selection of a set of design guidelines for the roundabout and an actuator button for launching an operator interface for managing the design guidelines. A screenshot of a design guideline operator interface displayed in response to actuation of the button is shown generally at . Referring to the design guideline interface includes a plurality of design categories as described in greater detail below.

When the operator selects the Vehicles category from the design categories a design vehicle assignment listing is displayed in the design guideline interface . The vehicle assignment listing permits selection of one of a plurality of different design vehicles for generating various features of the intersection by selecting one of a plurality of checkboxes . In this embodiment a design vehicle Bus is selected as the design vehicle for outer edges the circulatory island and the splitter island. A design vehicle WB 50 is selected for generating the truck apron feature and a vehicle P is selected for calculating the fastest speed through the roundabout as will be described later herein. The design vehicle selections made by the operator are stored in the store of the variable memory shown in .

The design vehicles and and the design vehicle parameters have been described above in connection with and respectively.

Referring now to the design guideline interface is shown with the Central Island design category selected which causes display of a representation of a portion of a circulatory lane for defining default offset distances. In general the offset distances provide a clearance allowance for the selected design vehicle travelling along the circulatory lane . The circulatory lane is bounded by the outer perimeter and central island or a truck apron if present . The representation includes a field for inputting a value for an offset Sfrom the outer perimeter and a field for inputting a value of an offset Sfrom the central island . The offset values in the fields and are stored in the store of the variable memory .

Referring to the design guideline interface is shown with the Legs design category selected which causes display of a representation of a portion of approach lanes and for defining default offset distances. The representation includes fields and for inputting offset values Sand Sfor the entry lane and fields and for inputting offset values Sand Sfor the exit lane . The offset values in the S Sare stored in the store of the variable memory .

Referring to the design guideline interface is shown with the Splitters design category selected which causes display of a representation of a portion of the approach lanes and and a portion of the circulatory lane for defining default offset distances from a splitter island . The representation includes a field for inputting an offset value Sbetween the splitter island and the entry lane and a field for inputting an offset value Sbetween the splitter island and the exit lane . The representation also displays a field for inputting an offset value Sbetween the splitter island and the circulatory lane . The offset values in the fields are stored in the store of the variable memory .

Referring back to the roundabout operator interface also includes an inscribed diameter field for receiving operator input of a diameter of the outer perimeter Dand a central island diameter field for receiving operator input of a central island diameter D. The operator interface also includes a pair of radio button fields for selecting which of the values Dand Din the fields and to use as the design element dimension for the traffic roundabout at block . When the operator selects one of the radio buttons and enters a value in the associated field the value is stored in the design diameter store of the variable memory .

In one embodiment the design dimension value entered by the operator may be compared with the steering lock angle shown at in of the selected design vehicle to determine whether the entered design dimension is meets a turning circle criterion of the design vehicle. The processor circuit may be configured to cause a warning signal to warn the operator that the design dimension does not meet the turning circle criterion. The warning signal may cause an audible alert and or an operator interface to be displayed for warning the operator. The turning circle criterion may be a radius computed using Eqn 4 where the n term is replaced with the steering lock angle .

Referring to a flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit display a representation of the roundabout shown in in accordance with a first operational embodiment of the invention is shown generally at . In this first process embodiment the representation of the traffic roundabout is generated in response to receiving operator input of a design diameter of the outer perimeter of the roundabout when the operator selects the radio button corresponding to Das described above.

The process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to read the design diameter Dfrom the store and to invoke a CAD function for displaying the outer perimeter of the roundabout. Referring to the traffic roundabout shown in is shown in greater detail. The outer perimeter is shown at . In general the elements making up the roundabout are defined by coordinates in an x y Cartesian coordinate system .

Block then directs the microprocessor to read the design vehicle selection from the store of the variable memory to read the offset distance value Sfrom the store and to read the track width Tof the front wheels of the design vehicle from the design vehicle database .

Block also directs the microprocessor to generate a circulatory path centerline. The circulatory path centerline is shown at and is spaced inwardly from the outer perimeter . The circulatory path centerline diameter is computed in accordance with the formula 2 Eqn 5 where 

Block then directs the microprocessor to locate a steerable front wheel of a bicycle model of the selected design vehicle on the circulatory path centerline .

In this embodiment it is assumed that the bicycle model and the design vehicle obey Ackerman s steering principle in which case the wheels are always oriented perpendicular to a radial line drawn from a turning circle center . While the Ackerman steering principle ignores some dynamic and compliant effects using this principle and the bicycle model provide for computational efficiency thus facilitating real time recalculation of the intersection geometry in response to operator input. Accordingly the front wheel is located perpendicular to a radial line which has a diameter of D and the steering angle of the bicycle model front wheel is given by the formula 

Block then directs the microprocessor to read a wheelbase value WB from the design vehicle database and to determine a rear wheel location for the bicycle model . The location of the rear wheel is determined by generating a line of length WB extending outwardly from a center location of the front wheel in a direction defined by the steering angle . The rear wheel is oriented at an angle corresponding to the angle and is thus aligned with the WB line.

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to use the locations of the front and rear wheels and to generate vehicle extent locations for the design vehicle as described earlier in reference to . The selected design vehicle i.e. the design vehicle shown at includes a front right hand side wheel a front left hand side wheel and right and left hand side rear wheels and respectively. Each of the wheels of the design vehicle is perpendicular to a respective radial line extending outwardly from the turning circle center . For example the front wheel is perpendicular to the radial line and the front left wheel is perpendicular to the radial line .

An outer edge of the rear left wheel defines an inner vehicle extent which lies on a circle having a diameter D. In this embodiment other design vehicle features such as fenders and bumpers for example are assumed to clear a curb of the central island and thus the rear left wheel defines the vehicle extents . In other embodiments the design vehicle may have other features that define the vehicle extents such as a particularly wide load or a portion of the vehicle body that protrudes beyond the wheels at a height that would engage the curb of the central island. Similarly should the central island have a curb height that exceeds a standard curb height other vehicle extents may need to be taken into account when determining the vehicle extents.

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to read the value of Sfrom the store and to compute the diameter Dof the central island and the circulatory lane width W 2 Eqn 7 Eqn 8

The process has been described for a case where the operator has selected the outer perimeter as defining the design diameter.

Referring to a flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit display a representation of the roundabout in accordance with a second operational embodiment of the invention is shown generally at . In this second process embodiment the representation of the traffic roundabout is generated in response to receiving operator input of a design diameter of the central island of the roundabout when the operator selects the radio button corresponding to Das described above.

The process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to read the design diameter Dfrom the store and to invoke a CAD function for displaying the central island of the roundabout .

Block then directs the microprocessor to read the design vehicle selection from the store of the variable memory to read the offset distance value Sfrom the store and to read the track width Tof the rear wheels of the design vehicle from the design vehicle database . Block also directs the microprocessor to generate a circulatory path centerline. The circulatory path centerline is shown at and is spaced outwardly from the central island . The circulatory path centerline diameter is computed in accordance with the formula 2 Eqn 9 where 

Block then directs the microprocessor to locate the rear wheel of the bicycle model on the circulatory path centerline . The rear wheel is located perpendicular to a radial line which has a diameter of D .

Block then directs the microprocessor to read a wheelbase value WB from the design vehicle database and to determine a front wheel location for the bicycle model . The location of the front wheel is determined by generating a line of length WB extending outwardly from a center location of the rear wheel in a direction aligned with the rear wheel. The front wheel angle is defined by the steering angle given by the formula 

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to use the locations of the front and rear wheels and to generate vehicle extent locations and for the design vehicle. An outer edge of the front right wheel defines an outer vehicle extent which lies on a circle having a diameter D

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to read the value of Sfrom the store and to compute the diameter Dof the central island 2 Eqn 9

In some embodiments the traffic roundabout may further include a truck apron. Referring to the roundabout is shown having a central island having a raised central portion surrounded by a truck apron . The truck apron is a mountable portion of the central island that facilitates use of the roundabout by large vehicles such as the articulated vehicle . The truck apron is generally delineated from the circulatory lane by different paving material e.g. paving bricks and or by a height differential that is less than a curb height of the raised portion of the central island . For example the truck apron may be raised by about 50 mm with respect to the circulatory lane while the central island may have a curb height of 150 mm. Smaller vehicles such as the vehicle shown in are able to use the circulatory lane without mounting the truck apron .

In one embodiment the width Wof the truck apron may be input by the operator in which case the width Wof the circulatory lane and the diameter of the central island is computed in accordance with the process shown in . The truck apron width Wis then used to determine a location of the raised central portion . In such an embodiment the operator decides on the width Wof the traffic apron and the design vehicle will have to be manually verified to pass through the roundabout by the operator.

In other embodiments the width Wof the truck apron may be determined using the design vehicle to compute a modified circulatory path generally in accordance with the process shown in . At block the microprocessor is directed to read the operator selection of the design vehicle for the truck apron as described above in connection with . In this case the selected design vehicle for the truck apron is the articulated vehicle . The process continues generally as shown in using the track width and wheelbase dimensions defining the design vehicle to generate the circulatory path centerline diameter and generate a bicycle model. Block then directs the microprocessor to generate vehicle extent locations which are offset by the distance Sto compute the combined width of the circulatory lane Wand the truck apron W. The truck apron width Wis then computed by subtracting previously determined Wfrom the overall width W W .

Referring to a flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit to add an approach lane to the roundabout is shown generally at . The process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to receive operator input of a reference line defining an orientation of the approach to the roundabout. Referring to the reference line is shown at and defines a centerline for an approach lane . In this embodiment the reference line is a straight line but in other embodiments may be curved. In the embodiment shown in the approach lane includes an entry lane and an exit lane .

Block directs the microprocessor to read the offsets Sand Sfrom the store and to read the track dimension Tof the front axle of the design vehicle from the design vehicle database . Block also directs the microprocessor to generate a first approach portion for the design vehicle. The first approach portion is spaced outwardly from the reference line by a distance given by the formula Eqn 10 where 

Block then directs the microprocessor to read Sfrom the store and to compute a width Wof the entry lane . The width Wis given by Eqn 11 where Sis the outer offset distance. The width Wdefines a location for an outer edge of the entry lane .

The process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to receive operator input of an approach radius R. The approach radius Ris shown at in and defines the curved second portion of the approach path which extends from the first portion and is joins the circulatory path centerline at a tangent point.

Block then directs the microprocessor to generate vehicle extent locations along the first and second approach path portions and . The vehicle extents are generated by moving a bicycle model of the design vehicle along the approach path and generating vehicle extent locations as described above in connection with . Referring to the bicycle model is moved along the approach path by successive increments of D read from the store of the variable memory . At each successive increment a steering angle is incremented by where is an angle between the current steering angle of the front wheel of the bicycle model and a line drawn tangent to the approach path . The front wheel of the bicycle model is then moved to the next location located the distance D along the approach path. At each successive location the vehicle extents may be generated for the front right hand side wheel of the design vehicle extents in and for the rear left hand side wheel of the design vehicle extents in .

Referring back to the process then continues at block which directs the microprocessor to read the offset Sand to generate the outer edge of the roundabout offset from the vehicle extent locations by the offset S.

The process may also be used to generate outer edges of the exit lane and to generate the approach lanes and shown in .

The embodiment shown in also includes a splitter island envelope which separates the entry lane and the exit lane proximate the circulatory lane . A splitter island may be marked out within the splitter island envelope using painted lane markings or may be constructed using a raised portion and surrounding curb. The splitter island envelope thus represents an enclosed area within which the splitter island may be constructed without encroaching on the path of the design vehicle.

The shape and extent of the splitter island envelope is defined as an area enclosed by the vehicle extent locations defined by the approach path of the design vehicle the vehicle extent locations defined by the circulator path of the design vehicle and vehicle extent locations defined by passage of the design vehicle along the exit lane . The splitter island envelope may be spaced apart from the vehicle extents by offsets S S and S as shown in read from the store of the variable memory which provide a clearance allowance for the design vehicle to maneuver through the traffic roundabout .

While the respective diameters of outer perimeter and the central island of the roundabout are sized in accordance with the larger design vehicle of concern when designing a roundabout is the speed of a smaller passenger vehicle i.e. the passenger vehicle shown in . Referring to the passenger vehicle has additional room to manoeuvre through the roundabout and thus may be able to travel along a path that has insufficient deviation to cause the vehicle to slow down to a safe speed for passage through the roundabout. The path is commonly referred to as the fastest path.

Referring to a flowchart depicting blocks of code for directing the processor circuit to generate the fastest path is shown generally at . The process begins at block which directs the microprocessor to receive operator input of offsets P P and P. The offsets P P and Prespectively define distances for offsetting the arcs defining the outer edge of approach the central island and the outer edge of the approach respectively.

Block then directs the microprocessor to generate an arc portion that is tangent to each of the three arcs. The curve portion has a radius R.

Block directs the microprocessor to generate an arc portion that is tangent to the arc at the tangent point Pand to a generally linear portion of the path . The arc portion has a radius R. Block also directs the microprocessor to generate an arc portion that is tangent to the arc at the tangent point Pand to a generally linear portion of the path . The arc portion has a radius R.

Block then directs the microprocessor to compute speeds at points along the fastest path corresponding to the radii R R and Rin accordance with the formula 

Eqn 12 may be used to compute the speed V along each of the arc portions R R and Rby substituting the respective values for R in Eqn 12. Block then directs the microprocessor to generate a table of the speeds through the roundabout and display the table on the display .

Alternatively the path may be generated using spline functions to represent the path. The CAD system shown in may provide spline functions that permit construction of a spline curve through the offset points P P and P.

Referring to a traffic roundabout representation is shown generally at . The intersection representation includes outer edges and which have been generated in accordance with the processes as described above.

The traffic roundabout further includes a plurality of geometric elements for constructing the outer edges . For example a plurality of geometric elements and correspond to the outer edge . In the embodiment shown the outer edge is approximated by line geometric elements and and an intervening arc geometric element . Each of the geometric elements has a corresponding identifier and respectively for identifying the geometric element.

The traffic roundabout representation also includes a curve table and a line table . The curve table has an entry which lists a plurality of values defining the geometric element including a radius a length start and end coordinates a delta value and a tangent value. The delta value is the angle between approach and approach which generally corresponds to the angle between the line elements and . The values listed at may be used by a surveyor or construction crew to determine actual construction locations for the geometric element . The line table also includes entries and for the geometric elements and respectively including values for length start and end coordinates and direction. Similarly the outer edges are also each subdivided into a plurality of segments and a best fit line or curve is approximated for each segment.

In one embodiment an operator interface may be provided for entering an encroachment tolerance dimension. The encroachment tolerance dimension is a limit on an extent of encroachment of the geometric elements onto the circulatory and approach lanes.

Referring to in one embodiment the arc element may be further subdivided into a three centered compound curve to provide a better agreement with the outer edge . The three centered curve comprises a first portion having a center located at and a radius R. The equal radii Rare extended rearward to define centers and . A radius Rextending from the center defines a second arc portion and the radius Rextending from the center defines a third arc portion . The three centered curve is well known in geometric design and facilitates generation of geometric elements that better represent the intended roundabout layout.

Similarly geometric elements may be generated for the intersection shown in and in accordance with the same process. In one alternative embodiment outer edges may be generated and then adjusted to produce geometric elements as shown in . In another alternative embodiment the vehicle extents may be used to generate geometric elements that are offset by a minimum offset distance from the vehicle extent locations.

Advantageously the use of geometric elements for constructing the traffic roundabout permits the construction crew to work with simple geometric shapes rather than possibly more complex shapes of the outer edges determined in accordance with the above processes.

In some embodiments the intersection shown in or the roundabout shown in may include more than one side by side lane for conveying traffic in the same direction. In general the processes described above may be extended to represent multiple lane intersections. Referring to a multiple lane roundabout representation is shown generally at . A roundabout includes a first circulatory path and a second adjacent circulatory path . Generating the representation of the roundabout involves first generating the first circulatory path as described above in the process shown in and then generating the second circulatory path adjacent to the first circulatory path. The first and second circulatory paths and may be separated by an offset to provide a clearance allowance or may even be permitted to encroach on each other by a pre defined amount should is be decided that two design vehicles would not be permitted pass simultaneously through the circulatory path.

Advantageously in the embodiments described herein the generation of the intersection representations is performed with sufficient computational efficiency to provide near real time changes to the layout of the intersection when running on standard performance hardware. Permitting near real time changes to be made in response to operator input facilitates more efficient and interactive design of intersections since changes are responded to by regenerating the representation so that their effect can be immediately seen. This near real time performance reduces the need for an iterative design process when designing intersections.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated such embodiments should be considered illustrative of the invention only and not as limiting the invention as construed in accordance with the accompanying claims.

