---

title: “Implant and forget” mechanism to interact with biota, in particular fauna that may outgrow available habitat and method of use thereof
abstract: An “implant and forget” device for interacting with biota after a pre-established time period. Preferably, the biota are fauna and more particularly fish. In select embodiments, the device comprises packaging enclosing an apparatus for timing interaction via opening the packaging. In select embodiments of the present invention, the device is a sealed capsule inserted in fish. Embodiments of the present invention are implanted in triploid grass carp () to facilitate control of aquatic weeds in bodies of water. When the carp have been in the water for a pre-established approximate period of time, toxins in the device are dispensed via long term bioerosion of the sealed opening in the packaging. Otherwise, the carp may destroy all vegetation and harm the aquatic environment for other aquatic life. Several alternative bioerodible seal configurations are provided as embodiments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08156897&OS=08156897&RS=08156897
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08156897
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080107
---
Under 35 U.S.C 120 and 121 this application claims the benefit of U.S. Pat. No. 7 156 049 Release Mechanism To Interact with Biota in Particular Fauna that May Outgrow Available Habitat to Evans et al. 2 Jan. 2007 and is a division of application Ser. No. 11 179 541 filed on Jul. 13 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 350 497 B2 System And Method For Controlling Growth Of Aquatic Plants Utilizing Bio Eroding Means Implanted In Triploid Grass Carp to Evans et al. issued Apr. 1 2008 as a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 943 646 filed on Sep. 10 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 156 049 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to the entire right title and interest therein of any patent granted thereon by the United States. This patent and related ones are available for licensing. Contact Bea Shahin at 217 373 7234 or Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

Triploid grass carp are sterile fish used to control nuisance aquatic vegetation. This species provides long term aquatic plant control e.g. nominally five to seven and a maximum possible of ten years at less cost than either herbicides or mechanical harvesting. One limitation on their use is establishing an optimum stocking level i.e. too few and the aquatic vegetation is not affected and too many and it is totally eliminated. A second limitation is associated with the latter in that they have a propensity to leave stocking sites thus impacting desirable vegetation in other locations.

Recently scientists achieved stocking densities in small impoundments that allowed a targeted level of aquatic plant control. However achieving desired levels of control in large reservoir systems has been inconsistent. Nevertheless techniques to age and collect triploid grass carp in large reservoir systems were developed. These techniques allowed scientists to project population trends. The ability to stock and predict subsequent populations of triploid grass carp facilitates achieving optimal populations.

Any carp that migrate may impact native aquatic vegetation in floodplain lakes and in estuaries. In these areas in particular aquatic plants are needed to keep the natural balance of the environment. Aquatic plants are the primary source of oxygen production in many standing waters as well as providing a protective haven for small fish. In estuaries these carp may consume native aquatic vegetation required for controlling erosion or needed as nursery habitat for economically important fisheries.

Given the need to optimize population density at stocking sites and to limit potentially damaging effects outside the stocking sites one control mechanism is ability to limit the life span of these carp. For example larger fish require more food thus as they get larger fewer are needed to maintain the same control of undesirable vegetation. This capability allows resource managers to precisely control population mix and achieve consistency in aquatic plant control in large reservoir systems. Further this capability limits the time that escaped migrating carp roam freely. Hence implementing life span control via a passive plant and forget method using bioerodible materials for timing delivery of toxins in implants permits introducing triploid grass carp as a suitable management tool for controlling undesirable aquatic vegetation in large impoundments. The term bioerodible includes self destruction of an implant by dissolution biodegradation or both.

Select embodiments of the present invention envision an apparatus and method for delivering a payload to living biota after passage of a pre established substantially extended time period. In general an embodiment of the present invention includes biocompatible packaging enclosing one or more payloads and means for timing delivery of the payload and facilitating opening of the packaging to deliver a payload. In select embodiments of the present invention the apparatus is implanted in fauna specifically fish in an implant and forget capsule prior to their release into a body of water. The payload may be a lethal dose of one or more toxins. In select embodiments of the present invention flora may have either a fertilizer or a systemic toxin inserted to either promote growth or to kill parasites such as thrips after an extended passage of time.

Embodiments of the present invention are implanted in sterile triploid grass carp that are used to control aquatic weeds. When the carp have been in the water for a pre specified extended period ostensibly long enough to effectively control the target aquatic plants the apparatus dispenses one or more toxins to kill them. Otherwise the carp may destroy all vegetation and harm the aquatic environment for other aquatic life.

In select embodiments of the present invention the packaging is a multi part capsule of inert biocompatible material. The payload is sealed in the capsule prior to use. The capsule is suitable for retention within living biota in particular fish. In select embodiments of the present invention the apparatus is completely passive i.e. a portion of the capsule bioerodes after passage of a pre established substantially extended time period to open the capsule to deposit its payload. The substantially extended time period may be from six months to several years depending on user requirements. On average the substantially extended time period may be pre specified up to three years although the maximum time may be near the average life expectancy for the particular species of biota.

Select embodiments of the present invention envision a system for controlling growth of aquatic plants in a body of water. Select embodiments of the present invention comprise one or more triploid grass carp and means for pre establishing the approximate life span of the carp. In select embodiments of the present invention the means for pre establishing comprise biocompatible inert packaging enclosing a lethal dose of one or more toxins and means for timing delivery of the toxins via bioeroding one or more incorporated bioeroding configurations such as seals or plugs thus opening the packaging to release the toxin into the bloodstream of the carp. The means for pre establishing the approximate lifespan is implanted in the carp prior to introduction of the carp into a body of water.

In select embodiments of the present invention the payload of the means for pre establishing the approximate lifespan is one or more toxins. Toxin is encapsulated in one or more multi part capsules that are sealed prior to use to yield an initially leak proof package suitable for retention by living biota. In select embodiments of the present invention bioerodible configurations incorporated in the means for pre establishing the approximate lifespan are selected from the group consisting of bioerodible plugs bioerodible tape and combinations thereof. In select embodiments of the present invention a bioerodible plug may be fitted in one end of a capsule a bioerodible plug may join two halves of a capsule bioerodible tape may be wrapped around the overlapping area of two friction fit conjoined sections of a capsule bioerodible tape may seal a cap on one end of a capsule and combinations thereof may be employed.

In select embodiments of the present invention the means for timing in the means for pre specifying the approximate lifespan comprises bioerodible material pre specified as to the approximate time period over which the material substantially bioerodes. This bioerodible material such as a bioerodible polymer preferably has the following properties reliable erosion rates non mutagenic nonantigenic non toxic and biocompatible. This material must be consistent with the manufacturing process and not interact with the toxin or other agent utilized in this delivery device.

Candidate bioerodible polymers may be synthesized from monomers comprising esters anhydrides ortho esters and amides. Examples of biodegradable polymers are Poly glycolide Poly L actide Poly lactide co glycolide Poly caprolactone Poly diaxanone Poly glyconate Poly Ortho Esters Copolymers of glycolic lactic and other hydroxy acids block copolymers prepared from polyethylene glycols and certain Poly Ortho Esters and random copolymers of these polymers.

Plugs may be cut from self reinforced polyglycolide SR PGA rods coated with slowly absorbable polymers. To reduce the degradation rate the rods may be coated with n butyl 2 cyanoacrylate Poly dioxanone PDS Poly beta hydroxybutyrate PHBA or Poly L lactide PLLA .

In select embodiments of the present invention a method for delivering one or more payloads to living biota during an approximated pre specified time period comprises 

In select embodiments of the present invention a method for controlling growth of aquatic plants in a body of water comprises 

Select embodiments of the present invention provide a device for terminating biota on a pre specified approximate schedule in particular fauna and more particularly fish. An embodiment of the present invention is adapted to be incorporated into biota and comprises a container enclosing a toxin. The container may be a capsule such as a flexible plastic capsule incorporating at least some bioerodible material. An embodiment of the present invention comprises means proximate the payload for releasing the payload after an approximate pre specified substantially extended time period e.g. after one or two years releasing one or more toxins into vital areas of biota such as blood vessels of fish.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a method for terminating biota in particular fauna after a pre established substantially extended period. One embodiment of the method of the present invention comprises emplacing a toxin containing capsule within the fauna. The container automatically releases the toxin after a pre established substantially extended time period when a bioerodible portion of the container substantially erodes i.e. degrades or dissolves sufficiently to release the toxin. For example a method of the present invention involves surgically inserting a toxin containing capsule into a fish such as a triploid grass carp having pre established a bioerodible plug in the capsule to rupture via bioerosion i.e. biodegradation dissolution or both after a pre specified substantially extended time period. Upon opening the capsule introduces one or more toxins into the bloodstream of the fish. In any embodiment of the present invention the size of the capsule and its payload type and amount depend upon the application being addressed.

Refer to showing a side view and cross section through of respectively of an example empty capsule that may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. The capsule comprises two parts of thin material such as plastic the two parts joined by one part fitting into the other in an overlapping area after being impressed upon a bioerodible plug . The sealed capsule is adapted to be placed within an appropriate location in biota e.g. the body tissue of a fish.

Refer to . The filled capsule contains a payload such as a lethal dose of a suitable toxin and means allowing for automatically opening the capsule after a pre established duration to release the payload . In select embodiments of the present invention the means for automatically opening the capsule comprise the central bioerodible plug . Note that the bioerodible plug may not be exposed to external surfaces due to the seal effected by the overlapping area and thus may not be dependent on an external environment to bio erode. 

Refer to depicting a side view and cross section through of respectively of an example empty capsule that may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. This capsule comprises a one piece flexible container that is plugged at its open end by a bioerodible plug that may be similar to that plug used in the embodiment of .

Refer to . The filled capsule contains a payload such as a lethal dose of a suitable toxin and means allowing for automatically opening the capsule after a pre established duration to release the payload . In select embodiments of the present invention the means for automatically opening the capsule comprise the bioerodible end plug inserted in the open end of the capsule . Note that one end of the bioerodible plug is exposed to the external environment in which it is placed. Thus the time for this end plug to erode may be at least partially dependent on the surrounding environment e.g. the tissue of a fish.

Refer to depicting a side view and cross section through of respectively of an example empty capsule that may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. This capsule comprises a two piece flexible container that is taped on its outside with bioerodible tape at its center overlapping closure that may bioerode in a manner similar to the bioerodible end plug of . Note that the bioerodible tape is exposed only to the external environment in which it is placed and not to the contents of the capsule . Thus the time for this bioerodible tape to erode may be wholly dependent on the surrounding environment e.g. the tissue of a fish.

Refer to depicting a side view and cross section through of respectively of an example empty capsule that may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. This capsule comprises a two piece flexible container having a fitted end cap that is taped on the outside of the opening end with bioerodible tape that may bioerode in a manner similar to the bioerodible end plug of . Note that the bioerodible tape is exposed only to the external environment in which it is placed. Thus the time for this bioerodible tape to erode may be wholly dependent on the surrounding environment e.g. the tissue of a fish.

Refer to showing a side view and cross section through of respectively of an example empty capsule similar to the capsule of that may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. The capsule comprises two parts of thin material such as plastic the two parts joined by one part fitting into the other in an overlapping area after being impressed upon a central bioerodible plug . In select embodiments of the present invention added to each end of the central plug is a coating suitable for bioreacting with the central plug completely eroding the central plug over a pre established time period at which time the contents of the capsule are exposed by separation of the halves of the capsule . The sealed capsule is adapted to be placed within an appropriate location in biota e.g. the body tissue of a fish. Note that the central plug and coating may not be exposed to external surfaces due to the seal effected by the overlapping area and thus may not depend on an external environment to bio erode. Thus the rate at which the central plug bioerodes may be controlled to a certainty established by prior testing of the bioreactant coating placed thereon.

Refer to showing a side view and cross section through of respectively of an example empty capsule similar to the capsule of that may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. The capsule comprises thin material such as plastic the open end sealed by a bioerodible end plug that has a bioreactant coating placed upon the end surface of the end plug that is exposed to the inside of the capsule . The coating is suitable for bioreacting with the end plug completely eroding it over a pre established time period at which time the contents of the capsule are exposed. The sealed capsule is adapted to be placed within an appropriate location in biota e.g. the body tissue of a fish. Note that one end of the end plug and coating may not be exposed to external surfaces due to the seal effected by the end plug itself and thus may not depend fully on an external environment to bio erode. This is the case if the end plug is constructed to be impervious to the environment in which it is placed. Thus in select embodiments of the present invention the rate at which the end plug bioerodes may be controlled to a certainty established by prior testing of the bioreactant coating placed thereon. The coating may be selected from the group consisting of suitable bioerodible materials such as previously mentioned candidate polymers.

By selecting an appropriate bioreactant coating the pre established time period may be varied to meet individual user requirements. The same type of selectivity may be obtained by judicious selection of the type and dimensions of bioerodible material employed to fabricate the plugs and the tape .

Refer again to . In select embodiments of the present invention the capsule is a hollow tube constructed of inert material that is biocompatible such as stainless steel. For use with carp a typical configuration is 20 mm 0.8 in in length and 3 mm 0.12 in in diameter. The tube capsule is filled with a toxin such as rotenone. The end of the capsule is plugged with a bioerodible plug preferably a polymer such as poly 1 lactide or poly caprolactone . The filled capsule is injected into a region of the carp that is unlikely to reject the capsule and not likely to be consumed if the carp is caught and eaten.

Appropriate locations for inserting the capsule as well as suitable toxins and lethal doses have been determined via experimentation. Studies have evaluated various locations for inserting the capsule. Considerations included a location where the device is unlikely to be consumed by humans if the fish is captured and eaten. The location with the best retention is along the longitudinal axis. Dose response relations for rotenone and grass carp of differing sizes have been developed and are applied in accordance with user s requirements.

The capsule is configured to release toxin upon substantial bioerosion of the plug releasing toxin such as rotenone into the musculature of the carp. In select embodiments of the present invention the release or dispensing time is determined by the properties of the plug the average body temperature of the carp and the dimensions of the plug .

Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures.

The abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract which will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

