---

title: Server processing in providing messages for a wireless device connecting to a server
abstract: A system and method for providing a message on the graphic display of a wireless device while the wireless device is connecting to an application download server across a wireless network. When the wireless device attempts to communicate with an application download server or changes files while navigating an application download server, a message is transmitted across the wireless network to the computer platform of the wireless device and displayed to the user of the wireless device. The message can be transmitted to the wireless device from the same application download server that the wireless device is attempting to connect to or navigate, or alternately, the message can be transmitted from another server on the wireless network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620275&OS=08620275&RS=08620275
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08620275
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080310
---
The subject application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 349 613 filed on Feb. 7 2006 and entitled Server Processing in Providing Messages for a Wireless Device Connecting to a Server which is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 232 910 filed on Aug. 30 2002 and entitled Server Processing in Providing Messages for a Wireless Device Connecting to a Server now U.S. Pat. No. 6 996 394 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to wireless networks and computer communications across the wireless networks. More particularly the invention relates to the provision of messages for display on a wireless device while the wireless device attempts to connect with an application download server across a wireless network or navigates in between application download servers or file structures therewithin.

Wireless devices such as cellular telephones communicate packets including voice and data over a wireless network. Cellular telephones themselves are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held personal digital assistants PDAs . Some wireless devices such as select cellular telephones may have an installed application programming computer platform that allows software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless device.

It is anticipated that systems and methods will be developed to transfer data to a wireless device. Accordingly it is desirable to have systems and methods by which data such as an advertisement can be transmitted to a wireless device without substantially impacting the connection time of the wireless device to a server transmitting the message.

In one aspect an information download system is provided. The system includes a wireless communications interface for communicating with a wireless device over a wireless network a first processing component and a second processing component. The first processing component is coupled with said wireless communications interface and provides requested information in response to receiving an information download request from said wireless device. The second processing component is coupled to said wireless communications interface and provides a message to said wireless device. The message is unrelated to a status of said information download request and the message is provided after receiving said information download request and before providing said requested information.

In another aspect an information download system is provided. The system includes a wireless communications means for communicating with a wireless device over a wireless network a first processing means and a second processing means. The first processing means is coupled with said wireless communications means and provides requested information in response to receiving an information download request from said wireless device. The second processing means is coupled to said wireless communications means and provides a message to said wireless device. The message is unrelated to a status of said information download request. The message is provided after receiving said information download request and before providing said requested information.

In still another aspect a method for providing information to a wireless device is provided. The method includes receiving over a wireless network a request for a first information from the wireless device. The method further includes retrieving said first information after receiving the request for the first information from the wireless device. Further included in the method is sending over the wireless network to the wireless device a second information. The method further includes sending said retrieved first information to said wireless device after retrieving said first information. Sending the second information is performed after receiving the request for the first information from the wireless device. Sending the second information is performed before sending said retrieved first information to said wireless device.

In yet another aspect a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by the machine causes said machine to perform operations is provided. The instructions include at least one instruction for receiving over a wireless network a request for a first information from the wireless device. The instructions further include at least one instruction for retrieving said first information after receiving the request for the first information from the wireless device. Further included in the instructions is at least one instruction for sending over the wireless network to the wireless device a second information. The instructions further include at least one instruction for sending said retrieved first information to said wireless device after retrieving said first information.

In yet another aspect a method for obtaining requested information over a wireless network is provided. The method includes sending over the wireless network a request for a first information. The method further includes receiving from the wireless network a second information after the sending. Further included in the method is receiving from the wireless network said first information. Said second information is unrelated to a status of said first information.

In still another aspect a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by said machine causes said machine to perform operations is provided. The instructions include at least one instruction for obtaining requested information over a wireless network. The instructions further include at least one instruction for sending over the wireless network a request for a first information. The instructions further include at least one instruction for receiving from the wireless network a second information after the sending. Further included in the instructions is at least one instruction for receiving from the wireless network said first information. Said second information is unrelated to a status of said first information.

In yet another aspect a wireless device is provided. The wireless device includes a wireless communications portal for communicating with a wireless network and a computer platform coupled to said wireless communications portal. The computer platform operates to control said wireless communications portal and includes a processing element and a memory. The memory is for storing a first logic a second logic and a third logic. The first logic is configured to control said wireless communications portal to send an information download request over said wireless network. The second logic is configured to control said wireless communications portal to receive over said wireless network information corresponding to said information download request. The third logic is configured to control said wireless communications portal to receive from said wireless network a message unrelated to a status of said information download request during a time between the sending of said information download request and the receipt of information corresponding to said information download request.

In still another aspect another wireless device is provided. The wireless device includes a wireless communications means for communicating with a wireless network and a computer platform means coupled to said wireless communications means. The computer platform means operates to control said wireless communications means and includes a processing element means. The computer platform means further includes a memory means for storing a first logic means a second logic means and a third logic means. The first logic means is configured to control said wireless communications means to send an information download request over said wireless network. The second logic means is configured to control said wireless communications means to receive over said wireless network information corresponding to said information download request. The third logic means is configured to control said wireless communications means to receive over said wireless network a message unrelated to a status of said information download request during a time between the sending of said information download request and the receipt of information corresponding to said information download request.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for processing a target message for display on a wireless device communicating with an application download server comprises receiving a request from the wireless device at the application download server initiating the processing of the request from the wireless device and sending a target message to the wireless device during idle transmission time while processing the request from the wireless device.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for processing a target message for display on a wireless device communicating with an application download server comprises receiving a request from the wireless device at the application download server initiating the processing of the request from the wireless device sending a signal to a second server indicating that a message may be sent to a wireless device and sending a message to the wireless device by the second server during idle transmission time between the application download server and the wireless device.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent after review of the hereinafter set forth Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

Systems and methods are anticipated that provide for the downloading of software applications to a wireless device. Software applications can come pre loaded at the time a wireless device is manufactured or the user may later request that additional programs be downloaded over cellular telecommunication carrier networks where the programs are executable on the wireless device. As a result users of wireless devices can customize their wireless devices with programs such as games printed media stock updates news or any other type of information or program available for download from application download servers through the wireless network.

In one scenario if the user of the wireless device desires to download and use a software application using a wireless network the user will typically either call a service provider or contact the service provider through other means such as through an Internet access and the service provider will either transmit the application to the wireless device across the wireless network or allow the user access a network site where the application is downloadable or accessible. To connect to the application download server the wireless device bridges a communication connection to the wireless network such as a cellular network and then attempts to contact an application download server where the desired software application is resident. Once the wireless device contacts the application download server an initial contact is made and the application download server determines what applications are available to the wireless device and sends the appropriate information such as a menu for display on the wireless device so the user can learn of the available applications.

The period between the wireless device s initial contact of the application download server and menu option display on the wireless device can be significant lasting several seconds. During the wait period the graphic display of the wireless device displays either nothing at all until the application download server menu is displayable or a simple resident message such as connecting can be shown to the user.

Accordingly the present invention provides systems and methods whereby a message such as an advertisement can be transmitted and or displayed to the user of a wireless device while the wireless device is connecting to an application download server. Further the data comprising the message may be sufficiently compact that the overall connection time is not substantially lengthened.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention provide a message on the display of a wireless device while the wireless device is connecting to an application download server across a wireless network. When the wireless device attempts to communicate with an application download server across the wireless network a targeted message such as an advertisement is transmitted across the wireless network to the computer platform of the wireless device and displayed to the user of the wireless device. The message can be transmitted to the wireless device from the same application download server that the wireless device computer platform is attempting to connect to or navigate or the message can be transmitted to the wireless device from another server on the wireless network. The message can include graphics text multimedia components or hyperlinks all of which are displayable and interactive on the graphic display of the wireless device.

The system particularly includes one or more wireless devices where each wireless device has a computer platform and a graphic display and the graphic display is operated by the resident driver of the computer platform which can be hardware firmware or software. Examples of the wireless device include cellular telephones text pagers personal digital assistants PDAs or other computer platforms with a wireless link to selectively communicate with a wireless network. The system also includes one or more application download servers that are on the wireless network and each application download server is selectively in communication with the one or more wireless devices and selectively downloading data thereto such as software applications graphics and text.

The wireless devices will attempt to connect with a specific application download server when so instructed by the user and there is typically a connect wait period while the application server determines among other things what applications can be provided to the wireless device and what the capabilities of the wireless device are. The wireless device typically gains access to a menu or file structure of the application download server wherein the user of the wireless device can navigate within the data structure of the application download server. Other servers can also be present on the networks that are not specifically for application download such as a messaging only server that transmits messages to wireless devices.

Thus in the present invention when a wireless device attempts to communicate with at least one application download server across the wireless network a message is transmitted to the computer platform of the wireless device across the wireless network for display to the user during the connection wait period. The message is able to utilize an otherwise idle period of the wireless device to provide advertisements and other information to the user prior to providing full access of the application download server. The message should compact such that its transmission time in a data stream and execution time on the wireless device are minimal so as not to cause a delay in the overall application download server access time.

For more targeted messaging as is desirable in advertising each wireless device can be part of a predefined group based upon age location income or other preferences listed by the owner of the wireless device. When a wireless device that is part of a predefined group attempts to communicate with the application download server across the wireless network the application download server will identify the group that the wireless device is part of and a group specific message is transmitted to the computer platform of the wireless device. As with any message defined herein the group specific message can be transmitted to the wireless device from the same application download server that the wireless device attempted to contact or can be transmitted from another server on the network.

Additionally the message can be comprised of several different components sent from several different servers and the components are assembled at the wireless device at the time of display. As an example a graphics component can be sent from the application download server an audio file can be sent from a first server and a hyperlink can be provided from another server. The computer platform of the wireless device will then appropriately assemble the components into a message for display.

Messages can also be transmitted for display at the wireless device beyond the initial attempt to contact the application download server. A second message can be sent upon a wireless device attempting to communicate with a second application download server across the wireless network. And if the wireless device interacts with a file structure on the application download server a message can be transmitted and displayed on the wireless device when the wireless device attempts to change interaction with a file or otherwise navigates within the data structure of the application download server.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates a system for providing subscribed software applications to one or more wireless devices such as cellular telephone in communication across a wireless network with at least one application download server that selectively downloads software applications or other data to the wireless devices across a wireless communication portal or other data access to the wireless network . As shown here the wireless device can be a cellular telephone with a graphics display a personal digital assistant with PDA screen a pager with a graphics display which is shown here as a two way text pager or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and a display and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The system can thus be performed on any form of remote computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers access terminals telephones without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server is shown here on a local server side network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network such as a stored application database that contains software applications that are downloadable to be executable on the wireless devices and . There is also shown a stand alone messaging server and with stored message database that transmits messages to the wireless devices for display thereon as herein described. However messaging server and message database are not necessary as all server side functions can be performed on one server such as application download server . Further any computer server side computer platform can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices and across the wireless network .

The wireless device such as cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform includes among other components a display driver that drives the graphics display and renders images on the graphics display based upon graphics data received at the computer platform . The computer platform also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is typically installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold the software applications not actively used in memory such as the software applications downloaded from the application download server . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as games and stock monitors or simply data such as news and sports related data. The downloaded data can be immediately displayed on the display or stored in the local database when not in use. The software applications can be treated as a regular software application resident on the wireless device and and the user can selectively upload stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution on the API . The user of the wireless device and can also selectively delete a software application from the local database .

In one embodiment the system during the connection attempt transmits a message to the computer platform of the wireless device and such that the message can be displayed on the graphic display and to the user during the connection wait period. Here the message is shown as an automobile advertisement and graphic display also informs the end user that the connection to the application download server is proceeding. The message can include text graphics multimedia or other network objects such as hyperlinks and applets. While the message can include many types of data it is preferred that the message be compact and maximally utilize the wireless device resources for display and execution so the message transmission does not interfere with the overall connection to the application download server . After the wireless device and displays the message during the connection wait period the message is preferably supplanted by a display of an options menu or like access screen so that the user has access to the data structure of the application download server . Typically a file menu is displayed on the wireless device and such that the user can navigate through various file layers on the application download server and selectively choose to download an available application.

The message can be transmitted to the wireless device and from the specific application download server that the wireless device attempted to initially contact. Alternately the message can transmitted to the wireless device and from a messaging server across the wireless network and the messaging server . With a messaging server the overhead in transmitting the message can be shifted away from the application download server which has significant resources devoted in the attempt to bridge a connection with the wireless device and .

Moreover the use of multiple servers on the wireless network allows the wireless device and to receive and display messages comprised of several different components sent from several different servers. The message components can be sent separately and are assembled at the wireless device and at the time of display. As an example a graphics component can be sent from the application download server an executable audio file can be sent from the messaging server and a hyperlink can be provided from another server. The computer platform of the wireless device and will then appropriately integrate and assemble the components into a single message for display execute the message applications or queue the message components or separate messages for sequential display. The software components can be simple data representing text graphics audio files or full applets separately executable on the computer platform of the wireless device and .

The system can also transmit messages at times other than the initial connection attempt from the wireless device and to the application download server such as when the wireless device attempts to connect to a second server as occurs when the user of the wireless device activates a hyperlink within a displayed message. Further the system could also send a message to the wireless device and when the wireless device changes file interaction while navigating the data structure of the application download server typically a file structure such as in Windows UNIX and LINUX . Messages can thus be sent to the wireless device and either in addition to the first message at the initial connection attempt or at a predetermined interaction interval such as server access change or a file interaction change.

The messages can be targeted to the wireless device user based upon many criteria including a specific group that the user or registered owner of the wireless device belongs to the application download server desired to be connected to or the specific file which the user desires to access. The owner of the wireless device can register with a specific group known to the system examples being teenagers golf enthusiasts business owners and the like. When the wireless device and initially attempts to contact the application download server the system can have a specific message targeted to the wireless device as a member of the predefined group. Group membership can be identified automatically in the initial electronic handshake between the wireless device and and the application download server or the system can prompt the end user of the wireless device and from the application download server or a separate server such as messaging server to designate a specific group and then once the end user inputs group identification data the data can be received from the prompting server i.e. at the application download server or messaging server or both . In such embodiment the end user of the wireless device actually can determine the group so the targeted messaging is more likely to be received by a member of its intended group demographic. And other messages can be targeted based upon the subject matter or context of the message triggering event such as the subject matter on a second application download server desired to be accessed or nature of the file on the application download server desired to be navigated.

In operation of the system as is shown in the flowchart of the wireless device such as cellular telephone first attempts to bridge a connection to the wireless network shown by step and once a communication to the wireless network is made the wireless device attempts to connect to the application download server to access downloadable software applications or data therefrom as shown at step . A decision is then made as to whether a message has been received from the system as shown at decision . If a message has not been received at decision then the wireless device simply waits for the full interactive connection to be made with the application download server and displays the application download server interactive screen on the graphic display of the wireless device such as cellular telephone as shown at step . If a message has been sent at decision then the message is displayed on the graphic display of the wireless device as shown at step .

If the message is embodied with a hyperlink the wireless device can make a decision as to whether the user has activated the hyperlink as shown at decision . If the user has activated the hyperlink then the current interaction session is exited and the wireless device redirects its connection attempt at the linked site as shown at step and then the wireless device attempts to contact the linked application download server and returns to step . If the user has not activated a link at decision a decision is then made as to whether the application download server interaction has been achieved by the wireless device as shown at decision . If the interaction has not been achieved then the message is continued displayed on the graphics display of the wireless device as the process returns to step . If the application download server interaction has been achieved at decision an application download server interactive screen is displayed on the graphic display of the wireless device as shown at step or otherwise the state of interactivity with the application download server provided by the specific system is entered.

The flowchart of illustrates the parallel process on the application download server that occurs in response to the connection attempt from the wireless device as shown in . The application download server initially receives the communication attempt from the wireless device such as cellular telephone as shown at step and then a decision is made as to whether the wireless device is able to display a message as shown at decision . The decision can be made based upon data exchanged directly with the wireless device the wireless network or based upon stored data on the capability of the wireless device. If the wireless device cannot display a message at decision then the application download server transmits the data necessary to effect and interconnection between the wireless device and the application download server such that the wireless device can have access to the downloadable applications. If the wireless device is able to display a transmitted message at decision then a decision is made as to whether the wireless device is part of a predefined group or demographic as shown at decision .

If the wireless device is not part of a predefined group at decision then a general message is transmitted to the wireless device such as a general advertisement as shown at step . The transmission of the general message can occur from the application download server or from a messaging server . Otherwise if the wireless device is a part of a predefined group at decision then a group specific message is sent to the wireless device at shown at step from either the application download server or a group specific messaging server . After either the general message at step or the group specific message at step has been sent to the wireless device the application download server transmits the downloadable application interconnection data to the wireless device such that the wireless device can have navigable access to the applications of the application download server .

If the system is embodied to send messages to the wireless device and upon changing file access in navigating the data structure of the application download server then once the full interaction is achieved the application download server determines if the user has changed file access as shown at decision . If the user has not changed file access then the process repeats the decision at while the user is navigating the application download server . If the user has changed file access at decision then a message is transmitted to the wireless device and while the file access changes as shown at step and the application download server again determines if the user has changed file access at decision . The message transmitted at step can be sent from the application download server or from a separate messaging server to the wireless device.

The system thus includes a method for providing a message on the graphic display and of a wireless device and having the steps of attempting to communicate from the wireless device and to the application download server across the wireless network such as would occur if the user activates a hyperlink within a message transmitted at the original connection attempt transmitting a message to the wireless device and across the wireless network where the message for display on the graphic display and of the wireless device and receiving the transmitted message at the computer platform of the wireless device and and displaying the transmitted message on the graphic display and of the wireless device and . And if the wireless device and is part of a predefined group the method further includes identifying the group that the wireless device is part of when the wireless device and attempts to communicate with the application download server across the wireless network transmitting a group specific message to the computer platform of the wireless device receiving the group specific message at the computer platform of the wireless device and and displaying the group specific message on the graphic display and of the wireless device and .

The method can also include sending messages to the wireless device and instead of the initial connection attempt or the message can be secondary to the message transmitted at the initial connection attempt. The method can thus includes attempting to connect from the wireless device and to a second application download server across the wireless network transmitting a second message to the computer platform of the wireless device and across the wireless network receiving the second message at the computer platform of the wireless device and and displaying the second transmitted message on the graphic display and of the wireless device and . And if the wireless device and can navigate the data structure or file structure of the application download server then the method can include interacting from the wireless device and with a file structure on the application download server attempting to change interaction with a file on the application download server transmitting a second message to the computer platform of the wireless device and across the wireless network either from application download server or messaging server receiving the second message at the computer platform of the wireless device and and displaying the second transmitted message on the graphic display and of the wireless device and .

In view of the method being executable on the computer platform of a wireless device and the present invention includes a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a wireless device having a computer platform to perform the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the computer platform of the cellular telephone or other wireless device or can be in a local database such as local database of the cellular telephone . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

The present invention may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the wireless network to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions such as wireless platform the application download server and messaging server . The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the wireless network . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

