---

title: Remote sensor system for monitoring the condition of earthen structure and method of its use
abstract: A system and associated method permit remote monitoring of subsurface structure for purposes of early detection and location of hidden anomalies, e.g., water seepage in levees. Anomalies may be due to sand boils or displacement of underlying soil. Representative systems provide continuous monitoring via two complementary means: parallel pairs of ported (leaky) coaxial cables and a fiber optic cable, each pair of coaxial cables associated with a fiber optic cable. A fiber optic system, with associated light source, processor and display, together with an RF system, provides data to a remote location via telemetry or cellular phone, or both. The fiber optic cable(s) allow monitoring of displacement and vibrations within the structure. The ported coaxial cables, with associated RF source, using the same processor, display and telemetry used with the fiber optic sub-system, provide data for monitoring moisture change correlated to changes in the dielectric constant of surrounding material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07777496&OS=07777496&RS=07777496
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07777496
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080718
---
Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to an undivided interest therein on any patent granted thereon by the United States. This and related patents are available for licensing to qualified licensees. Please contact Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

Dams and levees are built to contain waters and earthen levees are generally constructed using soils extracted nearby and vary in permeability and strength. Failure may be due to seepage piping dislocation and subtle movement due to inadequate design poor maintenance or excessive hydraulic loads.

Levees and dams are built with a factor of safety based on their size expected height and rate of flow flow nets of water through the permeable soils of which they are constructed. The high flow line is a function of the dimensions of the levee and is part of the safety design factor. Detection in movement of the flow line may indicate seepage in the levee or dam. Prior warning of failure is usually unavailable until sand boils major deformation or both are observed. It would be advantageous to identify minor movement measurement of vibrations or both in these structures before catastrophic failure. Several conventional methods are used to detect weakness. The first is to take many soil samples from suspect areas and ascertain sand content. This is expensive labor intensive and marginally effective. Other methods involving visual inspection during both dry and wet weather periods are less than satisfactory. Further these methods do not provide continuous monitoring. Technical methods such as the use of ground penetrating radar are limited by the small size of the sand channel and moisture content within the outer surface being surveyed. Externally applied electromagnetic fields EMF have low resolution inadequate depth of penetration and produce target ambiguities and concomitant difficulty in data interpretation.

Accordingly there is a need for monitoring these structures either continuously or at pre specified intervals to provide real time or near real lime status on structural condition often established by comparing change in both soil saturation levels and soil displacement along the structure.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide remote monitoring of subsurface structure in which an embodiment of the present invention has been installed. Select embodiments of the present invention provide early warning of irregularities or anomalies continually monitoring structural integrity via pairs of ported leaky coaxial cables suitable for handling RF signals and one or more F.O. cables. The ported coaxial cables one transmitter cable and one receiver cable in each pair are used to detect and locate changes in the dielectric constant of material surrounding the cables. For example water seepage into an earthen levee causes a change in moisture content of the soil that is reflected as a change in the dielectric constant of the material between the two ported coaxial cables of a pair. F.O. cables are employed to detect physical characteristics of a different nature than those detected by the ported coaxial cables. Examples include anomalies not necessarily evidenced by moisture intrusion e.g. displacement of soil that may be due to remotely located sand boils erosion or like causes the displacement not associated with a change in the dielectric constant of the material adjacent the ported coaxial cables. Of course both the ported coaxial cables and the F.O. cables are characterized upon initial installation to provide a baseline for taking comparative measurements over a long term.

Thus in select embodiments of the present invention one or more F.O. cables monitor displacement and vibrations and pairs of ported coaxial cables monitor changes in dielectric constant of material surrounding the ported coaxial cables. The combination also provides precise location of moisture changes and soil movement within the structure due to the anomalies. The F.O. cable s allow for continuous measurement of internal vibration and material displacement via Optical Time Domain Reflectometry TDR correlating time to distance and amplitude over time to relative displacement of material while the ported coaxial cables employ metallic TDR to locate areas of change in dielectric constant of the soil.

Select embodiments of the present invention also provide a method of detecting subsurface anomalies in a structure employed to protect property from water ingress e.g. levees dams and the like. For select embodiments of the present invention the method comprises a installing within the structure one or more pains of ported transmitter coaxial cables a first ported cable of each pair for transmitting electromagnetic signals preferably at one or more radio frequencies RF and the second ported coaxial cable in parallel to each ported transmitter coaxial cable for receiving the transmitted signal from its paired transmitter ported coaxial cable c installing one or more F O cables within the structure e.g. in some embodiments of the present invention the F.O. cable is wound about either a ported transmitter coaxial cable or a ported receiver coaxial cable to facilitate installation via known techniques such as directional drilling d illuminating the fiber optical cable preferably with white light and receiving reflected and refracted light with an optical receiver to detect and identify changes in refraction of light that indicate displacement of portions of the structure e transmitting an electromagnetic signal preferably an RF signal along the ported transmitter coaxial cable of sufficient strength to be received by its paired ported receiver coaxial cable such that the signal propagates through the surrounding material in the structure and induces an electromagnetic signal of sufficient strength to be propagated in the paired ported receiver coaxial cable the characteristics of the ported coaxial cables further selected to optimize a pre specified impedance match between at least the ported coaxial cables and surrounding material f receiving the transmitted electromagnetic signal at the paired ported receiver coaxial cable the signal of sufficient strength to propagate along the paired ported receiver coaxial cable to a receiver for processing the received electromagnetic signal with possible assistance of an amplifier incorporated in the paired receiver coaxial cable the paired transmitter coaxial cable or both g processing the received RF and optical signals as data h analyzing and displaying the processed data to determine the location and amplitude of anomalies within the structure and i monitoring the received electromagnetic signal to detect change wherein said monitoring is automated. Further select embodiments of the present invention may provide an automated alarm when an anomaly reaches a pre specified threshold.

In select embodiments of the present invention a system simultaneously employs complementary techniques to detect and locate hidden anomalies in structure. The system comprises an RF sub system comprising one or more pairs of transmitter and receiver ported coaxial cables one or more RF sources directly energizing the transmitter ported coaxial cable s such that each RF source provides at least one analog signal and one or more RF receivers communicating with each receiver ported coaxial cable such that each RF receiver receives the analog signal leaked from ports of the transmitter cable as provided by the receiver cable and an optics sub system comprising one or more fiber optical cables one or more optical transceivers communicating with each fiber optic cable such that the optical transceiver provides a analog optical signal and receives reflections of that analog signal from the fiber optic cable s and a control sub system operating the RF sub system and the optical sub system the control sub system communicating with each of the RF and optical sub systems the control system comprising one or more processors one or more displays communicating with the processor s one or more I O devices communicating with the processor s and the display s and one or more communications devices communicating with one or more of the I O devices.

In select embodiments of the present invention the system incorporates an alarm communicating with the control sub system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the communications apparatus further comprises a telemetry sub system communicating with the control sub system that may include one or more cellular phones.

In select embodiments of the present invention the RF sub system incorporates a TDR system communicating with the control sub system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the RF TDR system communicates with the processor and the TDR system incorporates one or more RF signal generators for providing an analog signal to the ported transmission cable s an RF coupler couples the RF signal generator s to the transmitting ported transmission cable s and couples a synchronization signal to the receiving ported cable. A first algorithm processes the leakage signals on the processor providing results of the processing to a display.

In select embodiments of the present invention optical sub system incorporates an OTDR system communicating with the control sub system. In select embodiments of the present invention the OTDR comprises one or more first amplifiers communicating with the optical source s one or more laser diodes communicating with the first amplifier s one or more phototransistors one or more splitters communicating with the laser diode s the fiber optical cable s and the phototransistor s and one or more second amplifiers communicating with the phototransistor s and the display s for boosting the output of the phototransistor s prior to submission to the display s .

In select embodiments of the present invention each of the processor s and display s are integral to a personal computer incorporating a monitor.

In select embodiments of the present invention the ported cables incorporate slots having an exterior width in the range of about 1.0 cm to about 2.5 cm and an opening angle of about 5 to about 20 said slots being spaced apart on said ported cables about 5 cm to about 30 cm along the length of said ported cables.

In select embodiments of the present invention the F.O. cable comprises an optical fiber a micro bending inducer adjacent the optical fiber and a soft resilient armor covering over the micro bending inducer such that the inducer and the covering facilitate the formation of micro bends in the optical fiber upon impinging by solid media external to the covering.

In select embodiments of the present invention the TDR incorporates one or more RF pulse modulated reflectometers. In select embodiments of the present invention the RF pulse modulated reflectometer s comprise a linear sweep generator for generating an analog signal a circulator communicating with the linear sweep generator for coupling the analog signals from the RF source to the ported transmission cable and coupling the leakage signal from the ported transmission cable to the RF pulse modulated reflectometer via the ported receive cable and the RF receiver a mixer communicating with the circulator for combining the received leakage signal s with a portion of the transmitted analog signal to yield a first output signal a low pass filter communicating with the mixer for passing only the low frequency spectra in the first output signal yielding a second output signal having a frequency spectra in the audio range a high pass audio filter communicating with the low pass filter for passing only the high frequency spectra of the second output signal yielding a third output signal having a frequency spectra in the upper end of the audio range an audio amplifier in operable communication with the high pass audio filter for amplifying the third output signal yielding a fourth output signal and a processor communicating with the audio amplifier for comparing the data on features of the received leakage signal with one or more reference signals and displaying results of the comparison such that employment of the pulse modulated RF reflectometer enables alerting to hidden anomalies in the structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention a single control sub system operates multiple pairs of ported cables and F.O. cables by multiplexing the analog RF signal s and the received leakage signals and by multiplexing the transmitted and reflected and refracted optical signals.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method simultaneously employs complementary techniques to dynamically detect and locate hidden anomalies in structure. The method comprises providing an RF sub system comprising one or more pairs of transmitter and receiver ported coaxial cables one or more RF sources communicating with the transmitter ported coaxial cable s such that an RF source provides one or more RF analog signals and providing one or more RF receivers communicating with each of the receiver ported coaxial cable s such that each of the RF receivers receives the RF analog signal leaked from ports of the ported transmitter coaxial cable s as provided by the receiver ported cable s providing an optics sub system comprising one or more F.O. cables one or more optical transceivers communicating with the one or more F.O. cables providing a control sub system for operating the RF sub system and the optical sub system the control sub system communicating with each of the RF and the optical sub systems the control system comprising one or more processors one or more displays communicating with one or more processors one or more I O devices communicating with the processor s and the display s and one or more communications devices communicating with the I O device s installing the pair s of ported cables and the F.O. cable s entirely within the structure paralleling the longitudinal axis of the structure connecting the optical sub system to the F.O. cables and the control sub system connecting the RF sub system to the ported cables and the control sub system operating the RF sub system and the optical sub system to obtain process display and archive baseline data and operating the system in accordance with user requirements to detect and locate hidden anomalies by comparing dynamically received data with archived baseline data.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method employs directional drilling to install the ported cables and the F.O. cable s .

In select embodiments of the present invention the method comprises providing a telemetry sub system communicating with the control sub system and including with the telemetry sub system a cellular phone.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method integrates a TDR system with the RF sub system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method integrates an OTDR system with the optical sub system.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method integrates the processor s and the display s in one or more personal computers each incorporating a monitor.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides ported cables having integral slots with a width in the range of about 1.0 cm to about 2.5 cm and an opening angle of about 5 to about 20 the slots being spaced apart on the ported cables about 5 cm to about 30 cm along the length of each of the ported cables.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides F.O. cable s incorporating an optical fiber a micro bending inducer adjacent the optical fiber s and a soft resilient armor covering over the micro bending inducer such that the inducer and the covering facilitate the formation of micro bends in the optical fiber s upon impinging of the F.O. cable by solid media external to the covering.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides the TDR as one or more RF pulse modulated reflectometers.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method employs a step function with a fast rise time to simulate a pulsed analog RF signal.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides the analog signal as an RF pulse modulated signal.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method further provides processing that yields a measure of the time for a known portion of the optical analog signals to travel from the source end to impinging locations along the length of the F.O. cable and the reflection of the optical signal back to the source end.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides processing that employs an algorithm to extract location of the anomaly along the length of the structure.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method provides for comparing one or more features of the reflected signals to one or more reference signals to yield additional information for decision making.

In select embodiments of the present invention the method further provides for digitizing the reflected and refracted optical signals and processing them using a Fast Fourier Transform FFT algorithm such that the processing yields a power spectrum from which location and relative amplitude may be identified and displayed on a computer monitor.

Refer to a simplified diagram and perspective view of an embodiment of the present invention as incorporated in a structure such as a levee. In select embodiments of the present invention the basic section installed in the structure comprises two major sub systems a paired ported cable portion see also B and a F.O. cable portion that uses a single F.O. cable for both transmitting and receiving. Preferably an RF electronics package comprising at least a transmitter A and an RF receiver A and an opto electronics package comprising at least an optical transceiver A a local controller in operable communication with both packages and a telemetry unit are located immediately outside the structure for easy access for adjustment and maintenance. In addition a processor one or more displays an archiving system and an alarm are preferably co located remotely with a decision maker.

In select embodiments of the present invention an RF transmitter A transmits an RF signal through the ported transmitter coaxial cable hereafter transmitter cable that runs parallel to the long axis L of the structure such as within the toe of an earthen levee or dam. An RF receiver A is connected to the ported receiver coaxial cable hereafter receiver cable running parallel to the transmitter cable . An F.O. cable may be installed parallel to the ported coaxial cables or may be wrapped in a loose spiral around either of the ported coaxial cables for ease of installation of the F.O. cable . For a large structure it may be beneficial to install multiple pairs of ported coaxial cables together with an associated F.O. cable for each pair the additional installations being parallel to a first installation but at a different depth or at a different separation within the structure or both at a different depth and a different width to accommodate the shape of the structure .

In select embodiments of the present invention the transmitter cable carries a gated RF signal. The appropriate signal parameters are site dependent since the slot impedance varies as a function of soil parameters. Typical transmitted signal levels range front about 10 dBm to about 40 dBm with a receiving sensitivity over a 500 meter length of about 120 dBm. An RF signal is leaked from ports slots E of width w cut through insulation C at an angle and spaced at a distance along the ported cables . The dimensions and spacing of the ports E are set to meet a user s requirements. This results in a leaked signal being provided along the transmitter cable in a directional pattern to both intersect the media between the transmitter cable and the receiver cable and provide sufficient signal strength to establish a baseline signal at a standard dielectric coefficient of the media established as measured at installation of the ported coaxial cables . Thus the slots ports E in the ported coaxial cables are oriented to face like slots E in the other cable of a cable pair and provide optimum gain as well as irradiation of the media for the leaked signal in the direction of the receiving cable . For select embodiments of the present invention the value of is between about 5 and about 20 and preferably about 7.5 .

As a leaked RF signal from one of the slots E propagates through an area in the structure near which an anomaly occurs such as water seepage in a levee or dam the signal received by the receiver cable changes. That is coupling between the ported coaxial cables changes due to change in the dielectric coefficient of the media that may be due to a change in moisture content. The returned signal represents the degree of coupling along the cable and depends upon the dielectric. of the media typically an at least partially silty soil of a levee or dam in which the wave propagates.

The time of travel of the impressed RF signal through the transmitter cable to the anomaly plus the time of travel back through the receiver cable from the location of the anomaly determines the location of the anomaly along the structure . Further changes in time and frequency domain characteristics of the received signal compared to the transmitted signal may be used to determine physical characteristics of the anomaly . The location and severity of the anomalies are identified to a decision maker at the control sub system .

Specifically for an earthen structure characteristics of an RF signature vary with moisture content of the material between the two ported coaxial cables . Further displacement of soil is indicated by change in signal characteristics on the F.O. cable . Either displacement of material or vibrations transmitted through the structure may be detected in received optical signals and are indicated by changes in the distance traveled by the reflections of the impressed light signal preferably white light pulses.

In select embodiments of the present invention sensitivity may be adjusted by adjusting the power output of the RF transmitter A. Further a basic system may be extended to considerable length by incorporating amplifiers in both the transmitter and the receiver cables. In remote areas multiple systems may be linked to a remote processor and display alarm by a communications network such as indicated by the telemetry unit . Further select embodiments of the present invention envision a system comprising multiple layers i.e. ported cable and F.O. cable sets installed at multiple depths in the structure especially in those structures of considerable height.

Refer to a simplified block diagram describing basic elements used with select embodiments of the present invention. Three cables are installed in an earthen structure such as a levee or dam. If the earthen structure is of considerable length the cables will have associated amplifiers installed along their length at appropriate points. One or more RF transmitters A will feed the transmitter cable s and one or more RF receivers A will receive both the baseline response and any responses A indicating a possible anomaly . The F.O. cable is connected to an optical transceiver A that both transmits light pulses and receives the reflected light from the F.O. cable . In select embodiments of the present invention all the cables and associated transmitters A receivers A and transceivers A are controlled by a local controller that also inputs via a telemetry unit or cellular phone not shown separately to a remote processor that is accessed by a multi functional I O display and alarm device such as may be incorporated in a personal computer not shown separately . As shown in the multi functional device has communications to both the processor and the local controller via the telemetry unit or alternatively a cellular phone . Also shown in is an alternate configuration employing multiplexers M M M for feeding multiple RF ported cables and F.O. cables in large structures requiring the multiple cables .

In select embodiments of the present invention an RF gated transmitter A see also drives a ported transmission cable with an RF signal f t where cos 1 

A portion of the signal is referenced back to a receiver A to compare to the received signal. The coefficient A represents the power level at which the signal is transmitted and t represents frequency while B t represents the gate period applied allowing adjustment for maximum length of a levee for example. In select embodiments of the present invention the frequency is in the range of about 20 MHz to about 100 MHz. Parallel and adjacent to the transmitter cable at some distance depending on the type of soil cable material and the power level is a receiving cable a ported cable similar to the transmitting cable . As the gated RF signal propagates along the ported transmitter cable a portion of it is coupled to the receiving cable via the slotted ports E . The amount of coupling depends upon the type of soil and the amount of moisture within the soil both of which are factors contributing to the soil s dielectric constant. . A baseline coupling value along the length of the cables is established once the cables are installed.

To establish guidelines for use of select embodiments of the present invention in earthen structures requires a system operator to gather information on the general characteristics of the soils used in constructing the specific earthen structure to be monitored. The soil types along the path of the buried cable define the range of expected changes in dielectric properties due to changes in moisture. Therefore as the cables are emplaced the soil is characterized by collecting soil samples along the path of the installed cables recording location and depth by soil type e.g. silty clay and characteristic e.g. moisture content at installation. The use of resistivity temperature and moisture probes as well as select drilling and historical data provides additional calibration of the cable in particular response to variations in moisture. The clays will have a larger range of attenuation than the sands therefore measurements of soil moisture changes during a dry period and wet period will allow for seasonal changes in calibration. For example interpolation of the moisture profile between stations may be accomplished using an appropriate geostatistical technique to derive a continuous profile of moisture changes for the entire length of a buried cable. An attenuation of the signal may be then cross correlated to changes in moisture along the length of the cable. Also external data such as that available from a weather station e.g. historical rain fall patterns humidity variation and wind speed histograms may be factored into the estimate.

Refer to in which resistivity moisture and temperature measurements are being made by probes inserted in conjunction with installation of wrapped ported cables . also depicts how an anomaly such as a sand boil is detected as an anomaly A introduced via resultant seepage through the earthen structure . Although this may be detected by the probes initially continuous monitoring is optimized via the simple installation of the ported coaxial cables and one or more F.O. cables .

After removing the baseline values the received signal is compared to the reference signal wherein the value of coupling is determined at each point along the length of the cables . In addition to the value of coupling the approximate position of the coupling is determined along the length of the cables e.g. at Rand R by scaling the time of travel from B t until B t .

Refer to showing a section of the structure of in a top view incorporating ported cables L U L and U and F.O. cable . Pairs of ported cables at a lower elevation L L and at an upper elevation U U within the structure are shown. If the structure e.g. an earthen levee or dam is sufficiently long such that the ported cables L L U U or F.O. cables would be extended beyond their range of operation the range may be extended by utilizing amplifiers . Of course the optical amplifiers are bidirectional and the F.O. cables are located optimally to detect movement displacement within the structure .

Refer to for a comparison of the baseline response as a voltage E over time to an actual response indicating an anomaly discontinuity beginning at time T. The distance down the cable levee to where the discontinuity occurs is shown in as Rand is related to time propagation time of the RF signal down the ported transmission cable . The dielectric of the media. the media generally being soil is determined in the main by the amount of moisture and type of material and must be established as a baseline at least upon first installation of the cables . Of course as the material and its moisture content varies along the length of the structure the dielectric constant must be determined for each change in the material and its baseline moisture content. Changes in dielectric constant must be taken into account for the RF signal and any processing algorithms adjusted to account for each different baseline dielectric constant along the length of the ported cables .

An area of high continuity compared to the baseline indicates a potential problem e.g. a seepage path in a levee. Within this area the leakage signal from the ports B propagates across as a weaker signal as shown in at A being attenuated by the increase in the dialectic constant caused by the increased moisture. In select embodiments of the present invention the RF receiver A forwards the received signal preferably via a telemetry unit that may also communicate via a cellular phone to a processor that analyzes it. The processor is in operable communication with a display alarm and the telemetry units although a local display may also display processed data as appropriate. Either of the displays may output a warning that is analog digital visual aural or any combination thereof. Further any local or remote manner of providing an alert about hidden anomalies may be used. For example a CRT or other display interface for a human operator may be used for visual alerting. An audible signal may also be provided or both a visual an audible signal may be provided as well as an analog or digital signal to an automated system for recording and further processing to prepare an appropriate response. Remote notification may be by radio signal e.g. telemetry or cellular phone or hard wired network either dedicated or public.

A subsurface anomaly may also present via the F.O. cable as a seismic signal i.e. physical displacement over time. In select embodiments of the present invention this is established by using OTDR principles for measuring changes in arrival time of a pulsed light signal as compared to a baseline.

Refer to an end view through a cross section of a levee such as at of also depicting the water level and bottom of a water impoundment. For illustration simplicity only one ported transmitter cable and one ported receiver cable are shown installed. For select embodiments of the present invention shows how the ported cables may be buried emplaced on each side of a typical earthen levee approximately at the same depth within the structure and parallel one to the other. The F.O. cable is shown running parallel to the receiver cable although it may be placed nearer the transmitter cable in alternative embodiments. also shows a representation of electric field line A inducing an attenuated received signal in the receiver cable . A sub surface anomaly in indicated by the seepage line and in by the shaded area such as increased moisture decrement of soil and the like can be located by simple measurement of the change in propagation time due to the change in the dielectric constant of the surrounding media. Alternatively when it is helpful to correct for echoes and like phenomena that introduce errors the transmitted signal may incorporate a time varying characteristic in turn generating a time varying characteristic in the received signal R . The change in the received signal R caused by a sub surface anomaly as indicated in the time varying characteristic establishes the location of the sub surface anomaly using the well known TDR principle. The amplitude of the received signal R may also provide a measure of the severity of the anomaly .

Select embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in at least two manners using conventional time domain reflectometry TDR or using a pulse modulated technique. Inherent advantages of select embodiments of the present invention include robust construction minimally complex user interface no moving parts during operation low maintenance as compared to conventional methods straightforward installation and ability to automatically re set.

In select embodiments of the present invention an electronics package via a local controller is directly connected to a pair of ported coaxial cables to function as a Time Domain Reflectometer TDR . The principle of TDR is widely known described in the technical literature and applied to numerous measurement and testing applications. TDR operates by generating an electro magnetic pulse or a fast rise time step and coupling it to a transmission line. That pulse propagates down the transmission line at a fixed and calculable velocity a function of the speed of light and the electrical and physical characteristics of the transmission line. The pulse will propagate down the transmission line until the end of the line is reached and then will be reflected back towards the source. The time t that it lakes for the pulse to propagate down and back the length of the transmission line is called the round trip travel time and is calculated as 

Changes in the dielectric media in the volume immediately surrounding the ported cables cause a change in the round trip travel time. Freshwater has a dielectric coefficient of 88 dry sedimentary materials e.g. soil gravel and stone have an in the range of 5 to 8. Wet soil has a dielectric coefficient that is a mixture of those of water and dry soil. The dielectric coefficient of this mixture will vary depending upon the local soil constituency but in all cases the bulk dielectric bulk index of refraction of the mixture will be less than that of liquid water alone and significantly greater than that of the dry soil. Some soils particularly clay based soils are extremely lossy. This lossy behavior of the soil is exhibited by a severe attenuation of an electromagnetic pulse as it propagates across the soil via a leaky transmission line ported cable surrounded by such materials.

At any boundary at the ports E along the ported cables e.g. water soil moist soil dry soil a dielectric discontinuity exists. As a pulse leaking from a transmission cable to a receiver cable encounters these boundary conditions a portion of leaked energy is sent back to a receiver A from the boundary and a portion of the energy continues to propagate through the receive cable Measuring the time of flight of the pulse and knowing the dielectric medium through which the pulse is normally traveling permits calculation of the physical distance from the receiver A to each of the dielectric interface boundaries encountered. Further any change in amplitude of the received pulse indicates a change in the dielectric coefficient and the presence of an anomaly . Judicious selection of the slot size and separation of slots E in the ported coaxial cables to meet a user s requirements enables determination of both the severity and location of hidden anomalies within the earthen structure .

RF pulse modulated techniques are well known in radar system applications. Instead of launching energy from an antenna into free space as would be done in a radar application energy is coupled to a ported transmission cable . In a RF pulse modulated system a signal of constant amplitude whose frequency changes linearly with time is transmitted. While for the vast majority of applications the linear frequency time relationship is employed conceivably there are also applications in which a sinusoidal exponential logarithmic or other frequency time relationship may be useful. A RF pulse modulated signal may be produced by n voltage controlled oscillator VCO driven by a linear ramp generator. The signal propagates down the ported transmission cable and is effectively terminated from the far end and leaked at intermediate discontinuities represented at the ports slots E returning to the receiver A via the receive cable delayed by the round trip propagation time 2t. This returning attenuated signal is mixed with a sample of the VCO output that is fed directly to the mixer with a minimal but known delay. The mixing process produces sum. f and difference. f frequency spectra. Low pass filtering is applied to retain only f. Within f one component F is proportional to the distance D to the receive slot E of the parallel receive cable and can be determined using spectral analysis techniques. For a transmission line surrounded by a homogenous dielectric medium with a refractive index n D is found from 

The difference frequency spectra usually lie in the audio range. The spectra have a similar appearance to a time domain reflectometry TDR scan and can be calibrated as such with distance D related to the round trip travel time t by 

In select embodiments of the present invention a typical implementation of an RF pulse modulated transmission line sensor system may comprise several electronic components not separately shown . A sweep generator comprising a linear ramp generator and voltage controlled oscillator VCO may be used to supply a signal. The linear ramp generator is used to drive an RF voltage controlled oscillator VCO with sufficient swept bandwidth typically about 100 MHz to about 1000 MHz of bandwidth to provide the required resolution. The output of the sweep generator is coupled to the transmission cable through a circulator or similar device e.g. a T Magic T power splitter or the like that transfers the signal from the VCO directly to the transmission line. The swept signal propagates down the transmission cable leaking from the slots E is received by the receive cable reaches the distal end of both ported cables and is effectively terminated only the portions of the signal leaked at each slot E returned to the circulator or equivalent device. At the circulator the returned signal is routed to a mixer diode. There it is mixed with a separate leakage signal that has propagated across the short path between the VCO and the mixer. The resulting output of the mixer consists of a summed high frequency signal f and a low frequency audio range difference signal f. An RF low pass filter LPF passes f and attenuates f to a level making it inconsequential. Next the resultant passed signal is filtered through an audio high pass filter HPF to remove DC and low frequency audio components associated with any near end terminal reflections. An audio amplifier may be used to amplify the signal as needed for subsequent signal processing. This signal may be processed directly analyzed and stored or displayed. Alternatively this signal may be transmitted to a remote location over twisted pair coaxial cable radio cellular phone or other form of telemetry where it may be processed analyzed displayed further distributed and archived.

There are several methods by which the resulting audio signal may be processed. It may be viewed directly on an audio frequency spectrum analyzer or the like wherein spectral peaks indicate interface boundaries. Using a personal computer or the like it may be digitized and processed by a Fast Fourier Transform FFT algorithm resulting in a power spectrum in which spectral peaks indicate interface boundaries. Another alternative employs a bank of tuned narrowband audio band pass filters BPF closely spaced in center frequency each interfaced to a light emitting diode LED wherein progression of illuminated LEDs indicates change in the dielectric constant of the media.

To minimize the energy reflected by the interface at the slots E of the ported cables with the boundary at the slots E thus permitting a greater portion of the energy to propagate through the surrounding media the ported cables are impedance matched to the surrounding baseline media. Impedance matching may be accomplished in two ways by using an impedance transformer or preferably by designing the physical dimensions of the slots E to ensure an impedance match with a typical soil in the earthen structure . To simplify fabrication the latter method is preferred but may not be practical given large variance in soil types used in earthen structures . The characteristic impedance Z of a transmission cable is calculated by 

In select embodiments of the present invention the transmission cable may be designed to have a Z 25 when immersed in a representative silly or clay soil. As an example of the effects of an impedance mismatch a 50 ported coaxial cable provides about 3.5 dB of loss in a silly soil of a given moisture content. It is however able to produce a necessary reference signal delineating the ported cable slot E to media interface. In this implementation impedance matching is important for the section of the ported cables that are un insulated. i.e. surrounded by typical silty soil alone such as the slots E. This impedance changes as the dielectric medium e.g. water or water soil mix surrounding the ported cables changes however this difference does not significantly affect the ability of the system to clearly delineate the interface boundaries necessary to identify changes in the dielectric medium and locations thereof.

The dimensions of the ported cables may be varied depending on the application however in typical applications two parallel lengths of 14 gauge ported coaxial cable spaced about 3 m about 10 ft center to center are suitable for nominally dry silty soil typically used for earthen structures . In select embodiments of the present invention near exposed ends of the ported cables are connected to a system RF transmitter and RF receiver respectively. At the distal end of each ported cable there may be incorporated a terminator not separately shown .

In select embodiments of the present invention following installation an initial reference reading is made and the responses and the round trip travel times for the signal propagating along the ported transmission cable and back along the ported receiver cable are calculated and stored preferably in an associated computer not separately shown . Subsequently monitoring signal responses and round trip propagation times are acquired preferably automatically and signal levels and distances calculated and compared with reference data. In select embodiments of the present invention a real lime computer algorithm may be used to compare the reference data with subsequent measurements trigger an alarm when a significant change is observed in the signal response or a threshold difference in round trip travel time is reached. In select embodiments of the present invention an automatic electronic multiplexer may be associated with the control system to monitor an array consisting of sets of ported cables and F.O. cables installed within an earthen structure .

An optical TDR based OTDR scour probe that relies on micro bending in an optical fiber is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 526 189 to Yankielun Feb. 25 2003 incorporated herein by reference. Micro bending is caused by changes in the impinging pressure of surrounding material on a specially configured F.O. cable to indicate the extent of movement of the F.O. cable . Note that no change in the dielectric constant of the surrounding material is required for this measurement thus if the F.O. cable moves as a result of movement such as subsidence of material that is at a distance from the material immediately surrounding the F.O. cable the micro bending indicates an anomaly within the earthen structure in which the F.O. cable is installed. That is the anomaly does not have to have its source immediately adjacent the installed F.O. cable . The F.O. cable complements the paired ported coaxial cables in this respect since if there is no movement in the soil but there is a change in dielectric constant due to seepage the ported coaxial cables are able to quickly detect it.

In select embodiments of the present invention optical time domain reflectometry OTDR may be employed. OTDR functions similarly to electromagnetic FDR employing RF signal sources. The main difference between electromagnetic TDR and OTDR is that OTDR relies on photonic energy and an optical waveguide while FDR relies on electromagnetic energy and a metallic transmission line.

Refer to depicting a cross section taken longitudinally of a specialized F.O. cable that may be used in select embodiments of the present invention. A micro bend inducer B surrounds the optical fiber G and in turn is shielded by a soft pliable armor covering C. In select embodiments of the present invention the micro bend inducer B is an elongated tube providing width wise ridges spaced along its length. In select embodiments of the present invention the armoring C is a soft plastic material. Soil impinging against the soft armoring C causes the soft armoring C to extend inwardly which in turn applies pressure on the micro bend inducer B causing one or more of the ridges of the micro bend inducer B to engage the optical fiber G creating a micro bend F.

One advantage of a sensor based on an appropriately configured F.O. cable is that it is impervious to the effects of water conductivity. In an OTDR system a pulse may be generated by a laser or light emitting diode or the like and transmitted by a P.O. cable coupled thereto. The pulse propagates along the F.O. cable at a constant velocity that may be related to the speed of light in a vacuum and the index of refraction of the optical fiber G. If there are any irregularities F along the F.O. cable in particular those resulting in impinging on the optical fiber G itself as would be caused by a break sharp bend external pressure of other such disturbance a portion of the pulse s energy is reflected back from the irregularity F toward the optical transceiver A.

Further as discussed initially point pressure on the F.O. cable creates microbends F that also cause back scatter of photonic energy within the optical fiber G towards the transceiver A as indicated by the dashed arrows E. The time that is required for the light pulse to propagate from the transceiver A and back from the irregularity F can be determined in a manner similar to that used for an electromagnetic TDR system. However OTDR is based on the index of refraction of the optical fiber G itself and not the dielectric constant of the material surrounding the F.O. cable . Thus OTDR is especially useful as an alternative or complement to a metallic TDR system permitting continuous monitoring without regard to the lossiness of the media in which the F.O. cable is embedded.

Thus an optically based system may detect micro bending along the F.O. cable due to localized changes in impingement and movement of surrounding granular materials such as soil. Micro bending F of the F.O. cable at installation is determined and archived as a baseline since the F.O. cable itself will be enclosed within the soil of the structure and the freely suspended response as represented by the solid arrows D will be non applicable. This baselining such as detection and archiving of the position of a stone A impinging on the F.O. cable as installed permits ready detection of micro bending changes encountered after installation that may be related to recently introduced anomalies in the earthen structure . Having an awareness of movement beneath the surface appropriate action may then be recommended on a timely basis.

In select embodiments of the present invention the F.O. cable may be spirally wound around either of the ported cables or separately installed parallel to the ported cables . In select embodiments of the present invention the optical fiber G may be encased in appropriate flexible armoring C with or without a micro bending inducer B the flexibility itself permitting development of the micro bends F in the optical fiber G. Thus the location of the interface or boundary change region at which micro bending F occurs along the F.O. cable will be apparent.

Refer to a schematic of an opto electronics package implementing OTDR for use with select embodiments of the present invention. At least part of the package may be installed at the entrance of the F.O. cable to the earthen structure . By monitoring the change in distance travel time and correlating the amplitude of returned energy anomalous activity within the earthen structure may be tracked continuously.

In select embodiments of the present invention a train of photonic pulses preferably having a low duty cycle relative to the pulse width are generated by a source such as a pulse generator or the like. In select embodiments of the present invention the signal is provided by a cable as indicated at where A A is a cable connector to a trigger input T B of an oscilloscope . Alternatively the connection at A A may be by telemetry or cellular phone depending on a user s requirements. The signal from the source may also be amplified by an amplifier and used to energize a directional element such as a laser diode . In select embodiments of the present invention output from a laser diode is coupled via a connector as at C C preferably a long optical fiber umbilical cable to the F.O. cable through a two way optical connector such as an optical signal splitter optical directional coupler or the like. Any reflected signal from the F.O. cable is coupled through the two way optical connection means e.g. a splitter optical directional coupler or the like to a fast response device such as a phototransistor or similar device. The output of the fast response device is amplified by an amplifier connected to a vertical amplifier V A of the oscilloscope . A resulting trace C on the oscilloscope displays the reflections resulting from the micro bends F along the F.O. cable as well as any stray returns from the cable s termination.

In select embodiments of the present invention die connection C C between a splitter and the F.O. cable may be implemented by direct connection of the splitter to the F.O. cable by using a directly connected short optical fiber connector or by using a long optical fiber umbilical cable. Alternatively data may be transmitted to a remote control center via telemetry or cellular phone for processing analysis decision making and archiving .

The buried optical sensor comprises one or more F.O. cables laid either parallel to ported cables or a F.O. cable spirally wrapped about one or both not shown separately of the pair of ported cables . In select embodiments of the present invention an opto electronics package and a multiplexer not shown separately are provided and output to an appropriate processor display as described above. In select embodiments of the present invention the F.O. cable is a 1 mm step index plastic fiber with a numerical aperture NA of 0.51 a core refractive index of 1.492 a cladding refractive index of 1 402 and an attenuation of less that about 0.20 dB m. Industrial Fiber Optics Inc. 1999 . Other F.O. cables either plastic or glass with different characteristics may be used.

In one embodiment of the present invention data acquisition processing and display software is written in commercially available objected oriented language. Other convenient or appropriate computer language may be employed. Custom displays or display formats suitable for use on existing CRTs or LCDs may be developed for clear indication of anomalous conditions. Further an alert function may be programmed into the processor to indicate when the anomalous condition has reached a critical level.

Depending on implementation specifics select embodiments of the present invention may have the source amplifiers laser diode splitter and photo transistor replaced with an optical power meter not shown separately that measures the reflected photonic power present in an optical path. A power meter provides a more sophisticated and expensive implementation that monitors the power of both the transmitted and the reflected refracted optical signal while producing an output proportional to the normalized reflected power.

Refer to depicting top A and perspective B line drawings of the test setup for laboratory tests. A rectangular box having a length L much greater that either its width W or height H was fitted with two ported cables installed at depth D from the bottom of the box and separation S between each cable each cable having their ends exposed outside the box with the distal ends of each ported cable terminated in a terminating resistor respectively. The box was then filled with soil and various levels of water added as indicated by the arrow and the depth d to test the operation of the ported coaxial cables . An RF pulse generator was attached to the transmission cable and an oscilloscope was attached to the receive cable as a receiver processor and display.

Refer to summarizing results from laboratory tests of the ported cables . The response of the receive cable as displayed on the oscilloscope is provided on the ordinate in dB as related to the distance in cm D d from the ported cables of the water seepage represented by the shaded area . The range of responses of the receive cable to the leakage signal from the transmit cable for each distance D d is that provided by the lines while the most likely response is that shown by the boxes and the average response is that depicted by the dots . It is evident that as the distance D d decreases to less than 27 cm the range of responses increases dramatically and saturation D d 0 is about the same average as for D d 8 cm but the range of responses for all distances D d less than 27 cm is similar from 19 cm through saturation . Thus in addition to the amplitude of the response at the receive cable indicating seepage the extended range of responses may indicate how close to saturation the seepage is becoming.

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of some of its embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within die spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples for monitoring earthen structures in particular levees and dams it may be used for any type of remote monitoring and thus may be useful in such diverse applications as landslide and avalanche warning bridge and overpass structural monitoring mining drilling remediating environmental intervention military operations and the like. Structure monitored may be of any type ranging from naturally occurring to large manmade monoliths. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

