---

title: Visual audio links for digital audio content
abstract: Methods and systems for providing visual audio links for digital audio content include playing the digital audio content on an electronic device that has a display; displaying on the display visual audio links associated with terms of relevance from the digital audio content as the terms of relevance are played during playing of the digital audio content, wherein each of the visual audio links is a reference to additional content associated with the corresponding term of relevance; in response to receiving a user's selection of one of the visual audio links, presenting the additional content associated with the corresponding term of relevance, wherein the user is granted a license to the additional content; and when presentation of the additional content completes, playing the digital audio content at a point where the corresponding term of relevance was mentioned, such that the user is granted rewind rights based on the terms of relevance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949718&OS=08949718&RS=08949718
owner: Lemi Technology, LLC
number: 08949718
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080905
---
Talk shows broadcast over Internet radio also known as streaming radio are multiplying quickly as evidenced by the success in the genre by satellite radio network operators. Many Internet radio stations are associated with the corresponding traditional or terrestrial radio station or network e.g. ESPN and the NFL Network . The most common way to distribute Internet radio is via streaming technology that presents listeners with a continuous stream of audio which depending on the type of media player application used to play the stream may have little or no control over playback.

Although Internet talk radio is experiencing increasing popularity when listeners hear topics of interest during a program it is left up to the listeners on how to best follow up to learn more about the topics. For example some listeners may choose to perform manual web searches on those topics. In many cases the listeners may postpone performing a web search until after the program has ended to keep from being distracted. One disadvantage of waiting however is that the likelihood the listeners will forget or loose interest in performing the search will increase with time.

In addition much information related to many topics discussed during the programs may be associated with premium content that is not available over the Internet to the general public. For example if a listener hears an NFL Network show about NFL Greats the user may be unable to find over the Internet much less view video footage owned by the NFL Network regarding NFL Greats which are rights restricted.

Exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for providing visual audio links for digital audio content. Aspects of the exemplary embodiment include playing the digital audio content on an electronic device that has a display displaying on the display visual audio links associated with terms of relevance from the digital audio content as the terms of relevance are played during playing of the digital audio content wherein each of the visual audio links is a reference to additional content associated with the corresponding term of relevance in response to receiving a user s selection of one of the visual audio links presenting the additional content associated with the corresponding term of relevance wherein the user is granted a license to the additional content and when presentation of the additional content completes playing the digital audio content at a point where the corresponding term of relevance was mentioned such that the user is granted rewind rights based on the terms of relevance.

The present invention relates to visual audio links for digital audio content. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. Various modifications to the preferred embodiments and the generic principles and features described herein will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

The exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for providing visual audio links for digital audio content such as for an Internet talk radio program to provide a listener with access to additional content associated with the program while the program is playing. As an electronic device such as a handheld or mobile device plays the digital audio content visual audio links such as hyperlink icons are displayed on the device s display that are associated with terms of relevance detected in the narrative of the digital audio content content. The visual audio links are references to additional content associated with the terms of relevance and may be associated with rights granted to the additional content such that when the listener selects one of the visual audio links the additional content is presented to the user. The user of the electronic device may also use the visual audio links as a way to scroll back and navigate to a previous position in the program where a previous topic was mentioned.

In one embodiment the digital audio content may primarily comprise audio programs such as from an Internet talk radio station for example. In one embodiment the digital audio content may comprise a streaming audio format that is streamed across the network by the server and played by the electronic device in real time e.g. Internet radio streams or webcasts . Common streaming audio formats include MP3 Ogg Vorbis Windows Media Audio RealAudio and HE AAC sometimes called aacPlus . In one embodiment such as where content of an digital audio content comprises a talk show program for example the content may be obtained from a live feed not shown .

In another embodiment the digital audio content may comprise an audio file that is downloaded from the server to the electronic device and played once received by the electronic device e.g. podcasts . Although in the exemplary embodiment the digital audio content comprises audio programs of Internet radio in another embodiment the digital audio content may comprise any words that may be converted into text from which terms of relevance may be detected such as songs for example. Thus the digital audio content may also include an MP3 file.

The content repository stores terms of relevance e.g. keywords and phrases that may be associated with the additional content stored by the additional content server . When requested by the server the license server grants licenses to the additional content stored by the additional content server to enable users of the electronic device to access the additional content.

In one embodiment the server may execute a natural language process that functions to detect terms of relevance in text of the audio program comprising the digital audio content based on a context of the audio program and to associate visual audio links with the terms of relevance where each of the visual audio links is a reference to additional content. Although the natural language process is shown as a single component and executing on a single server the functionality of the natural language process may be implemented using a greater number of components and may execute on more than one server.

The electronic device may include a display a media player application a user profile repository and a visual audio link application . In one embodiment the electronic device may comprise any device having a display such as a mobile or handheld device including a cell phone personal digital assistant MP3 player and the like as well as a larger electronic device including a laptop a PC or a kiosk for instance.

The media player application may be capable of playing the digital audio content and in some embodiments video files not shown . Audio is played through an output device see of the electronic device and video may be displayed on the display . The user profile repository may store one or more user profiles that contain term and topic preferences that are used by the visual audio link application to control display of the visual audio links . The user profile repository may be implemented as a database a table or a file.

Visual audio links associated with terms of relevance are displayed on the display as the terms of relevance are narrated played from the digital audio content. In one embodiment the visual audio links may represent hyperlinks that are displayed as a text an icon a graphic or a combination thereof. In the example shown four visual audio links are displayed corresponding to four terms of relevance and the visual audio links are displayed as a combination of text icons and graphics depicting the term of relevance . Although the visual audio links are shown displayed in a two column format visual audio links may be displayed in a variety of formats.

According to the exemplary embodiment the visual audio links may scroll across the display as the digital audio content is played. For example the visual audio links may scroll from the bottom to the top or from the top to the bottom of the display as shown by the arrow . In one specific embodiment the visual audio links may appear at the bottom of the display and scroll to the top of the display after which the visual audio links disappear and are replaced by new ones as new terms of relevance are mentioned in the program. In the example of the arrow could represent a scroll bar that allows the user to scroll up and view previously mentioned topics of discussion via the visual audio links .

By displaying the visual audio links simultaneously with the audible program narrative a user can look at the visual audio links and quickly know what topics have been discussed in the program. If the user has been distracted this view gives the user a quick review of what has been discussed.

Referring again to in response to receiving a user s selection of one of the visual audio links the additional content associated with the corresponding term of relevance is presented wherein the user is granted a license to the additional content block . In one embodiment all the licenses to all the additional content may be granted previous to streaming downloading to the electronic device and the electronic device may validate each license when the corresponding additional content is accessed. In another embodiment each license may be granted at the time the user selects the visual audio link and the license may be validated at the same time. If the electronic device is equipped with a touchscreen the user may select the visual audio link by clicking or tapping the visual audio link . Otherwise an appropriate input device may be used.

Once selected the selected visual audio link is used as a reference to retrieve the additional content associated with the corresponding term of reference and to the rights to the additional content if necessary. The additional content may comprise video audio text a webpage or any combination thereof.

As shown in the example of the user has selected the visual audio link for left tackle. In response the user is granted access rights to NFL video and to special NFL.com content that may not be available to the general public.

In one embodiment the rights granted may be restricted by a time duration. For example the time duration may be configured such that the license granted to the additional content automatically expires at the end of a streaming program expires at a predetermined time after the beginning or ending of streaming downloading or playing the digital audio content or expires at a predetermined time and date.

In one embodiment once the user selects one of the visual audio links playing of the digital audio content may be automatically paused while the additional content is played. When presentation of the additional content completes playback of the original digital audio content may automatically continue from the previous pause location.

Referring again to when presentation of the additional content completes the digital audio content is played at a point where the corresponding term of relevance was mentioned such that the user is granted rewind rights based on the terms of relevance block . Allowing the user to click on any of the visual audio links provides the user with a method to scroll back and navigate to a previous position in the program using an internal buffer of the media player application where previous topics were mentioned. In another embodiment the visual audio link application may also allow the user to scroll forward through visual audio links to provide both the user with fast forward rights as well as rewind rights.

Notice that if the user clicks on a visual audio link that is current to the discussion in the program narrative then completion of the additional content may have no effect on play back since play back may begin at the point where the digital audio content was paused.

In the example shown in assume that the user profile shown is customized for an NFL network Internet radio program. The preferences that may be set for the NFL network Internet radio program include football terms personalities teams and game highlights . Preference setting values or weights from high to low may be assigned to each preference using a sliding scale although any method could be used to assign values . This user feels that he has sufficient football knowledge so the user sets the football terms preferences to a low value setting. He is very interested in football personalities and game highlights and somewhat interested in football teams and sets those preferences accordingly.

In operation the visual audio link application running on the user s electronic device will access the user s user profile and filter which visual audio links are displayed and therefore what additional content is made available so that the user will get more premium content in which he is interested.

In one embodiment the preference value settings in the user profile may be used to control the speed at which the visual audio links scroll to the top of the screen. In one embodiment for example the visual audio links may be made to appear as bubbles that float from the bottom of the display to the top. A preference having a high value would be weighted heavier so the bubble would float to the surface slowly giving the user a longer time to select it. In contrast to a less relevant preference having a low value setting that would scroll float to the surface at a much faster pace. This provides the user with a way to control how visual audio links are displayed and how quickly the visual audio links disappear off the screen and to provide a visual feedback of how the visual audio links associated with terms of relevance in the digital audio content are weighted to the user profile . So for example the user noticing a visual audio link of an interesting topic scrolling quickly off the display may be a visual cue to the user that the preferences in his or her profile need adjusting.

The natural language process determines what additional content to associate with the terms of relevance by searching for the detected terms of relevance found in the digital audio content with the terms of relevance stored in the content repository block .

When a match is found the natural language process uses the matching visual audio link to identify the additional content to be associated with the term of relevance and generates a license for the additional content which is stored in the license server for subsequent validation block . Based on the identification of the additional content the generated license includes the appropriate grant of rights and restrictions.

License rights to the additional content may be implemented using digital right management DRM obfuscation and or keys. In DRM a license to use the additional content is associated with the digital audio content and detected by the electronic device . The license is provided to the license server for verification when the additional content is accessed which may restrict access to the additional content to particular times and or locations. In obfuscation the additional content is hidden from the public Internet and is instead made available via the visual audio links associated with the digital audio content. With keys a key associated with the digital audio content the key is extracted by the media player application and then used to decrypt and access the additional content .

The natural language process sends with the digital audio content the terms of relevance the visual audio links to the additional content and the licenses to the additional content block . In one embodiment the visual audio links are sent with timestamps such that display of the visual audio links can be synchronized to the audio program as the audio program is played. In the embodiment where the audio program is radio stream steps through may be performed in real time. In a further embodiment advertisements in the form of sponsoring logos and icons also may be associated with the terms of relevance and or the additional content and displayed.

In one embodiment the visual audio links and licenses may be sent as part of the digital audio content. In another embodiment the visual audio links and licenses may be sent separate from the digital audio content. In the embodiment where the digital audio content is a streaming file the server may embed the visual audio links and licenses directly into the outgoing stream.

In an alternative embodiment the visual audio links and licenses may be associated with the terms of relevance by the electronic device instead of the server . In this embodiment the natural language process may be located on the electronic device . The electronic device would receive the digital audio content perform audio to text conversion perform natural language process to determine terms of relevance and bind the additional content to the terms of relevance via the visual audio links through communication with the content repository . In this embodiment the electronic device may pull images of the visual audio links in real time either from the network or even locally if pre stored and determine which of the visual audio links to display based on the user profile .

Alternatively the electronic device may receive the digital audio content and the terms of relevance from the server but not the visual audio links . In this case the electronic device may just need to associate the terms of relevance with additional content via the visual audio links and then determine which ones of the visual audio links to display based on the user profile .

On the electronic device once the media player application begins playing the digital audio content the visual audio link application determines which of the visual audio links associated with the terms of relevance to display based on the user profile block . The visual audio link application displays the visual audio links and any associated graphics block .

In response to receiving a user selection of one of the displayed visual audio links a license validator for the media player application sends any license associated with the additional content to the license server for validation block . If the license is validated the media player application uses the visual audio link to retrieve the additional content and then presents the additional content on the display block . The media player application also enforces any rights restrictions associated with the license to the additional content e.g. license duration etc. block . If the license is not validated the media player application prevents access to additional content and may display a prompt to the user that access is denied block .

A method and system for providing visual audio links for digital audio content such as an Internet radio audio stream has been disclosed. The present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown and one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that there could be variations to the embodiments and any variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. For example the present invention can be implemented using hardware software a computer readable medium containing program instructions or a combination thereof. Software written according to the present invention is to be either stored in some form of computer readable medium such as memory or CD ROM and is to be executed by a processor. Accordingly many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

