---

title: Antibody diversity generation
abstract: Methods for improving antibodies by a variety of DNA diversification and selection procedures are provided. Improvements include increases in affinity, alterations in specificity and effector function, as well as reduced antigenicity, e.g. humanization. Libraries of recombinant antibody sequences are provided, as are cells expressing members of such libraries. Novel phage display vectors are provided. Methods for the coevolution of an antibody and its cognate antigen are provided. Coevolution is used to evolve HIV envelope proteins with increased antigenicity and broadly neutralizing antibodies that interact therewith. Methods of improving antibodies for use in the detection of biological warfare agents are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08252727&OS=08252727&RS=08252727
owner: Maxygen, Inc.
number: 08252727
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080205
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 686 945 filed Oct. 16 2003 now abandoned which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 704 469 filed Nov. 1 2000 now abandoned which claims priority to and benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 163 370 filed Nov. 3 1999 and U.S. provisional application No. 60 176 002 filed Jan. 12 2000 the specifications of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to altered antibodies and antigen binding fragments methods for the production of altered antibodies and antigen binding fragments and therapeutic and other uses thereof. The present invention also relates to altered antibodies and antigen binding fragments having improved antigen binding affinity and or antigen binding specificity methods for the production of such antibodies and uses thereof.

Antibodies are extremely valuable both as therapeutic agents and as general reagents in a variety of molecular biological processes. Methods of producing polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies are available as are many antibodies. A number of basic texts describe standard antibody production processes including e.g. Borrebaeck ed 1995 2Freeman and Company NY Borrebaeck McCafferty et al. 1996 IRL at Oxford Press Oxford England McCafferty and Paul 1995 Towata N.J. Paul Paul ed. 1993 Raven Press N.Y. Coligan 1991 N.Y. Harlow and Lane 1989 Cold Spring Harbor Press NY Stites et al. eds. 4th ed. Lange Medical Publications Los Altos Calif. and references cited therein Goding 1986 2d ed. Academic Press New York N.Y. and Kohler and Milstein 1975 256 495 497.

Naturally occurring antibodies or immunoglobulins Igs comprise a basic four polypeptide chain structure comprising two identical heavy H chains and two identical light L chains which are stabilized and cross linked by intrachain and interchain disulphide bonds. Different antibody classes comprise variants of this four chain structure. Each heavy chain comprises a variable domain at N terminal followed by several constant domains. Each light chain has a variable domain at its N terminal and one constant domain at its C terminal. Because the largest amount of sequence variation is concentrated in the N terminal domains of the light and heavy chains each of these domains is termed a variable V domain or V region . The constant domains make up the constant region which comprises the remainder of the molecule and exhibits relatively little sequence variation. Heavy chains are comprised of five major types depending on the antibody class and consist of about 450 600 amino acid residues. Light chains are of two major types and have about 230 amino acid residues. Both heavy and light chains are folded into domains comprising globular polypeptide regions.

In the antibody the variable domain of the light chain is aligned with the variable domain of the heavy chain the constant domain of the light chain is aligned with the first constant domain of heavy chain. The variable domains of each pair of light and heavy chains form the antigen binding site for binding the antibody to an epitope of the antigen. The constant domains in the light and heavy chains are not directly involved in antigen binding. Each heavy or light chain variable domain comprises four relatively conserved framework FR regions or framework segments which are separated and connected by three hypervariable or complementarity determining regions CDRs which are believed to contact the target antigen of the antibody and to be principally responsible for binding of the antibody to the antigen.

The framework regions and CDRs have been precisely defined. See e.g. Kabat E. A. et al. SPII US Dept. Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health USA 5ed. 1991 and Wu et al. 132 211 250 1970 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. For additional discussion of the structure of variable domains see Poljak R. J. et al. 70 3305 3310 1973 Segal D. M. et al. 71 4298 4302 1974 and Marquart M. et al. 141 369 391 1980 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. The sequences of the framework regions of different light or heavy chains are relatively conserved within a species. The combined heavy and light chain framework regions of an antibody serve to position and align the CDRs for proper binding to the antigen.

The amino acids of the CDRs of the variable domains were initially defined by Kabat based on sequence variability to consist of amino acid residues 31 35 H1 50 65 H2 and 95 102 H3 in the human heavy chain variable domain V and amino acid residues 24 34 L1 50 56 L2 and 89 97 L3 in the human light chain variable domain V using Kabat s numbering system for amino acid residues of an antibody. See Kabat et al. SPII US Dept. Health and Human Services NIH USA 5th ed. 1991 . Chothia and Lesk 196 901 917 1987 presented another definition of the CDRs based on residues that included in the three dimensional structural loops of the variable domain regions which were found to be important in antigen binding activity. Chothia et al. defined the CDRs as consisting of amino acid residues 26 32 H1 53 55 H2 and 96 101 H3 in the human heavy chain variable domain V and amino acid residues 26 32 L1 50 52 L2 and 91 96 L3 in the human light chain variable domain V . Combining the CDR definitions of Kabat and Chothia the CDRs consist of amino acid residues 26 35 H1 50 65 H2 and 95 102 H3 in human Vand amino acid residues 24 34 L1 50 56 L2 and 89 97 L3 in human V based on Kabat s numbering system.

V genes encode the approximately N terminal 95 amino acids of the V domains. The number of V genes at each locus varies between loci and species but may include up to about several hundred V genes.

Antibody heavy chain V domains include V genes D diversity genes and J joining genes. The large diversity in antibody variable domains results from in part recombination between V D and J gene segments. To produce a gene encoding a heavy chain variable domain any one of the heavy chain variable domain genes is recombined with any one of a small number of D and J genes to produce a VDJ gene. The recombination process of a light chain variable domain is similar except that a V gene is recombined directly with a J gene since light chain variable domains have no D gene segments.

Over the last decade a variety of recombinant techniques for antibody preparation which do not rely on injection of an antigen into an animal have been developed. For example it is possible to generate and select libraries of recombinant antibodies in phage or similar vectors. See e.g. Winter et al. 1994 Making Antibodies by Phage Display Technology 12 433 55 and the references cited therein for a review. See also Griffiths and Duncan 1998 Strategies for selection of antibodies by phage display 9 102 8 Hoogenboom et al. 1998 Antibody phage display technology and its applications 4 1 20 Gram et al. 1992 in vitro selection and affinity maturation of antibodies from a na ve combinatorial immunoglobulin library 89 3576 3580 Huse et al. 1989 246 1275 1281 and Ward et al. 1989 341 544 546. Kits for cloning and expression of recombinant antibody phage systems are known and available e.g. the recombinant phage antibody system mouse ScFv module from Amersham Pharmacia Biotechnology Uppsala Sweden . Bacteriophage antibody libraries have also been produced for making high affinity human antibodies by chain shuffling Marks et al. 1992 By Passing Immunization Building High Affinity Human Antibodies by Chain Shuffling 10 779 782.

In general the libraries include repertoires of V genes e.g. harvested from populations of lymphocytes or assembled in vitro which are cloned for display of associated heavy and light chain variable domains on the surface of filamentous bacteriophage. Phage are selected by binding to an antigen. Soluble antibodies are expressed from phage infected bacteria and the antibody can be improved e.g. via mutagenesis. For example Stemmer et al. 1993 Selection of an Active Single Chain Fv Antibody From a Protein Linker Library Prepared by Enzymatic Inverse PCR 14 2 256 65 describes production of large libraries of site directed single chain Fv antibody mutants. Other references also propose library mutagenesis strategies such as computer assisted oligo directed scanning mutagenesis. See e.g. Balint and Larrick 1993 Antibody Engineering by Parsimonious Mutagenesis 137 109 118.

More recently forced evolution methods have been adapted to recombinant antibody construction and improvement methods to produce optimized antibodies. For example Crameri et al. 1996 Construction and evolution of antibody phage libraries by DNA shuffling 2 100 103 describe e.g. the construction and evolution of antibody phage libraries by a variety of DNA recombination procedures e.g. DNA shuffling. Crameri and Stemmer 1995 Combinatorial multiple cassette mutagenesis creates all the permutations of mutant and wildtype cassettes 18 194 195 describe e.g. in vitro recombination of antibody DNA fragments scFv fragments by combinatorial multiple cassette mutagenesis.

A variety of patents by the inventors and their co workers provide additional details on diversification procedures e.g. shuffling applicable to the directed evolution of antibodies including U.S. Pat. No. 5 605 793 to Stemmer Feb. 25 1997 METHODS FOR IN VITRO RECOMBINATION U.S. Pat. No. 5 811 238 to Stemmer et al. Sep. 22 1998 METHODS FOR GENERATING POLYNUCLEOTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS BY ITERATIVE SELECTION AND RECOMBINATION U.S. Pat. No. 5 830 721 to Stemmer et al. Nov. 3 1998 DNA MUTAGENESIS BY RANDOM FRAGMENTATION AND REASSEMBLY U.S. Pat. No. 5 834 252 to Stemmer et al. Nov. 10 1998 END COMPLEMENTARY POLYMERASE REACTION and U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 458 to Minshull et al. Nov. 17 1998 METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR CELLULAR AND METABOLIC ENGINEERING. 

For example the 793 patent details improvement of antibodies involving diversification e.g. by DNA shuffling of a library of mutant CDRs. The 721 patent details e.g. peptide display methods and antibody display and screening methods. In general a variety of antibody diversification are found throughout the noted patents.

Although methods of producing antibodies by making screening and evolving antibodies and antibody libraries are established it would be desirable to have additional techniques for antibody generation and refinement. Furthermore a general technology platform for addressing these issues would be desirable. The present invention provides these and other features which will be apparent upon a complete review of the following.

The present invention relates to a new technology platform for producing antibodies involving the diversification of antibody encoding sequences e.g. using a variety of recombination and mutagenesis procedueres including DNA shuffling methods. In addition the invention provides for antigen antibody co evolution and for the improvement of a variety of antibodies of interest. Several methods of humanizing antibodies are also provided. Libraries of nucleic acids produced by the methods as well as corresponding character strings in computer systems e.g. sequence data corresponding to the nucleic acids of the library are also provided. Cells comprising the library members and antibodies produced by the methods are provided.

As noted the invention provides methods of modifying an initial antibody. For example the initial antibody can be a known antibody such as one of those noted herein. In the methods a first nucleic acid or for in silico aspects a character string encoding an initial antibody of Tables 1 and 2 or a homologue or a fragment thereof is diversified in one or more rounds of recombination with or without additional mutagenic procedures and screening selection with one or more second character string or second antibody coding nucleic acid or second homologue or second fragment thereof. This produces a library of nucleic acids encoding modified antibodies and or a data set of nucleic acid character strings encoding modified antibodies.

For example the diversification can include recursively recombining the first nucleic acid or character string encoding an initial antibody of Table 1 or 2 or a homologue or fragment thereof with one or more second character string or second antibody coding nucleic acid or second homologue or second fragment thereof to produce a library of nucleic acids encoding modified antibodies or a data set of nucleic acid character strings encoding modified antibodies. To increase the diversity of any resulting recombinant nucleic acids a second recombination step in which the members of the library or the character strings in the data set are further recombined is optionally performed. The one or more resulting recombinant nucleic acids is selected for a desirable trait or property which results in first round selected nucleic acids or character strings. Typically a third recombination step in which the first round selected nucleic acids or character strings are recombined with each other or with one or more additional nucleic acid or character string is performed. For example the one or more additional nucleic acid of character string can correspond to the initial antibody gene or to a library of nucleic acids such as a na ve or induced human library e.g. to further evolve and or humanize resulting second round recombined nucleic acids. Recursive rounds of recombination can be performed with any of the enumerated nucleic acids or character strings or with any products of any round of recombination. Recombination is performed in vitro in vivo in silico or by a combination thereof.

Aspects of the present invention provide methods of evolving antibodies with increased affinity relative to a parental antibody. Such antibodies are the products of an ex vivo analog of the affinity maturation process. The invention also includes the coevolution of an antibody and its cognate antigen. A target antigen is selected and optimized for one or more properties. This optimized antigen can then be used to select among a population of diversified antibodies with or without prior immunization of an animal host.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods for modifying antibody effector function. Features of the invention include Fc regions and antibodies comprising them made by the methods of the invention. Antibody Fc regions can be enhanced in any of a number of respects including for example Fc receptor binding and complement component Clq binding.

In any case resulting libraries recombinant cells comprising one or more members of the libraries computer readable media comprising data sets of interest and the like are accordingly features of the invention as are kits comprising such elements. Kits optionally further comprise instructions for practicing the methods herein containers for holding the materials packaging elements and the like.

The technology platform herein use expression cassettes which facilitate diversification cloning and expression of antibody sequences. For example the invention includes an Ig expression cassette. The cassette includes e.g. one or more cloning sites for heavy chain VH and light chain VL sequences an encoded N terminal fusion of VH and VL with an stII or other functional signal sequence an encoded C terminal fusion of VH and VL to human CH1 and a human CL regions an encoded C terminal fusion of VH and or CH to a phage gIII protein an amber stop codon at an antibody domain gill border and a promoter such as a lacZ promoter an alkaline phosphatase promoter or an arabinose promoter. For example the cassette can include a nucleic acid subsequence encoding a single chain antibody ScFv a human kappa CL or a human lambda CL or the like. In the cassette the stII signal sequence provides periplasmic targeting the C terminal fusions of VH CL to the phage gill protein provides for display on the surface of filamentous phage the amber stop codon produces soluble antibody fragment in non suppressing strains and the lacZ or other promoter provides inducible Ig gene expression in a host cell.

As noted the invention provides a recombinant cell comprising the vector and optionally other features which facilitate expression. For example the vector can include one or more helper phage e.g. a M13KO7 phage or a VCS M13 phage . In one embodiment the cell is a non suppressing host such as strain W3110. Alternatively expression of the recombinant nucleic acids of the invention can be in another bacterial cell a yeast cell or a mammalian cell.

Libraries of recombinant cassettes containing a plurality of antibody sequences are also provided. The libraries can include e.g. a plurality of expression cassettes as noted above which include a plurality of different antibody encoding nucleic acids such as variants of one or more antibody parental nucleic acid.

Specific applications are also provided. For example the invention includes methods of providing a population of diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids. The methods include hybridizing a set of overlapping anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acid fragments e.g. synthesized oligonucleotides nuclease digested nucleic acids and the like and elongating the set of hybridized overlapping anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acid fragments. The set of overlapping anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acid fragments can include e.g. anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acid fragments anti Streptococcus enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acid fragments and the like.

In one embodiment of the invention the population of diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids can be expressed to provide a variant anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody with desirable properties e.g. a polyreactive antibody a hyper reactive antibody etc. . In another embodiment the diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids can be introduced into a cell e.g. an organism and expressed to provide a variant anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody.

The methods can also include denaturing a population of diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids rehybridizing the denatured population and extending the rehybridized population to provide a population of further diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids. The steps of denaturing rehybridizing and extending can optionally be repeated. The population of further diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids can also optionally be selected for efficient binding by an encoded anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody to at least one enterotoxin. The population of further diversified anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody nucleic acids can also be expressed to provide at least one further variant anti enterotoxin monoclonal antibody e.g. a polyreactive antibody a hyper reactive antibody etc. .

As used herein an antibody refers to a protein comprising one or more polypeptides substantially or partially encoded by immunoglobulin genes or fragments of immunoglobulin genes e.g. a fragment containing one or more complementarity determining region CDR . The recognized immunoglobulin genes include the kappa lambda alpha gamma delta epsilon and mu constant region genes as well as myriad immunoglobulin variable region genes. Light chains are typically classified as either e.g. kappa or lambda. Heavy chains are typically classified e.g. as gamma mu alpha delta or epsilon which in turn define the immunoglobulin classes IgG IgM IgA IgD and IgE respectively.

A typical immunoglobulin antibody structural unit comprises a tetramer. In nature each tetramer is composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains each pair having one light about 25 kD and one heavy chain about 50 70 kD . The N terminus of each chain defines a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition. The terms variable light chain VL and variable heavy chain VH refer to these light and heavy chains respectively.

Antibodies exist as intact immunoglobulins or as a number of well characterized fragments produced by digestion with various peptidases. Thus for example pepsin digests an antibody below the disulfide linkages in the hinge region to produce F ab 2 fragment antigen binding and Fc fragment crystallizable or fragment complement binding . F ab 2 is a dimer of Fab which itself is a light chain joined to VH CH1 by a disulfide bond. The F ab 2 may be reduced under mild conditions to break the disulfide linkage in the hinge region thereby converting the Fab dimer into an Fab monomer. The Fab monomer is essentially an Fab with part of the hinge region. The Fc portion of the antibody molecule corresponds largely to the constant region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain and is responsible for the antibody s effector function see 4edition. W.E. Paul ed. Raven Press N.Y. 1998 for a more detailed description of antibody fragments . While various antibody fragments are defined in terms of the digestion of an intact antibody one of skill will appreciate that such Fab or Fc fragments may be synthesized de novo either chemically or by utilizing recombinant DNA methodology peptide display or the like. Thus the term antibody as used herein also includes antibody fragments either produced by the modification of whole antibodies or synthesized de novo using recombinant DNA methodologies.

Antibodies also include single armed composite monoclonal antibodies single chain antibodies including single chain Fv sFv antibodies in which a variable heavy and a variable light chain are joined together directly or through a peptide linker to form a continuous polypeptide as well as diabodies tribodies and tetrabodies Pack et al. 1995 246 2811 1271 and 31 1579 . The antibodies are e.g. polyclonal monoclonal chimeric humanized single chain Fab fragments fragments produced by an Fab expression library or the like.

A polyreactive antibody is an antibody that can bind to more than one antigen such as a bacterial toxin e.g. from and others.

A hyper reactive antibody is an antibody that binds to an antigen with higher avidity or affinity than other antibodies.

The terms humanized antibody molecule or humanized antibody or humanized immunoglobulin are used interchangeably herein to refer to a molecule comprising an antigen binding site derived from one or more non human immunoglobulins with at least a portion of the framework region of the light or heavy chain variable domain derived from one or more human immunoglobulins. A humanized antibody as used herein includes a humanized light chain variable domain immunoglobulin and a humanized heavy chain variable domain immunoglobulin. Optionally the humanized antibody includes a constant region partially or wholly derived from including synthetic analogs one or more human gene sequence. A humanized antibody is expected to bind to the same target antigen as a donor antibody which supplied the CDRs. Typically all segments or portions of the humanized antibody or immunoglobulin with the exception of the CDRs are substantially identical or substantially homologous to corresponding segments or portions of naturally occurring human immunoglobulin sequences. The humanized antibody typically has the structure of a naturally occurring antibody or a fragment of a naturally occurring antibody e.g. a complete antibody a ScFv antibody a Fab fragment a Fab fragment a light chain dimer or a heavy chain dimer.

The term chimeric antibody is used to denote an antibody that is derived typically through cloning methodologies from more than one source or organism. Typically large regions of sequence integrity are maintained through relatively simple cutting and pasting procedures that join polynucleotide sequences encoding e.g. a murine or other non human variable region such as a Fab fragment with a human constant region such as an Fc fragment.

Monoclonal MAb antibodies account for a significant portion of the U.S. market for biopharmaceuticals. Of the original biopharmaceuticals approved for sale in 1998 30 were antibody based Biotechnology Information Institute 1999 . In fact antibodies account for nearly 50 of all compounds currently in clinical trials Wittrup 1999 Phage on display 17 423 424. For convenience antibody products can be grouped into at least five general classes based upon their intended use or function. These classes are set forth below.

The first general class of antibody products are magic bullets. These are primarily tumor specific MAbs that arrest tumor growth by one of the following mechanisms a Targeting tumor cells for destruction by antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC or complement mediated lysis CML . One example is Rituxan IDEC Pharmaceutical Inc. an anti CD20 MAb for the treatment of Non Hodgkins lymphoma Scott 1998 Rituximab a new therapeutic monoclonal antibody for non Hodgkin s lymphoma 6 195 7 . b A second example relates to antibodies which interfere with a critical component of tumor growth. Herceptin Genentech Inc. an anti HER 2 monoclonal antibody for treatment of metastatic breast cancer is an example of an antibody with this mechanism of action Baselga et al. 1998 Recombinant humanized anti HER2 antibody Herceptin enhances the antitumor activity of paclitaxel and doxorubicin against HER2 neu overexpressing human breast cancer xenografts published erratum appears in 1999 59 8 202058 2825 31 . c A third example relates to antibodies for delivery of cytotoxic compounds toxins radionuclides etc. directly to a tumor or other site of interest. For example One application Mab is CYT 356 a 90Y linked antibody that targets radiation directly to prostate tumor cells Deb et al. 1996 Treatment of hormone refractory prostate cancer with 90Y CYT 356 monoclonal antibody 2 1289 97. d A fourth application is antibody directed enzyme prodrug therapy ADEPT where an enzyme co localized to a tumor activates a systemically administered pro drug in the tumor vicinity. For example Glaxo Wellcome Inc. is developing an anti Ep CAMI antibody linked to carboxypeptidase A for treatment of colorectal cancer Wolfe et al. 1999 Antibody directed enzyme prodrug therapy with the T268G mutant of human carboxypeptidase A1 in vitro and in vivo studies with prodrugs of methotrexate and the thymidylate synthase inhibitors GW1031 and GW184310 38 48 .

The second general class of antibody products are antagonists. These MAbs are designed to specifically inhibit normal cellular functions for therapeutic benefit. An example is Orthoclone OKT3 an anti CD3 MAb offered by Johnson and Johnson for reducing acute organ transplant rejection Strate et al. 1990 Orthoclone OKT3 as first line therapy in acute renal allograft rejection 22 219 20.

The third general class of antibody products are agonists. These Mabs are designed to specifically enhance normal cellular functions for therapeutic benefit. For example Genentech Inc. is developing Mab based agonists of acetylcholine receptors for neurotherapy Xie et al. 1997 Direct demonstration of MuSK involvement in acetylcholine receptor clustering through identification of agonist ScFv 15 768 71.

The fourth general class of antibody products are diagnostic antibodies. There are many applications of MAbs to the field of diagnostics. With high target binding specificity affordability and ease of use antibodies are the reagents of choice for clinical diagnostics. Assays range from simple spot tests to more involved methods such as the radio labeled NR LU 10 MAb from DuPont Merck Co. used for tumor imaging Rusch et al. 1993 NR LU 10 monoclonal antibody scanning. A helpful new adjunct to computed tomography in evaluating non small cell lung cancer. 106 200 4 . In the research laboratory MAbs are central reagents for ELISA western blotting immunochemistry affinity chromatograpy methods and the like.

The fifth general class of antibody products provide novel functions. The main antibodies in this group are catalytic antibodies such as Ig sequences that have been engineered to mimic the catalytic abilities of enzymes Wentworth and Janda 1998 Catalytic antibodies 2 138 44. For example an interesting application involves using the catalytic antibody mAb 15A10 to hydrolyze cocaine in vivo for addiction therapy Mets et al. 1998 A catalytic antibody against cocaine prevents cocaine s reinforcing and toxic effects in rats 95 10176 81 .

Existing antibodies are not perfect drugs or diagnostic agents they can have problems with low activity undesirable side effects allergic reactions low specificity low avidity or the like. Antibodies can be improved by a increasing the antigen binding affinity thereby increasing therapeutic or diagnostic activity b increasing antigen binding specificity thus reducing clinical side effects and increasing diagnostic specificity c decreasing the immunogenicity of the antibody molecule to avoid immune intolerance of therapeutics e.g. by humanizing antibodies where the therapeutic use of the antibody occurs in a human patient d increasing stability under a variety of in vitro buffer conditions to regain activity after repeated cycles of denaturation and renaturation to improve ease of preparation or to extend serum half life in vivo and e improving effector function of an antibody e.g. by increasing complement activation or opsonization .

As a solution to these limitations this invention provides a technology platform to clone Mabs specific to any given antigen and to employ diversification procedures such as DNA shuffling to improve their therapeutic and or diagnostic potential. Mabs have an advantage over polyclonal antibodies in that Mabs provide consistent reagents that bind to specific epitopes with known binding affinities. Polyclonal antibody preparations contain a mixture of antibodies that bind to many different epitopes of the same antigen. This lack of binding specificity of polyclonal preparations makes them unsuitable for therapeutic use. However certain features of the invention can also be applied to polyclonal antibody preparations

Construction and screening of antibody phage display libraries is a well established procedure with many possible variations Griffiths and Duncan 1998 Strategies for selection of antibodies by phage display 9 102 8 Hoogenboom et al. 1998 Antibody phage display technology and its applications 4 1 20 . In the present invention vectors that contain optimal combinations of useful features are provided. Specifically vectors include a backbone containing the ampR gene and replication origin from pBR322 Bolivar et al. 1977 Construction and characterization of new cloning vehicles. II. A multipurpose cloning system 2 95 113 the f1 origin for phage Lorenzetti et al. 1985 Plasmid pFCE4 a new system of expression modification vectors 39 85 7 and an Ig expression cassette for Fab production.

The Ig expression cassette contains a cloning sites for heavy chain VH and light chain VL sequences b N terminal fusions of VH and VL with the stII signal sequence for periplasmic targeting Chang et al. 1989 Periplasmic secretion of human growth hormone by 17 335 7 c C terminal fusions of VH and VL to human CH1 and CL regions which provide stable Ig expression in d C terminal fusions of VH CL to the phage gIII protein for monovalent display Bass et al. 1990 Hormone phage an enrichment method for variant proteins with altered binding properties 8 309 14 e an amber stop codon at the Ab gIII border to produce soluble Fab in non suppressing strains and f the lacZ promoter for inducible Ig gene expression Messing et al. 1977 Filamentous coliphage M13 as a cloning vehicle insertion of a HindIII fragment of the lac regulatory region in M13 replicative form in vitro 74 3642 6 .

An advantage of this Ig cassette lies in the fusions of VH and VL to known human CH1 and CL. Typically fusions of variable regions to the constant domains of antibodies that are well expressed in insures that the recombinant antibodies will also be highly expressed.

An additional advantage is when the donor species for the Fab library is not human then human chimeric Fabs are more desirable as human therapeutic agents than purely non human Fabs due to their decreased immunogenicity in humans . Variants of these vectors include a separate vectors containing the human kappa CL or the human lambda CL b the alkaline phosphatase AP promoter to provide phosphate limiting inducible expression Kikuchi et al. 1981 The nucleotide sequence of the promoter and the amino terminal region of alkaline phosphatase structural gene phoA of 9 5671 8 the arabinose PBAD promoter for quantitative gene induction Guzman et al. 1995 Tight regulation modulation and high level expression by vectors containing the arabinose PBAD promoter 177 4121 30 c a modified Ig cassette to express single chain antibodies scFv McCafferty et al. 1990 Phage antibodies filamentous phage displaying antibody variable domains 348 552 4 or d a vector modified to encode a constant region comprising a Fc region that is the substrate for recombination. Other modification will be apparent to one of skill.

Additionally phage displaying antibodies can be used to target and transfect mammalian cells with packaged DNA encoding a variety of functions. Barry et al. proposed 1996 2 229 that isolated phage displaying specific targeting peptides direct DNAs to target cells. Antibodies are more effective than peptides for this purpose as they typically bind to their target e.g. a cell to be transfected with higher affinity than do targeting peptides.

The choice of a target antigen is made based upon any available criteria such as the existence of an antigen target on a cell. For example to isolate novel MAbs for cancer immunotherapy a human tumor specific antigen is chosen as an antigen target. Selection criteria include specificity of the antigen to tumor cells availability stability of purified antigen and the like. Further details are found herein e.g. in Additional Details Regarding Antibody and Target Selection. 

Animals e.g. mouse hamster rabbit chicken are a logical source of anti human antibodies since their immune systems recognize human proteins as foreign. Many diagnostic MAbs are derived from animal Ig sequences. However such antibodies retain characteristic animal sequences which may elicit adverse reactions when used as human therapeutics. Immunization of non human primates such as monkeys offers the potential advantage of generating a repertoire of nearly human high affinity antibodies. An alternative approach is to isolate fully human Mabs from large libraries of na ve non immunized human donors. If the library is sufficiently diverse MAbs against many self antigens can be routinely isolated Griffiths et al. 1993 Human anti self antibodies with high specificity from phage display libraries 12 725 34 Vaughan et al. 1996 Human antibodies with sub nanomolar affinities isolated from a large non immunized phage display library see comments . Nat Biotechnol 14 309 14. 

The spleen is a convenient source of animal tissue while peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC are good sources of human tissue Marks et al. 1991 By passing immunization. Human antibodies from V gene libraries displayed on phage 222 581 97 or bone marrow Vaughan et al. 1996 Human antibodies with sub nanomolar affinities isolated from a large non immunized phage display library see comments . 14 309 14 .

Using DNA sequence alignments of Igs primers are designed to amplify human Tomlinson 1991 . Academic Press London mouse Clackson et al. 1991 Making antibody fragments using phage display libraries 352 624 8 Yamanaka et al. 1995 An improved phage display antibody cloning system using newly designed PCR primers optimized for Pfu DNA polymerase Tokyo 117 1218 27 chicken Davies et al. 1995 Selection of specific phage display antibodies using libraries derived from chicken immunoglobulin genes 186 125 35 Yamanaka et al. 1996 Chicken monoclonal antibody isolated by a phage display system 157 1156 62 or other available genes.

Independent insertion sites for VH and VH sequences creates combinatorial diversity of heavy and light chains.

Library diversity can be limited by transformation efficiency. However electroporation of cells can routinely yield 1 10transformants per microgram of DNA Sharma and Schimke 1996 Preparation of electrocompetent using salt free growth medium 20 42 4 . For example strain XL1 Blue is an appropriate strain to tranform as it has the supE44 mutation that allows read through of the amber stop codon to create gIII fusions.

If wild type M13KO7 or VCS M13 helper phage are used then over 90 of rescued phage contain wild type gIII and therfore display no Fabs Vieira and Messing 1987 Production of single stranded plasmid DNA 153 3 11. However any Fabs that are displayed will be monovalent this is helpful when selecting for antibodies with increased binding affinities Garrardet al. 1991 Fab assembly and enrichment in a monovalent phage display system 9 1373 7.

If monovalent display is not used then the effective diversity of the library can be increased by using a helper phage with a deleted gIII thus insuring that every rescued phage will display FAb Rakonjacet al. 1997 Filamentous phage infection mediated gene expression construction and propagation of the gIII deletion mutant helper phage R408d3198 99 103 .

Typically the antigen is affixed to plasticware such as immunotubes or microtiter plates Kretzschmar et al. 1995 Selection procedures for nonmatured phage antibodies a quantitative comparison and optimization strategies 224 413 9 or ELISA plates Barbas and Burton 1996 Selection and evolution of high affinity human anti viral antibodies 14 230 4. If the supply of antigen is not limiting more efficient selection can be performed by affinity chomatography Bass et al. 1990 Hormone phage an enrichment method for variant proteins with altered binding properties 8 309 14 .

Plasmid DNA from positive clones identified in a phage screen is isolated and transformed into a non suppressing host eg W3110 . Without the a sup mutation translation terminates at the amber stop codon and free Fab is produced. Soluble Fab is prepared and tested for specific binding to the original antigen by standard ELISA methods. DNA from positive clones is sequenced to determine the uniqueness of each clone after multiple rounds of panning e.g. against purified antigen cells or whole tissues up to greater than 90 of recovered clones will share the same sequence Barbas et al. 1993 Molecular profile of an antibody response to HIV 1 as probed by combinatorial libraries 230 812 23. Depending on the application further tests can be conducted such as measuring antigen binding affinities by surface plasmon resonance Alfthan 1998 Surface plasmon resonance biosensors as a tool in antibody engineering 13 653 63 epitope mapping by scanning mutagenesis Cunningham and Wells 1989 High resolution epitope mapping of hGH receptor interactions by alanine scanning mutagenesis 244 1081 5 Balint and Larrick 1993 Antibody Engineering by Parsimonious Mutagenesis 137 109 118 or ex vivo neutralization tests Laal et al. 1993 A rapid automated microtiter assay for measuring neutralization of HIV 19 781 5 .

Directed Evolution of Monoclonal Antibodies for Improved Detection and Neutralization of Bacterial Enterotoxins

The present invention can include providing monoclonal antibodies e.g. against the and enterotoxins which can be optimized via a variety of diversification procedures including among many others DNA shuffling e.g. as diagnostic and or immunotherapeutic agents. For example in the military sector e.g. the Department of Defense DOD Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA etc. there is a need for rapid and accurate diagnosis of potential biological warfare agents such as the and enterotoxins. In one embodiment monoclonal antibodies including the improved monoclonal antibodies of the invention can be combined with appropriate hardware e.g. a hand held Biacore device such as the one being investigated by A. Barraud at the Centre d Etudes Nucleaires de Saclay France an antibody based fiber optic biosensor device like the one developed by Geo Centers Inc. Fort Washington Mass. that provides rapid and sensitive results and the like. Improved diagnostics for enterotoxins are useful both for civilian and military purposes. Furthermore antibodies like those generated against enterotoxins can be humanized and evaluated as immunotherapeutic agents for the treatment of sepsis.

Monoclonal antibodies are available e.g. from Research Diagnostics Inc. Igen International Inc. etc. that recognize some enterotoxin groups. Additionally polyclonal antibodies have been used in ELISAs to detect toxins from specific groups. These or other pre existing antibodies or any novel antibodies can be optimized by the recombination and mutagenesis e.g. nucleic acid shuffling methods disclosed herein. For example the diversified e.g. shuffled antibodies of the invention can be selected to be more polyreactive i.e. binding to toxins from all of the major groups and more reactive or hyper reactive i.e. binding to antigens with higher affinity . Polyreactive monoclonal antibodies can provide value in that fewer unique antibody clones are necessary e.g. to detect and or neutralize known enterotoxins. Hyper reactive monoclonal antibodies can provide value in terms of increased sensitivity of each assay or therapeutic application.

Chimeric proteins can be generated by a variety of recombination and mutagenesis procedures such as nucleic acid shuffling e.g. enterotoxin gene families e.g. groups A B C D E G H I J TSST 1 groups A B and C and the like which in turn can be used as vaccines to provide protection against challenges from multiple enterotoxin groups. Lymphocytes from vaccinated mice can be isolated the IgG sequences can be cloned into a phage display vector and the resulting libraries can be panned against the chimeric toxins. Polyreactive clones can be selected and thereafter further diversified to improve their binding properties. See e.g. Crameri et al. 1996 Construction and Evolution of Antibody Phage Display Libraries by DNA Shuffling Nat. Med. 2 100. Advantages of this approach include that the antibody phage display produces monoclonal antibodies that are superior to polyclonals in terms of reproducibility of activity and production cost. Furthermore DNA diversification and selection procedures e.g. shuffling can significantly improve the binding properties of antibodies and the selected monoclonals can serve as proprietary clones.

MAbs specific to HBsAg V antigen and Strep enterotoxins are optimized by DNA diversification and selection. MAbs specific to each antigen or antigen variant provides new and useful reagents for epitope mapping affinity purification neutralization tests ELISAs and western analysis. In addition a convenient and reliable source of immunized donor tissue is produced by mice vaccination studies of the variant antibodies.

DNA vaccines have the advantage that an isolated gene can be used for immunization without requirement for the protein. However the B cell responses are often weak Laylor et al. 1999 DNA vaccination favours memory rather than effector B cell responses 117 106 12 and are difficult to measure by conventional methods. As the HBsAgs are tested by DNA vaccination phage display is a powerful new system to characterize antibody responses induced by genetic vaccines. In addition this provides a rapid means to generate new MAbs against proteins when only the DNA sequences are available.

The strength of binding of an antibody to its cognate antigen is referred to as its affinity. Affinity maturation is usually thought of as the increase in affinity of an immune response upon subsequent doses of an immunogen. In nature it reflects the somatic mutation of variable gene sequences of individual antigen stimulated B cells followed by selection and clonal expansion of those B cells bearing higher affinity antigen receptors.

The methods of the present invention provide for an ex vivo analog of affinity maturation. For example various DNA shuffling and or additional diversification procedures are highly efficient forms of hypermutation which unlike the process observed in vivo are not restricted to so called hypervariable regions. Diversity or hypermutation resulting from e.g. the shuffling process provides the substrate for an artificial selection process. In cases where the selection criteria include increased affinity relative to a parental antibody or to a reference standard of binding affinity maturation is in essence achieved.

For example a first step towards improving antibody binding affinities involves chain shuffling where the VH or VL gene of the parent antibody is replaced with a complete V gene repertoire and re selected Schier and Marks 1996 Efficient in vitro affinity maturation of phage antibodies using BIAcore guided selections 7 97 105 . The DNA diversification and selection procedures described herein are an improvement of this process in that they create additional diversity by randomly inserting V gene fragments as well as any other antibody or antibody homologue subsequence into the parental gene framework.

Alternatively effector function of an antibody can be modified and or optimized by recombination and or mutagenesis of the heavy chain constant or Fc regions. Recombinant Fc sequences can be assayed directly in a complex functional assay e.g. whole animal pathogenic challenge or by using in vitro model systems such as antibody based neutralization or complement mediated lysis assays.

Antibody encoding polynucleotides are optionally used as substrates for a variety of recombination and recursive recombination e.g. DNA shuffling reactions. A variety of diversity generating protocols including nucleic acid shuffling protocols are available and fully described in the art. The procedures can be used separately and or in combination to produce one or more variants of a nucleic acid or set of nucleic acids as well variants of encoded proteins. Individually and collectively these procedures provide robust widely applicable ways of generating diversified nucleic acids and sets of nucleic acids including e.g. nucleic acid libraries useful e.g. for the engineering or rapid evolution of nucleic acids proteins pathways cells and or organisms with new and or improved characteristics.

While distinctions and classifications are made in the course of the ensuing discussion for clarity it will be appreciated that the techniques are often not mutually exclusive. Indeed the various methods can be used singly or in combination in parallel or in series to access diverse sequence variants.

The result of any of the diversity generating procedures described herein can be the generation of one or more nucleic acids which can be selected or screened for nucleic acids that encode proteins with or which confer desirable properties. Following diversification by one or more of the methods herein or otherwise available to one of skill any nucleic acids that are produced can be selected for a desired activity or property e.g. increased affinity or specificity reduced immunogenicity of the encoded antibody. This can include identifying any activity that can be detected for example in an automated or automatable format by any of the assays in the art e.g. by ELISA Biacore plasmon resonance immunodiffusion immunoprecipitation affinity column purification etc. A variety of related or even unrelated properties can be evaluated in serial or in parallel at the discretion of the practitioner.

Descriptions of a variety of diversity generating procedures including recursive recombination procedures e.g. shuffling and or methods which can be incorporated into such procedures for generating modified nucleic acid sequences encoding antibodies are found the following publications and the references cited therein Stemmer et al. 1999 Molecular breeding of viruses for targeting and other clinical properties 4 1 4 Ness et al. 1999 DNA Shuffling of subgenomic sequences of subtilisin 17 893 896 Chang et al. 1999 Evolution of a cytokine using DNA family shuffling 17 793 797 Minshull and Stemmer 1999 Protein evolution by molecular breeding 3 284 290 Christians et al. 1999 Directed evolution of thymidine kinase for AZT phosphorylation using DNA family shuffling 17 259 264 Crameri et al. 1998 DNA shuffling of a family of genes from diverse species accelerates directed evolution 391 288 291 Crameri et al. 1997 Molecular evolution of an arsenate detoxification pathway by DNA shuffling 15 436 438 Zhang et al. 1997 Directed evolution of an effective fucosidase from a galactosidase by DNA shuffling and screening 94 4504 4509 Patten et al. 1997 Applications of DNA Shuffling to Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 8 724 733 Crameri et al. 1996 Construction and evolution of antibody phage libraries by DNA shuffling 2 100 103 Crameri et al. 1996 Improved green fluorescent protein by molecular evolution using DNA shuffling 14 315 319 Gates et al. 1996 Affinity selective isolation of ligands from peptide libraries through display on a lac repressor headpiece dimer 255 373 386 Stemmer 1996 Sexual PCR and Assembly PCR In . VCH Publishers New York. pp. 447 457 Crameri and Stemmer 1995 Combinatorial multiple cassette mutagenesis creates all the permutations of mutant and wildtype cassettes 18 194 195 Stemmer et al. 1995 Single step assembly of a gene and entire plasmid form large numbers of oligodeoxy ribonucleotides 164 49 53 Stemmer 1995 The Evolution of Molecular Computation 270 1510 Stemmer 1995 Searching Sequence Space 13 549 553 Stemmer 1994 Rapid evolution of a protein in vitro by DNA shuffling 370 389 391 and Stemmer 1994 DNA shuffling by random fragmentation and reassembly In vitro recombination for molecular evolution. 91 10747 10751.

Mutational methods of generating diversity include for example site directed mutagenesis Ling et al. 1997 Approaches to DNA mutagenesis an overview Anal 254 2 157 178 Dale et al. 1996 Oligonucleotide directed random mutagenesis using the phosphorothioate method 57 369 374 Smith 1985 In vitro mutagenesis 19 423 462 Botstein Shortle 1985 Strategies and applications of in vitro mutagenesis 229 1193 1201 Carter 1986 Site directed mutagenesis 237 1 7 and Kunkel 1987 The efficiency of oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis in Eckstein F. and Lilley D.M.J. eds. Springer Verlag Berlin mutagenesis using uracil containing templates Kunkel 1985 Rapid and efficient site specific mutagenesis without phenotypic selection 82 488 492 Kunkel et al. 1987 Rapid and efficient site specific mutagenesis without phenotypic selection 154 367 382 and Bass et al. 1988 Mutant Trp repressors with new DNA binding specificities 242 240 245 oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis 100 468 500 1983 154 329 350 1987 Zoller Smith 1982 Oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis using M13 derived vectors an efficient and general procedure for the production of point mutations in any DNA fragment 10 6487 6500 Zoller Smith 1983 Oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis of DNA fragments cloned into M13 vectors 100 468 500 and Zoller Smith 1987 Oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis a simple method using two oligonucleotide primers and a single stranded DNA template 154 329 350 phosphorothioate modified DNA mutagenesis Taylor et al. 1985 The use of phosphorothioate modified DNA in restriction enzyme reactions to prepare nicked DNA 13 8749 8764 Taylor et al. 1985 The rapid generation of oligonucleotide directed mutations at high frequency using phosphorothioate modified DNA 13 8765 8787 1985 Nakamaye Eckstein 1986 Inhibition of restriction endonuclease Nci I cleavage by phosphorothioate groups and its application to oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis 14 9679 9698 Sayers et al. 1988 Y T Exonucleases in phosphorothioate based oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis 16 791 802 and Sayers et al. 1988 Strand specific cleavage of phosphorothioate containing DNA by reaction with restriction endonucleases in the presence of ethidium bromide 16 803 814 mutagenesis using gapped duplex DNA Kramer et al. 1984 The gapped duplex DNA approach to oligonucleotide directed mutation construction 12 9441 9456 Kramer Fritz 1987 . Oligonucleotide directed construction of mutations via gapped duplex DNA 154 350 367 Kramer et al. 1988 Improved enzymatic in vitro reactions in the gapped duplex DNA approach to oligonucleotide directed construction of mutations 16 7207 and Fritz et al. 1988 Oligonucleotide directed construction of mutations a gapped duplex DNA procedure without enzymatic reactions in vitro 16 6987 6999 .

Additional suitable methods include point mismatch repair Kramer et al. 1984 Point Mismatch Repair 38 879 887 mutagenesis using repair deficient host strains Carter et al. 1985 Improved oligonucleotide site directed mutagenesis using M13 vectors 13 4431 4443 and Carter 1987 Improved oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis using M13 vectors 154 382 403 deletion mutagenesis Eghtedarzadeh Henikoff 1986 Use of oligonucleotides to generate large deletions 14 5115 restriction selection and restriction selection and restriction purification Wells et al. 1986 Importance of hydrogen bond formation in stabilizing the transition state of subtilisin 317 415 423 mutagenesis by total gene synthesis Nambiar et al. 1984 Total synthesis and cloning of a gene coding for the ribonuclease S protein 223 1299 1301 Sakamar and Khorana 1988 Total synthesis and expression of a gene for the a subunit of bovine rod outer segment guanine nucleotide binding protein transducin 14 6361 6372 Wells et al. 1985 Cassette mutagenesis an efficient method for generation of multiple mutations at defined sites 34 315 323 and Grundstr m et al. 1985 Oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis by microscale shot gun gene synthesis 13 3305 3316 double strand break repair Mandecki 1986 1993 Protein engineering for unusual environments 4 450 455. Oligonucleotide directed double strand break repair in plasmids of a method for site specific mutagenesis 83 7177 7181 . Additional details on many of the above methods can be found in Volume 154 which also describes useful controls for trouble shooting problems with various mutagenesis methods.

Additional details regarding various diversity generating methods can be found in the following U.S. patents PCT publications and EPO publications U.S. Pat. No. 5 605 793 to Stemmer Feb. 25 1997 Methods for In Vitro Recombination U.S. Pat. No. 5 811 238 to Stemmer et al. Sep. 22 1998 Methods for Generating Polynucleotides having Desired Characteristics by Iterative Selection and Recombination U.S. Pat. No. 5 830 721 to Stemmer et al. Nov. 3 1998 DNA Mutagenesis by Random Fragmentation and Reassembly U.S. Pat. No. 5 834 252 to Stemmer et al. Nov. 10 1998 End Complementary Polymerase Reaction U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 458 to Minshull et al. Nov. 17 1998 Methods and Compositions for Cellular and Metabolic Engineering WO 95 22625 Stemmer and Crameri Mutagenesis by Random Fragmentation and Reassembly WO 96 33207 by Stemmer and Lipschutz End Complementary Polymerase Chain Reaction WO 97 20078 by Stemmer and Crameri Methods for Generating Polynucleotides having Desired Characteristics by Iterative Selection and Recombination WO 97 35966 by Minshull and Stemmer Methods and Compositions for Cellular and Metabolic Engineering WO 99 41402 by Punnonen et al. Targeting of Genetic Vaccine Vectors WO 99 41383 by Punnonen et al. Antigen Library Immunization WO 99 41369 by Punnonen et al. Genetic Vaccine Vector Engineering WO 99 41368 by Punnonen et al. Optimization of Immunomodulatory Properties of Genetic Vaccines EP 752008 by Stemmer and Crameri DNA Mutagenesis by Random Fragmentation and Reassembly EP 0932670 by Stemmer Evolving Cellular DNA Uptake by Recursive Sequence Recombination WO 99 23107 by Stemmer et al. Modification of Virus Tropism and Host Range by Viral Genome Shuffling WO 99 21979 by Apt et al. Human Papillomavirus Vectors WO 98 31837 by del Cardayre et al. Evolution of Whole Cells and Organisms by Recursive Sequence Recombination WO 98 27230 by Patten and Stemmer Methods and Compositions for Polypeptide Engineering WO 98 13487 by Stemmer et al. Methods for Optimization of Gene Therapy by Recursive Sequence Shuffling and Selection WO 00 00632 Methods for Generating Highly Diverse Libraries WO 00 09679 Methods for Obtaining in Vitro Recombined Polynucleotide Sequence Banks and Resulting Sequences WO 98 42832 by Arnold et al. Recombination of Polynucleotide Sequences Using Random or Defined Primers WO 99 29902 by Arnold et al. Method for Creating Polynucleotide and Polypeptide Sequences WO 98 41653 by Vind An in Vitro Method for Construction of a DNA Library WO 98 41622 by Borchert et al. Method for Constructing a Library Using DNA Shuffling and WO 98 42727 by Pati and Zarling Sequence Alterations using Homologous Recombination. 

Certain U.S. applications provide additional details regarding various diversity generating methods including SHUFFLING OF CODON ALTERED GENES by Patten et al. filed Sep. 28 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 407 800 EVOLUTION OF WHOLE CELLS AND ORGANISMS BY RECURSIVE SEQUENCE RECOMBINATION by del Cardayre et al. filed Jul. 15 1998 U.S. Ser. No. 09 166 188 and Jul. 15 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 354 922 OLIGONUCLEOTIDE MEDIATED NUCLEIC ACID RECOMBINATION by Crameri et al. filed Sep. 28 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 408 392 and OLIGONUCLEOTIDE MEDIATED NUCLEIC ACID RECOMBINATION by Crameri et al. filed Jan. 18 2000 PCT US00 01203 USE OF CODON BASED OLIGONUCLEOTIDE SYNTHESIS FOR SYNTHETIC SHUFFLING by Welch et al. filed Sep. 28 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 408 393 METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov et al. filed Jan. 18 2000 PCT US00 01202 and e.g. METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov et al. filed Jul. 18 2000 U.S. Ser. No. 09 618 579 METHODS OF POPULATING DATA STRUCTURES FOR USE IN EVOLUTIONARY SIMULATIONS by Selifonov and Stemmer filed Jan. 18 2000 PCT US00 01138 and SINGLE STRANDED NUCLEIC ACID TEMPLATE MEDIATED RECOMBINATION AND NUCLEIC ACID FRAGMENT ISOLATION by Affholter filed Mar. 2 2000 U.S. Ser. No. 60 186 482 .

In brief several different general classes of sequence modification methods such as mutation recombination etc. are applicable to the production of antibodies with improved and desired properties and set forth e.g. in the references above.

The following exemplify some of the different types of preferred formats for diversity generation in the context of the present invention including e.g. certain recombination and recursive recombination based diversity generation formats.

Nucleic acids can be recombined in vitro by any of a variety of techniques discussed in the references above including e.g. DNAse digestion of nucleic acids to be recombined followed by ligation and or PCR reassembly of the nucleic acids. For example sexual PCR mutagenesis can be used in which random or pseudo random or even non random fragmentation of the DNA molecule is followed by recombination based on sequence similarity between DNA molecules with different but related DNA sequences in vitro followed by fixation of the crossover by extension in a polymerase chain reaction. This process and many process variants is described in several of the references above e.g. in Stemmer 1994 91 10747 10751. Thus nucleic acids encoding antibodies antibody fragments and the like are fragmented and recombined in vitro based on sequence similarity and then selected for the property of interest.

Similarly nucleic acids can be recursively recombined in vivo e.g. by allowing recombination to occur between nucleic acids in cells. Many such in vivo recombination formats are set forth in the references noted above. Such formats optionally provide direct recombination between nucleic acids of interest or provide recombination between vectors viruses plasmids etc. comprising the nucleic acids of interest as well as other formats. Details regarding such procedures are found in the references noted above. Thus in vivo recombination methods can be employed to generate antibodies with desired properties for example by transfecting libraries of ScVF antibody encoding nucleic acids into a population of host cells where they are recombined and expressed for selection.

Whole genome recombination methods can also be used in which whole genomes of cells or other organisms are recombined optionally including spiking of the genomic recombination mixtures with desired library components e.g. genes corresponding to the pathways of the present invention . These methods have many applications including those in which the identity of a target gene is not known. Details on such methods are found e.g. in WO 98 31837 by del Cardayre et al. Evolution of Whole Cells and Organisms by Recursive Sequence Recombination and in e.g. PCT US99 15972 by del Cardayre et al. also entitled Evolution of Whole Cells and Organisms by Recursive Sequence Recombination. 

Synthetic recombination methods can also be used in which oligonucleotides corresponding to targets of interest are synthesized and reassembled in PCR or ligation reactions which include oligonucleotides which correspond to more than one parental nucleic acid thereby generating new recombined nucleic acids. Oligonucleotides can be made by standard nucleotide addition methods or can be made e.g. by tri nucleotide synthetic approaches. Details regarding such approaches are found in the references noted above including e.g. OLIGONUCLEOTIDE MEDIATED NUCLEIC ACID RECOMBINATION by Crameri et al. filed Sep. 28 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 408 392 and OLIGONUCLEOTIDE MEDIATED NUCLEIC ACID RECOMBINATION by Crameri et al. filed Jan. 18 2000 PCT US00 01203 USE OF CODON BASED OLIGONUCLEOTIDE SYNTHESIS FOR SYNTHETIC SHUFFLING by Welch et al. filed Sep. 28 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 408 393 METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov et al. filed Jan. 18 2000 PCT US00 01202 METHODS OF POPULATING DATA STRUCTURES FOR USE IN EVOLUTIONARY SIMULATIONS by Selifonov and Stemmer PCT US00 01138 filed Jan. 18 2000 and e.g. METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov et al. filed Jul. 18 2000 U.S. Ser. No. 09 618 579 .

In silico methods of recombination can be effected in which genetic algorithms are used in a computer to recombine sequence strings which correspond to homologous or even non homologous nucleic acids. The resulting recombined sequence strings are optionally converted into nucleic acids by synthesis of nucleic acids which correspond to the recombined sequences e.g. in concert with oligonucleotide synthesis gene reassembly techniques. This approach can generate random partially random or designed variants. Many details regarding in silico recombination including the use of genetic algorithms genetic operators and the like in computer systems combined with generation of corresponding nucleic acids and or proteins as well as combinations of designed nucleic acids and or proteins e.g. based on cross over site selection as well as designed pseudo random or random recombination methods are described in METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov et al. filed Jan. 18 2000 PCT US00 01202 METHODS OF POPULATING DATA STRUCTURES FOR USE IN EVOLUTIONARY SIMULATIONS by Selifonov and Stemmer PCT US00 01138 filed Jan. 18 2000 and e.g. METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov et al. filed Jul. 18 2000 U.S. Ser. No. 09 618 579 . Extensive details regarding in silico recombination methods are found in these applications. This methodology is generally applicable to the present invention in providing for recombination of antibody encoding sequences in silico and or the generation of corresponding nucleic acids or proteins.

Many methods of accessing natural diversity e.g. by hybridization of diverse nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments to single stranded templates followed by polymerization and or ligation to regenerate full length sequences optionally followed by degradation of the templates and recovery of the resulting modified nucleic acids can be similarly used. In one method employing a single stranded template the fragment population derived from the genomic library ies is annealed with partial or often approximately full length ssDNA or RNA corresponding to the opposite strand. Assembly of complex chimeric genes from this population is then mediated by nuclease base removal of non hybridizing fragment ends polymerization to fill gaps between such fragments and subsequent single stranded ligation. The parental polynucleotide strand can be removed by digestion e.g. if RNA or uracil containing magnetic separation under denaturing conditions if labeled in a manner conducive to such separation and other available separation purification methods. Alternatively the parental strand is optionally co purified with the chimeric strands and removed during subsequent screening and processing steps. Additional details regarding this approach are found e.g. in SINGLE STRANDED NUCLEIC ACID TEMPLATE MEDIATED RECOMBINATION AND NUCLEIC ACID FRAGMENT ISOLATION by Affholter U.S. Ser. No. 60 186 482 filed Mar. 2 2000.

In another approach single stranded molecules are converted to double stranded DNA dsDNA and the dsDNA molecules are bound to a solid support by ligand mediated binding. After separation of unbound DNA the selected DNA molecules are released from the support and introduced into a suitable host cell to generate a library enriched sequences which hybridize to the probe. A library produced in this manner provides a desirable substrate for further diversification using any of the procedures described herein.

Any of the preceding general recombination formats can be practiced in a reiterative fashion e.g. one or more cycles of mutation recombination or other diversity generation methods optionally followed by one or more selection methods to generate a more diverse set of recombinant nucleic acids.

Mutagenesis employing polynucleotide chain termination methods have also been proposed see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 965 408 Method of DNA reassembly by interrupting synthesis to Short and the references above and can be applied to the present invention. In this approach double stranded DNAs corresponding to one or more genes sharing regions of sequence similarity are combined and denatured in the presence or absence of primers specific for the gene. The single stranded polynucleotides are then annealed and incubated in the presence of a polymerase and a chain terminating reagent e.g. ultraviolet gamma or X ray irradiation ethidium bromide or other intercalators DNA binding proteins such as single strand binding proteins transcription activating factors or histones polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons trivalent chromium or a trivalent chromium salt or abbreviated polymerization mediated by rapid thermocycling and the like resulting in the production of partial duplex molecules. The partial duplex molecules e.g. containing partially extended chains are then denatured and reannealed in subsequent rounds of replication or partial replication resulting in polynucleotides which share varying degrees of sequence similarity and which are diversified with respect to the starting population of DNA molecules. Optionally the products or partial pools of the products can be amplified at one or more stages in the process. Polynucleotides produced by a chain termination method such as described above are suitable substrates for any other described recombination format.

Diversity also can be generated in nucleic acids or populations of nucleic acids using a recombinational procedure termed incremental truncation for the creation of hybrid enzymes ITCHY described in Ostermeier et al. 1999 A combinatorial approach to hybrid enzymes independent of DNA homology 17 1205. This approach can be used to generate an initial a library of variants which can optionally serve as a substrate for one or more in vitro or in vivo recombination methods. See also Ostermeier et al. 1999 Combinatorial Protein Engineering by Incremental Truncation 96 3562 67 Ostermeier et al. 1999 Incremental Truncation as a Strategy in the Engineering of Novel Biocatalysts 7 2139 44.

Mutational methods which result in the alteration of individual nucleotides or groups of contiguous or non contiguous nucleotides can be favorably employed to introduce nucleotide diversity into the antibody sequences of the present invention. Many mutagenesis methods are found in the above cited references additional details regarding mutagenesis methods can be found in following which can also be applied to the present invention.

For example error prone PCR can be used to generate nucleic acid variants. Using this technique PCR is performed under conditions where the copying fidelity of the DNA polymerase is low such that a high rate of point mutations is obtained along the entire length of the PCR product. Examples of such techniques are found in the references above and e.g. in Leung et al. 1989 1 11 15 and Caldwell et al. 1992 2 28 33. Similarly assembly PCR can be used in a process which involves the assembly of a PCR product from a mixture of small DNA fragments. A large number of different PCR reactions can occur in parallel in the same reaction mixture with the products of one reaction priming the products of another reaction.

Oligonucleotide directed mutagenesis can be used to introduce site specific mutations in a nucleic acid sequence of interest. Examples of such techniques are found in the references above and e.g. in Reidhaar Olson et al. 1988 241 53 57. Similarly cassette mutagenesis can be used in a process that replaces a small region of a double stranded DNA molecule with a synthetic oligonucleotide cassette that differs from the native sequence. The oligonucleotide can contain e.g. completely and or partially randomized native sequence s .

Recursive ensemble mutagenesis is a process in which an algorithm for protein mutagenesis is used to produce diverse populations of phenotypically related mutants members of which differ in amino acid sequence. This method uses a feedback mechanism to monitor successive rounds of combinatorial cassette mutagenesis. Examples of this approach are found in Arkin Youvan 1992 89 7811 7815.

Exponential ensemble mutagenesis can be used for generating combinatorial libraries with a high percentage of unique and functional mutants. Small groups of residues in a sequence of interest are randomized in parallel to identify at each altered position amino acids which lead to functional proteins. Examples of such procedures are found in Delegrave Youvan 1993 11 1548 1552.

In vivo mutagenesis can be used to generate random mutations in any cloned DNA of interest by propagating the DNA e.g. in a strain of that carries mutations in one or more of the DNA repair pathways. These mutator strains have a higher random mutation rate than that of a wild type parent. Propagating the DNA in one of these strains will eventually generate random mutations within the DNA. Such procedures are described in the references noted above.

Other procedures for introducing diversity into a genome e.g. a bacterial fungal animal or plant genome can be used in conjunction with the above described and or referenced methods. For example in addition to the methods above techniques have been proposed which produce nucleic acid multimers suitable for transformation into a variety of species see e.g. Schellenberger U.S. Pat. No. 5 756 316 and the references above . Transformation of a suitable host with such multimers consisting of genes that are divergent with respect to one another e.g. derived from natural diversity or through application of site directed mutagenesis error prone PCR passage through mutagenic bacterial strains and the like provides a source of nucleic acid diversity for DNA diversification e.g. by an in vivo recombination process as indicated above.

Alternatively a multiplicity of monomeric polynucleotides sharing regions of partial sequence similarity can be transformed into a host species and recombined in vivo by the host cell. Subsequent rounds of cell division can be used to generate libraries members of which include a single homogenous population or pool of monomeric polynucleotides. Alternatively the monomeric nucleic acid can be recovered by standard techniques e.g. PCR and or cloning and recombined in any of the recombination formats including recursive recombination formats described above.

Methods for generating multispecies expression libraries have been described in addition to the reference noted above see e.g. Peterson et al. 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 431 METHODS FOR GENERATING AND SCREENING NOVEL METABOLIC PATHWAYS and Thompson et al. 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 485 METHODS FOR GENERATING AND SCREENING NOVEL METABOLIC PATHWAYS and their use to identify protein activities of interest has been proposed In addition to the references noted above see Short 1999 U.S. Pat. No. 5 958 672 PROTEIN ACTIVITY SCREENING OF CLONES HAVING DNA FROM UNCULTIVATED MICROORGANISMS . Multispecies expression libraries include in general libraries comprising cDNA or genomic sequences from a plurality of species or strains operably linked to appropriate regulatory sequences in an expression cassette. The cDNA and or genomic sequences are optionally randomly ligated to further enhance diversity. The vector can be a shuttle vector suitable for transformation and expression in more than one species of host organism e.g. bacterial species eukaryotic cells. In some cases the library is biased by preselecting sequences which encode a protein of interest or which hybridize to a nucleic acid of interest. Any such libraries can be provided as substrates for any of the methods herein described.

The above described procedures have been largely directed to increasing nucleic acid and or encoded protein diversity. However in many cases not all of the diversity is useful e.g. functional and contributes merely to increasing the background of variants that must be screened or selected to identify the few favorable variants. In some applications it is desirable to preselect or prescreen libraries e.g. an amplified library a genomic library a cDNA library a normalized library etc. or other substrate nucleic acids prior to diversification e.g. by recombination based mutagenesis procedures or to otherwise bias the substrates towards nucleic acids that encode functional products. For example in the case of antibody engineering it is possible to bias the diversity generating process toward antibodies with functional antigen binding sites by taking advantage of in vivo recombination events prior to manipulation by any of the described methods. For example recombined CDRs derived from B cell cDNA libraries can be amplified and assembled into framework regions e.g. Jirholt et al. 1998 Exploiting sequence space shuffling in vivo formed complementarity determining regions into a master framework 215 471 prior to diversifying according to any of the methods described herein.

Libraries can be biased towards nucleic acids which encode proteins with desirable enzyme activities. For example after identifying a clone from a library which exhibits a specified activity the clone can be mutagenized using any known method for introducing DNA alterations. A library comprising the mutagenized homologues is then screened for a desired activity which can be the same as or different from the initially specified activity. An example of such a procedure is proposed in Short 1999 U.S. Pat. No. 5 939 250 for PRODUCTION OF ENZYMES HAVING DESIRED ACTIVITIES BY MUTAGENESIS. Desired activities can be identified by any method known in the art. For example WO 99 10539 proposes that gene libraries can be screened by combining extracts from the gene library with components obtained from metabolically rich cells and identifying combinations which exhibit the desired activity. It has also been proposed e.g. WO 98 58085 that clones with desired activities can be identified by inserting bioactive substrates into samples of the library and detecting bioactive fluorescence corresponding to the product of a desired activity using a fluorescent analyzer e.g. a flow cytometry device a CCD a fluorometer or a spectrophotometer.

Libraries can also be biased towards nucleic acids which have specified characteristics e.g. hybridization to a selected nucleic acid probe. For example application WO 99 10539 proposes that polynucleotides encoding a desired activity e.g. an enzymatic activity for example a lipase an esterase a protease a glycosidase a glycosyl transferase a phosphatase a kinase an oxygenase a peroxidase a hydrolase a hydratase a nitrilase a transaminase an amidase or an acylase can be identified from among genomic DNA sequences in the following manner. Single stranded DNA molecules from a population of genomic DNA are hybridized to a ligand conjugated probe. The genomic DNA can be derived from either a cultivated or uncultivated microorganism or from an environmental sample. Alternatively the genomic DNA can be derived from a multicellular organism or a tissue derived therefrom. Second strand synthesis can be conducted directly from the hybridization probe used in the capture with or without prior release from the capture medium or by a wide variety of other strategies known in the art. Alternatively the isolated single stranded genomic DNA population can be fragmented without further cloning and used directly in e.g. a recombination based approach that employs a single stranded template as described above.

 Non Stochastic methods of generating nucleic acids and polypeptides are alleged in Short Non Stochastic Generation of Genetic Vaccines and Enzymes WO 00 46344. These methods including proposed non stochastic polynucleotide reassembly and site saturation mutagenesis methods can be applied to the present invention as well.

It will readily be appreciated that any of the above described techniques suitable for enriching a library prior to diversification can also be used to screen the products or libraries of products produced by the diversity generating methods.

Kits for mutagenesis library construction and other diversity generation methods are also commercially available. For example kits are available from e.g. Stratagene e.g. QuickChange site directed mutagenesis kit and Chameleon double stranded site directed mutagenesis kit Bio Can Scientific Bio Rad e.g. using the Kunkel method described above Boehringer Mannheim Corp. Clonetech Laboratories DNA Technologies Epicentre Technologies e.g. 5 prime 3 prime kit Genpak Inc Lemargo Inc Life Technologies Gibco BRL New England Biolabs Pharmacia Biotech Promega Corp. Quantum Biotechnologies Amersham International plc e.g. using the Eckstein method above and Anglian Biotechnology Ltd e.g. using the Carter Winter method above .

The above references provide many mutational formats including recombination recursive recombination recursive mutation and combinations of recombination with other forms of mutagenesis as well as many modifications of these formats. Regardless of the diversity generation format that is used the nucleic acids of the invention can be recombined with each other or with related or even unrelated sequences to produce a diverse set of recombinant nucleic acids including e.g. sets of homologous nucleic acids as well as corresponding polypeptides.

The recombining steps can be performed in vivo in vitro or in silico as described in more detail in the references above. Also included in the invention is a cell containing any resulting recombinant nucleic acid nucleic acid libraries produced by recursive recombination of the nucleic acids set forth herein and populations of cells vectors viruses plasmids or the like comprising the library or comprising any recombinant nucleic acid resulting from recombination or recursive recombination of a nucleic acid as set forth herein with another such nucleic acid or an additional nucleic acid. Corresponding sequence strings in a database present in a computer system or computer readable medium are a feature of the invention.

To maximize the probability of recovering beneficial recombinants several variations of recombination and mutagenesis procedures can be compared. Such variations include a recombining only positive clones e.g. low diversity shuffling b recombining positive clones with all clones from the parent library e.g. high diversity shuffling c recombining positive clones with other members of the Ig super family for example with T cell receptor genes e.g. family shuffling especially e.g. where added functionality is desirable e.g. in providing antibodies with unique functions such as enzymatic activity d spiking the recombination reaction with oligos encoding partially randomized CDRs Crameriet al. 1996 Construction and evolution of antibody phage libraries by DNA shuffling 2 100 2 e serial passage of recombinant e.g. shuffled clones through an mutator strain e.g. mutD5 Low et al. 1996 Mimicking somatic hypermutation affinity maturation of antibodies displayed on bacteriophage using a bacterial mutator strain 260 359 68 f recombining e.g. shuffling clones derived from a second functionally related library g combining recombination e.g. shuffling techniques with standard cloning and mutagenesis techniques by including recombinant DNA molecules produced by any standard technique among the nucleic acids being diversified e.g. shuffled. For example recombined CDRs derived from B cell cDNA libraries can be amplified and assembled into framework regions e.g. Jirholt et al. 1998 Exploiting sequence space shuffling in vivo formed complementarity determining regions into a master framework 215 471 476 prior to DNA recombination e.g. shuffling according to any of the methods described herein or h any combination of the above.

The methods of the present invention can readily be applied to the development and optimization of antibodies to fulfill a wide variety of functions determined largely by the selection of the target antigen or antigens. It is possible through the selection of appropriate target antigens to generate and evolve antibodies as treatment candidates for a number of human diseases. For example diseases which result from a disregulation of the immune system such as chronic inflammatory diseases e.g. lupus erythematosus rheumatoid arthritis and diabetes and allergies can respond favorably to antibodies which target components of the immune regulatory network e.g. T cell and B cell surface determinants superantigens MHC class II interferon gamma alpha interferon and leucointegrin. The invention also provides for the development of optimized and humanized antibody reagents for the treatment of acute autoimmune disorders such as rhesus factor induced hydrops fetalis through the generation of improved recombinant anti rh antibodies.

In addition antibodies directed against other targets such as markers isolated from vascular endothelium or activated epithelium have potential in modulating the immune response. Similarly antibodies to small molecule immunemodulators such as nitrotyrosine can play a role in regulating immune system disorders. Antibodies raised and optimized against allergens for example dust mite allergen offer a potential therapeutic agent in the treatment of common allergies.

Novel and improved antibodies directed against Lymphocyte cell surface receptors and ligands e.g. B7 CD80 CD86 CD28 and CTLA 4 Adhesion Molecules e.g. LFA 1 Pgp 1 VLA 4 VCAM 1 ICAM 1 etc. interleukins and their receptors e.g. 11 2 IL 2R etc. cytokines interferon gamma tumor necrosis factor alpha interferon transforming growth factor beta etc. are all a feature of the invention. Likewise antibodies against Cluster of Differentiation CD antigens for example CD25 CD20 CD28 CD18 CD23 CD22 CD30 CD44 CD150 and their receptors e.g. CD45R are all suitable substrates for the methods of the invention.

The present invention also provides for the derivation and evolution of novel cancer immunotherapeutic agents as noted supra. Pan carcinoma markers as well as markers expressed on the surface of specific tumor types e.g. bladder breast prostate ovary melanoma glioma lymphoma and colorectal carcinoma etc. can be isolated and used as described herein to generate monoclonal antibodies. Similarly well known tumor growth factors regulatory molecules and markers including TNF alpha interferon gamma ras ErbB2 ErbB 3 R adrenomedulin Fas EGF EGF R rat neuT Flk 1 receptor vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF nsclc pancarcinoma markers carcinoembryonic antigen CEA human chorionic gonadotrophin HCG alphafetoprotein AFP are all suitable as targets for the antibodies of the invention.

Neurological disorders such as Alzheimers disease can be addressed using the methods and antibodies of the invention for example by developing optimized antibodies against beta amyloid aggregates. Antibodies useful in the treatment of such chronic degenerative disorders as Multiple Sclerosis can be developed using antibodies selected by the methods of the invention to stimulate remyelination. Antibodies of the invention can also be optimized for use in the treatment of drug overdose and toxicity e.g. cocaine antidepressents. Reagents useful for the diagnosis of neurological disorders are also a feature of the invention. For example antibodies directed against neural components such as HexosaminidaseA are valuable in the diagnosis of specific neurological disorders e.g. Tay Sachs disease.

Humanized antibodies optimized to bind proteins involved in lipid homeostasis such as Cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP low density lipoprotein LDL and the atherosclerotic plaque marker Z2D3 can readily be made by the methods of the invention and have potential utility in the treatment of diagnosis and treatment of hyperlipidemia and arteriosclerosis. Similarly antibodies to human adipocytes have potential in the treatment of obesity. Antibodies developed by the methods of the invention and directed against Type II phospholipase A2 are a possible reagent in the treatment of myocardial infarction and antibodies against fibring have potential in the treatment of clotting disorders.

The present invention also provides for antibodies useful in the treatment of infectious diseases including those caused by viral pathogens e.g. Herpes Simplex Virus Herpes zoster Hepatitis A B C Cytalomegalovirus Respiratory syncitial virus rabies Human Papilloma Virus Varicella zoster B19 Parvovirus and viral agents causing the common cold among others. An aspect of the invention relates to the coevolution of antibodies against HIV inlcuding epitopes derived from envelope proteins and including p17 gp120 gp41 p24. Antibodies can also be developed that are useful in the treatment of infectious diseases caused by bacterial agents including enterococci e.g. verotoxin flagellum sp. sp. and tetanus. Candidates for the treatment of fungal infections include ubiquitous heat shock proteins e.g. the hsp90 of which can be selected for high affinity binding in spite of the limited antigenicity of the target antigen.

In addition to antibodies useful in the treatment or diagnosis of specific disorders as enumerated above and further enumerated in Tables 1 and 2 it will be clear that such various subsets of antibody classes as anti idiotype antibodies mimetic antibodies anti codon antibodies bifunctional antibodies diabodies tribodies tetrabodies single chain antibodies single arm composite antibodies monovalent antibodies humanized antibodies primatized antibodies Trigger antibodies antibody aggregates and antibody conjugates are all features of the invention. Antibody conjugates include antibodies conjugated to protein moieties e.g. enzymes nerve growth factor chemotherapeutic or antiproliferative agents genistein doxorubicin calicheamicin MX DPTA maytansine mitomycin etc. radio conjugates e.g. rhenium 186 rhenium 188 astatine 211 technetium 99 indium 111 and toxins e.g. PE38 and PE40 truncated exotoxin blocked ricin . Also included are antibodies conjugated to bioactive moieties such as vasoactive agents and moieties which facilitate transport of the antibody across membranes or into the nucleus. In addition antibodies conjugated to non biological particles such as gold and magnetic nanoparticles MNP e.g. ranging from 10 50 nm in size are a feature of the invention.

Tables 1 and 2 below provides a description of a variety of antibodies their origins source target or diagnostic use and if available accession number. In Table 1 the H column relates to whether the antibodies are humanized. Any of the antibodies in the Tables as well as any of those noted herein can be modified according to the methods of the invention. For example the antibodies can be diversified and selected e.g. shuffled to improve activity or specificity to reduce immunogenicity e.g. by humanization or the like. In Table 1 the majority of antibodies are monclonal antibodies although some of those presented are polyclonal. The present invention relates to the diversification for example by nucleic acid shuffling of both monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies and polyclonal antibodies can be converted to polyclonal antibodies by standard methods.

One aspect of the invention provides methods of improving an antibody of Table 1 or Table 2. In the methods a nucleic acid encoding an antibody of Table 1 or 2 or a homologue or fragment thereof is recombined with one or more additional antibody coding nucleic acid or homologue or fragment thereof. A fragment of a sequence for purposes of this disclosure is an actual fragment produced e.g. by nuclease digestion e.g. DNAse digestion mechanical shearing amplification etc. of the indicated parental nucleic acid or an oligonucleotide generated to include at least about 20 and typically about 40 or more nucleotides of the parental nucleic acid. In many recombination procedures noted in detail supra parental nucleic acids such as the nucleic acids encoding the enumerated nucleic antibodies above are fragmented hybridized with homologous nucleic acid fragments and the resulting hybridized nucleic acids extended using a polymerase. Other approaches such as in silico sequence recombination in silico shuffling and whole genome recombination whole genome shuffling e.g. in conjunction with libraries of the relevant nucleic acids can also be adopted.

In addition to the enumerated antibodies other antibodies generated against e.g. the targets used to generate the antibodies of Table 1 and 2 can also be used to generate new antibodies with similar activities. These antibodies are also desirably diversified e.g. shuffled using the techniques herein.

In one embodiment antibodies are produced using na ve libraries of human antibodies or from cells isolated from humans which are immunized with a target of interest e.g. cells isolated from patients suffering from a disease such as HIV infection or any other condition which results in production of antibodies to a target . For example any of the relevant targets can be used to screen na ve libraries of displayed antibodies e.g. na ve human libraries . Alternatively the targets can be used to elicit antibodies in animals such as mice or rabbits using standard methods see the references cited herein .

One common recombination format often referred to as family shuffling is practiced by recombining a selected nucleic acid with a homologous nucleic acid i.e. for purposes of this disclosure a nucleic acid with sufficient sequence similarity to permit physical recombination to occur between the nucleic acid at issue . Typically homologous nucleic acids are at least about 50 identical often 60 or more identical generally 70 or more identical and occasionally 80 90 or even 95 or more identical. Such homologous nucleic acids can be components of a phage display library or can result from immunization of one or more animal with a given antigen. Alternatively homlogous nucleic acids can be members of gene families selected from the Immunoglobulin Superfamily e.g. T cell receptor genes. Such nucleic acids provide a significant source of diversity in the antigen binding domain as well as contributing novel functional attributes.

As noted any appropriate selection method in the art can be used to optimize antibody selection following diversification e.g. by nucleic acid shuffling procedures . The following approaches provide examples of specific selection approaches.

There are several different approaches for affinity selection. One method uses soluble antigen as a competitor in the selection reaction. If the concentration of competitor is near the KD of the parent clone then clones with increased affinity will be preferentially bound to the fixed antigen. Another approach is to reduce the concentration of matrix bound antigen to a level at or below the KD of the parent clone thus creating a preferential selection for higher affinity mutants. To avoid masking of epitopes by random binding of antigen to a matrix selection can be performed in solution Hawkins et al. 1992 Selection of phage antibodies by binding affinity. Mimicking affinity maturation 226 889 96 . In this case Fab phage bind to biotinylated antigen in solution which allows capture by streptavidin coated magnetic beads. An entirely different approach allows unrestricted binding of phage to an antigen bound matrix and higher affinity clones are selected by elution under increasing stringent conditions Schier and Marks 1996 Efficient in vitro affinity maturation of phage antibodies using BIAcore guided selections 7 97 105 . In an alternative approach a yeast or bacterial display system is used and binding to a fluorescent antigen of interest is evaluated by flow cytometry. Progressively decreasing antigen concentrations into the picomolar range results in selection of clones with increasing affinity.

Usually affinity maturation is sufficient to produce an antibody that binds tightly to only one epitope on the desired antigen. Binding specificity can be monitored by ELISA assays against related antigens by microscopic assays of labeled antibodies on whole cells by competitive phage selection see e.g. Dennis M. et al. 1994 Kunitz domain inhibitors of tissue factor factor VIIa. II. Potent and specific inhibitors by competitive phage selection. 2 269 35 22137 44 or other soluble competition assays e.g. Cunningham B. et al 1994 Production of an atrial natriuretic peptide variant that is specific for type A receptor. Jun 1 13 11 2508 15 orby specific in vivo effects.

Whenever mutagenesis is employed there is a chance that the resulting molecule will be recognized as foreign by the human immune system. Repeated backcrossing of an evolved antibody with a human clone by DNA recursive sequence recombination e.g. shuffling can reduce immunogenicity see also Crameriet al. 1996 Construction and evolution of antibody phage libraries by DNA shuffling 2 100 2 .

Furthermore non human antibodies can be humanized by repeated recombination e.g. shuffling of coding nucleic acids with human antibody genes e.g. with libraries of human antibodies.

Additionally antibodies can be modified to eliminate human MHC class II binding peptides within the antibody thus reducing the ability of human T cells to recognize fragments of the antibody as foreign. In cases where elimination of class II binding peptides results in a reduction in affinity the affinity of the antibody for antigen can be improved using e.g. DNA shuffling or other diversity generating and selection procedures as described herein.

Stability of an antibody a variety of buffer conditions as well as after repeated cycles of denaturation and renaturation is of significant utility in the commercial production and application of antibody reagents. Candidate antibodies can be evaluated for their antigen binding and other properties after exposure to e.g. buffers of different ionic strength and pH denaturing agents. Furthermore activity can be evaluated after multiple cycles of denaturation and renaturation as well as after purification by any of a number of methods. Such evaluations can include among other parameters assessment of folding rate and efficiency. Other desirable attributes such as column binding on off rates column durability low non specific binding and the like are also suitable for selection by the methods of the present invention.

Screening or selection strategies can be designed to optimize effector function as well as antigen binding. In these cases assays which evaluate the constant or Fc region are applied. Such assays include in vitro assays e.g. complement fixation complement mediated cell lysis Fc receptor binding as well as in vivo assays conducted in model systems most frequently the mouse. In vivo assays which measure stability via serum half life clearance of toxins or other small molecules or resistance to a pathogenic challenge can be used to select antibodies with enhanced functions.

Antibody ligand binding in solution is often inadequate for neutralization or therapeutic application. Thus while improvements gained in affinity and specificity can drastically enhance binding properties these improvements do not necessarily result in an antibody which provides enhanced functional capabilities. For example to effectively destroy a tumor cell an antibody must first be able to bind an antigen on the tumor cell with high affinity and specificity. It must then be able to mediate destruction of the tumor cell bearing the antigen. One well known mechanism of antibody linked cell destruction is the complement mediated lysis pathway. This lysis process is initiated by the fixation of the C1q complement component by an antibody constant region or Fc.

In addition to binding complement components the Fc domains of the different antibody isotypes are bound by a family of Fc receptors which mediate such functional aspects as opsonization and phagocytosis and activation of natural killer cells in antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC . Numerous assays known in the art are available to evaluate the capacity of variant e.g. shuffled antibody and Fc domains to perform in one or more of these processes.

 a Targeting antigens to antigen presenting cells APCs . Antigen MAb fusions can be a powerful means for targeting antigens to antigen presenting cells such as dendritic cells DCs . A rapid specific and potent means of targeting antigens to professional APCs achieves a more rapid protective immune response and a more robust immune response for a given dose of antigen than is observed for standard immunizations. This effect is useful when rapid countermeasures are required such as when the antigen antibody fusion is used as a biological warfare counter agent or in an area of rapidly emerging disease or where delivery of antigen is limiting as in DNA immunization or novel antigen delivery devices such as transdermal patches.

For example the MAb N418 reacts specifically with an integrin present on murine DCs Metlay et al. 1990 The distinct leukocyte integrins of mouse spleen dendritic cells as identified with new hamster monoclonal antibodies 171 1753 71 . The VH and VL sequences from N418 can be cloned into an antibody phage display vector. Phage Fab are produced and used to immunize mice. Immunization with phage Fab is compared with wild type phage and differences in the onset time of the anti phage immune response could be monitored.

A human MAb that binds specifically to human DCs can then be produced. For example large na ve human libraries are panned against human DCs and specificity is monitored by cross reaction to other human cell types. If additional diversity is desirable then MAbs similar to the murine N418 could be generated recombined and or mutated e.g. shuffled screened on human DCs and then humanized for immunotherapy.

An alternative to MAb antigen fusions for targeted immunization could employ MAb phage antigen fusions. By creating fusions between antigen and the phage proteins pVII or pIX Gao et al. 1999 Making artificial antibodies a format for phage display of combinatorial heterodimeric arrays 96 6025 30 antigens can be displayed on the opposite end of the phage with respect to the gIII fused FAbs. If the displayed FAb is specific to DCs then the fused antigen can be effectively delivered. This process has the advantage that MAbs need not be subcloned into new vectors to create MAb antigen fusions.

 b Targeting of immunostimulatory sequences to APCs. Filamentous bacteriophage such as M13 carry a circular single stranded DNA ssDNA molecule encased by coat proteins. Targeting Fab phage to APCs affords a novel method of delivering phage DNA to lymphocytes. Delivered DNA can serve an immunostimulatory function e.g. as a vaccine or therapeutic agent as a result of certain sequence motifs that it may contain. Portions of the phage genome could be replaced with known immunostimulatory sequences ISS or by sequences that have been optimized for ISS activity byrecombination or mutagenesis procedures such as DNA shuffling. Typically when oligonucleotides are used as ISS agents they are prepared with phosphorothioate bonds to increase their in vivo stability. Phage can be grown in sodium thiophosphate to add phosphorothioate bonds to their DNA.

 c Isolation and evolution of novel tumor specific MAbs. Antibody phage display has been successfully used to isolate tumor specific Mabs Kupsch et al. 1999 Isolation of human tumor specific antibodies by selection of an antibody phage library on melanoma cells 5 925 31 . The technology platform herein can be used to generate novel MAbs specific to any tumor type. MAbs can be evolved for increased binding affinity specificity and reduced antigenicity.

Antibodies are antagonists of non host molecules. MAbs can be generated against neutralizing epitopes of infectious agents optimized by DNA diversification and selection procedures e.g. nucleic acid shuffling methods and used for passive immunotherapy. MAbs are currently being evaluated for passive immunotherapy of HIV Parren and Burton 1997 Antibodies against HIV 1 from phage display libraries mapping of an immune response and progress towards antiviral immunotherapy 65 18 56 HSV Protein Design Labs Inc. Hepatitis B Protein Design Labs Inc. and others.

Major efforts are underway to design MAbs that inhibit normal cellular functions for therapeutic benefit such as blocking specific receptors or their ligands. In fact the majority of all MAbs currently in development fall into this category. One example is anti TNF alpha therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. MAb therapies currently exist Infliximab Centocor Inc. but can be improved by optimizing MAbs by molecular evolution as described herein.

Ligand induced dimerization or oligomerization of receptors is a well established mechanism of signal transduction Castellino and Chao 1996 Trans signaling by cytokine and growth factor receptors 7 297 302 . Many clinically important receptors utilize this mechanism including growth factor receptors G protein coupled receptors cytokine receptors and trophic factor receptors. Because antibodies contain at least two identical antigen binding sites Mabs can mimic the oligomer inducing signal transduction abilities of the native ligand. Using phage display MAbs are selected to bind to selected receptors and evolved to enhance the activity of the native ligand. Further evolution can be performed to improve variables such as serum half life specificity or immunogenicity.

There is a pressing need for improved methods to detect a variety of antigens. One example is the detection of biological warfare BW agents.

The antibody phage display platform herein generates MAbs to many conceivable antigens such as BW agents and directed evolution e.g. recombination and mutagenesis procedures such as nucleic acid shuffling in combination with appropriate selection procedures optimizes their diagnostic capabilities. There is a considerable amount of interest in this field as of 1999 DARPA and the DOD have pledged over 30 million to private companies to develop BW detection systems BioCentury 7 29 the most promising of which are antibody based Hock 1997 Antibodies for immunosensors A review 347 177 186 . An extension of this work is to optimize clinical diagnostics for established HIV hepatitis B herpes etc. and emerging hepatitis C viral encephalitis ebola etc. diseases.

Accessing non human diversity. The references herein describe a variety of recombination e.g. shuffling protocols in which families of related sequence are recombined directly as in DNAse mediated procedures or indirectly as in oligonucleotide and in silico shuffling procedures . These protocols are adapted to the present invention by recombining e.g. shuffling antibody genes or homologues from related species or alleles.

The repertoire of V genes from common donors human mouse rabbit can be expanded by recombining e.g. shuffling with V gene libraries from a wide range of vertebrate species shown to have an adaptive immune system Litman et al. 1993 Phylogenetic diversification of immunoglobulin genes and the antibody repertoire 10 60 72 . Immunoglobulin genes have now been sequenced from several uncommon vertebrates including camel Arbabi Ghahroudi et al. 1997 Selection and identification of single domain antibody fragments from camel heavy chain antibodies 414 521 6 possum Belovet al. 1999 Isolation and sequence of a cDNA coding for the heavy chain constant region of IgG from the Australian brushtail possum Trichosurus vulpecula 36 535 41 chicken Davies et al. 1995 Selection of specific phage display antibodies using libraries derived from chicken immunoglobulin genes 186 125 35 Yamanaka et al. 1996 Chicken monoclonal antibody isolated by a phage display system 157 1156 62 cow O Brien et al. 1999 Generation of native bovine mAbs by phage display 96 640 5 salmon Hordvik et al. 1999 Molecular cloning and phylogenetic analysis of the Atlantic salmon immunoglobulin D gene 50 202 10 and many others.

Accessing the diversity of the Ig superfamily. Sequences from other members of the Ig superfamily can be cloned and recombined or recursively recombined e.g. shuffled with existing MAbs to provide additional diversity. A specific example is the use of sequences from the gene family ICAM 1 CD54 that binds to lymphocyte function associated antigen 1 LFA 1 CD11a CD18 complement receptor 1 MAC 1 CD11b CD18 and p150 95 CD11c CD18 . More generally sequences are derived from immunoglobulin homology domains of MHC class II genes or from many cytokine receptors known to share broad homology with Igs. Where sequences are not sufficiently homologous for direct recombination indirect recombination methods such as oligonucleotide or in silico shuffling can be used.

The T cell receptor genes provide a particularly useful source of diversity. Like the antibody genes themselves T cell receptors are encoded by a large multigene family which is subject to recombination in the generation of an intact T cell receptor. Also similarly to antibodies the T cell receptor has antigen binding as a primary function. To make use of this diversity two general approaches are used. T cell receptor gene sequences can be provided as substrates for recombination and mutagenesis e.g. shuffling reactions as described above. Alternatively T cell receptor genes are used to create display libraries which are selected for binding to a target of interest. The selected genes can then be recombined with antibody gene segments to produce antibodies with novel binding specificities. In addition T cell receptor libraries are useful in the selection and optimization of novel improved T cell receptors which bind to a target of interest.

T bodies. Antibody genes have been used to replace the T cell receptor in order to allow T cells to be activated by binding to for example a cell surface protein via and antigen antibody interaction rather than an MHC TCR interaction Eshhar 1997 Tumor specific T bodies towards clinical application 45 131 136 . Since MAbs are not naturally optimized for this application recursive DNA recombination procedures e.g. nucleic acid shuffling areparticularly useful for improving upon the reactivity of MAbs when fused to the TCR to improve upon the therapeutic uses of such T bodies.

The methods of the present invention provide a means of modifying the effector domain as well as the antigen binding domain of antibodies. The heavy chain constant region consisting of the CH2 and CH3 domains and corresponding to the Fc domain derived by pepsin digestion of an antibody molecule is the mediator of antibody effector function. The humoral immune response of which antibody mediated adaptive immunity is one component involves numerous other factors for the neutralization and elimination of pathogens. On one hand the complement cascade directly and indirectly mediates the lysis of such pathogens as bacteria. In the classical pathway the Clq complement component binds directly to the Fc domain of bound IgM or IgG resulting in the activation of a serine protease component. Proteolytic fragments of downstream complement molecules result in opsonization and subsequent phagocytosis and in stimulating a local inflammatory response. In the alternative complement pathway complement components recognized by specific complement receptors and bound antibody recognized by Fc receptors synergistically facilitate uptake and destruction of bacterial pathogens by macrophages and other phagocytic cells.

Various Fc receptors are present on non antigen binding cells of the immune system such as macrophages neutrophils natural killer cells mast cells and eosinophils. Through binding of Fc receptors the functional attributes of the different cells bearing them are brought into play during an immune response. By increasing or altering the affinity of binding between an antibody and one or more of the various Fc receptors the efficacy of an antibody can be enhanced. For example by altering the binding coefficient of an IgG subclass for the Fc receptor the concentration of antibody required for a therapeutic application can be decreased. In recent clinical trials of the therapeutic antibody OKT3 prevention and treatment results were disappointing Woodle et al. 1999 15 608 . The effectiveness of this molecule was likely limited by the T cell activation properties of its Fc region. Fc variants with decreased Fc receptor binding activity can rectify these poor results. The recombination and mutagenesis procedures described herein e.g. DNA shuffling provides a method to produce and isolate such variants.

Fc fusion proteins i.e. immunoadhesins are being created and evaluated for a number of disease indications. Fc variants such as shuffled Fc variants with altered properties produced by the methods of the invention can be selected to improve these therapeutic reagents. For example Christen et al. 1999 60 774 describe results of clinical studies of a TNF receptor Fc fusion protein in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The patients develop antibodies to the Fc region. The methods of the present invention are useful for generating recombinant e.g. shuffled Fc regions with decreased immunogenicity. Antibodies with reduced immunogenicity e.g. that are humanized or otherwise lack B or T cell epitopes involved in the host immune response can be selected for use as therapeutic reagents thereby avoiding or minimizing the host antibody response. Alternatively Fc variants can be isolated that elicit a stronger Ab response or modulate the response in other desirable ways.

In another study IL 2 Fc fusion proteins were investigated for the treatment of autoimmune disease. The IL 2 moiety is proposed to target recently activated T cells while the Fc region is thought to result in host T cell killing by both antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity and complement dependent cytotoxicity. The methods of the present invention provide a means to improve both types of Fc mediated killing function of the IL 2 or other Fc fusion proteins e.g. by increasing Fc receptor binding efficacy or increasing activation of complement.

In yet another application Yuan et al. 1999 14 172 propose that an increased concentration of soluble Fc gamma RIII in periodontal lesions may limit phagocytosis and immune homeostasis in this disease. The DNA diversification e.g. shuffling techniques of the present invention can be used to generate and select therapeutic antibodies with reduced binding affinity of Fc receptors providing an alteration in binding kinetics similar to that seen with administration of soluble Fc receptors. Production of antibodies deficient in Fc gamma RIII binding that result in a reduction in phagocytosis offer a potential reagent useful in treatment of periodontal lesions.

To modify the Fc portion of an antibody CH2 CH3 domains as either a fragment or in the context of an intact antibody can be recombined and or mutated e.g. shuffled according to any of the formats discussed herein. For example recursive sequence recombination procedures such as nucleic acid shuffling can be performed on nucleic acids corresponding to the Fc domain or to the entire antibody molecule. In the former case an expression cassette designed to accept the CH2 CH3 region into a cloning site can be used to provide and or express an intact antibody molecule. Screening can be performed by assaying any one of a number of biologically relevant functions e.g. neutralization opsonization phagocytosis complement mediated lysis antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity in vivo or by in vitro correlates which can be performed in a high throughput format.

For example to select for improvements in the ability of an antibody to activate complement an expression cassette incorporating an antibody antigen binding domain specific for a bacterial pathogen can be used. CH2 CH3 domain nucleic acids can be cloned into the cassette to give rise to antibodies specific for the pathogen with a variety of constant regions and an identical antigen binding specificity. After recombination by any of the methods previously discussed the resulting antibodies can be evaluated by a number of in vivo and in vitro methods. Pools of antibodies can be injected into an experimental host such as a mouse which is then subjected to a lethal pathogenic challenge. Improved survival rates conferred by the antibodies can readily be assessed. Alternatively or in combination in vitro assays measuring lysis of bacterially infected cells in vitro by antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity can be performed. High throughput formats for measuring Clq binding and activation of the proteolytic components of complement can also be utilized. Similarly screening methods can be employed which evaluate Fc receptor binding serum half life phagocytosis or other functions specific to the antibody or application of interest.

Detailed methods for known ways of preparing chimeric humanized antibodies can be found e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 482 856 and in a variety of standard texts including e.g. Borrebaeck ed 1995 2Freeman and Company NY Borrebaeck McCafferty et al. 1996 IRL at Oxford Press Oxford England McCafferty and Paul 1995 Humana Press Towata N.J. Paul .

Humanized antibody molecules of the present invention typically include 1 CDRs of light and heavy chain variable domains from a non human antibody and 2 light and or heavy chain variable domain framework regions derived from and incorporating the sequence diversity of human light and heavy chain variable domain sequences of at least two different human subgroups groups families or classes of human light and or heavy chain molecules respectively.

Humanized antibodies are especially desirable in applications where the antibodies are used as therapeutics in vivo in human patients. Human antibodies consist of characteristically human immunoglobulin sequences. For example humanized antibodies can be produced in trioma cells. Genes encoding the antibodies are then cloned and expressed in other cells such as nonhuman mammalian cells. The general approach for producing human antibodies by trioma technology is described by Ostberg et al. 1983 2 361 367 Ostberg U.S. Pat. No. 4 634 664 and Engelman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 634 666. The antibody producing cell lines obtained by this method are called triomas because they are descended from three cells two human and one mouse. Triomas have been found to produce antibody more stably than ordinary hybridomas made from human cells.

In one useful embodiment this invention provides for fully humanized antibodies against a target. These can be produced by diversification e.g. by DNA shuffling or other recombination and or mutagenesis procedures of non human antibody genes followed by humanization by standard humanization methods e.g. in the references noted herein. In addition to such standard methods for humanization of antibodies the present invention provides additional mechanisms for humanizing antibodies utilizing DNA diversification e.g. shuffling methods.

For example the conversion of existing antibodies to more humanized forms can be performed directly by recombination methods such as nucleic acid shuffling. In particular using recursive sequence recombination procedures e.g. shuffling homologous nucleic acids are recombined as described above there are many different recombination and or mutagenesis formats including various shuffling formats . In the context of the present invention human libraries of antibody genes e.g. na ve or targeted libraries as noted above are recombined with the gene s for an antibody of interest and the products of the recombination are selected as noted in detail in the cited references herein it is occasionally useful to recombine nucleic acids for more than one cycle prior to selection and this approach is also appropriate herein . This process is recursively repeated resulting in new humanized antibodies which comprise amino acid regions corresponding to the starting antibody at positions which confer activity but which are otherwise humanized. Antibody coding nucleic acids can be sequenced and the information used to design additional recombination partners or to perform in silico recombination.

Briefly the procedure outlined below can be used to generate a humanized Ig heavy chain variable domain incorporating variant or recombinant e.g. shuffled murine CDR amino acid sequences and variant or recombinant Ig heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequences. A similar procedure can also be used to prepare a humanized Ig light chain variable domain made up of variant or recombinant murine Ig CDR amino acid sequences and variant or recombinant human Ig light chain variable domain framework amino acid sequences.

First a murine or other non human antibody of interest termed the donor antibody is selected. Typically selection is based on target binding characteristics. The CDR sequences for producing the immunoglobulins of the present invention can be derived from monoclonal antibodies or e.g. from antigen specific B cells capable of binding to the predetermined antigen and made by well known methods in any convenient mammalian source including e.g. mice hamsters rats rabbits dogs cats monkeys or other vertebrates capable of producing antibodies. In some cases the CDR sequences are diversified prior to recombination or assembly as described below. Source cells for the constant region and framework DNA sequences can be obtained from a number of sources including e.g. a variety of human cells including na ve and mature B cells or B cell progenitors bone marrow derived cells B cell lines B cell lymphomas plasmacytomas etc.

Typically the amino acid sequences of at least the first three framework FR regions of the heavy chain variable domain of the donor murine Ig and the first two CDRs of the donor murine Ig are determined.

Starting from the N terminal approximately the first 100 amino acids of the N terminal of the heavy chain variable domain sequence of the donor murine Ig are divided into three FRs and two CDRs as defined by the CDR definitions of both Kabat et al. SPII US Dept. Health and Human Services NIH USA 5ed. 1991 and Chothia and Lesk . 1987 196 901 917 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. Using Kabat s numbering system for amino acid residues of an immunoglobulin the amino acids of the CDRs and framework regions are as follows CDR1 amino acids 26 35 CDR2 amino acids 50 65 FR1 amino acids 1 25 FR2 amino acids 36 49 and FR3 amino acids 66 100 . Where the amino acid sequence of the donor murine Ig variable domain is greater than 66 amino acids amino acid residues in positions greater than position 66 e.g. amino acid residues 66 100 as in the present example can be included in framework 3. Optionally sequences corresponding to CDR3 and FR4 are also included.

A library of sequences of framework regions of human Ig heavy chain variable domains is then prepared for diversification e.g. recombination or recursive recombination as follows Using the Kabat numbering system each murine Ig heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequence and murine Ig CDR amino acid sequence is aligned e.g. by aligning electronically or manually with all or a portion subset of the human heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequences and CDR amino acid sequences included in the Kabat database using the SeqhuntII program s Match function or an equivalent alignment program. In some cases it is desirable to elect a predetermined number of mismatches to insure that the final recombinant heavy chain framework region possesses a desired degree of similarity to the donor heavy chain framework amino acid sequence. For example if the number of mismatches is chosen to be greater than or equal 0.35 the number of residues in a given framework then the resulting recombinant heavy chain framework amino acid sequence is less than 65 identical to the donor heavy chain framework amino acid sequence.

Typically 2 or more most typically between 2 and 5 human Ig heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequences that are relatively divergent from the donor murine Ig heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequence e.g. wherein the amino acid sequence of the Ig heavy chain variable domain framework is less than 65 identical to the amino acid sequence of the donor murine Ig heavy chain variable domain framework . These sequences comprise a set. The selected sequences can include members of a particular family group or subgroup of human Ig heavy chain framework amino acid sequences. In some cases it is preferable to choose only those human sequences in the same subgroup for the set of sequences.

Using the selected set of human Ig heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequences one or more libraries of nucleotide sequences inferred from the framework amino acid sequences are provided. In one preferred embodiment the sequences are synthesized according to the following protocol 1 the amino acid sequences of the set of human Ig heavy chain variable domain frameworks are artificially recombined such that the resulting polynucleotide includes elements from multiple component sequences and does not correspond to any single contributing sequence element 2 if the amino acid residue of the murine sequence at any position differs from an amino acid residue at the same position of any one or more sequence of the set of human sequences the murine amino acid residue at that position is not included in the synthesized polynucleotide instead only an amino acid residue derived from a sequence of the set of human Ig heavy chain variable domain framework amino acid sequences is used 3 the library is prepared by implanting e.g. by cutting and pasting hybridizing ligating synthetic oligonucleotides etc. the amino acid sequences for the non human e.g. murine CDR1 and CDR2 into their respective positions i.e. based on Kabat numbering system in each synthetically designed heavy chain framework amino acid sequence 4 a library of degenerate oligonucleotide sequences corresponding to each synthetically recombined e.g. shuffled humanized heavy chain variable domain sequence in 3 is then synthesized. It will be appreciated that the same methods apply equally to as few as a single CDR in combination with two framework regions or to all three CDRs in combination with four framework regions. Furthermore it will be understood that any method for providing fragments corresponding to CDR and framework region sequences can be used as an alternative to the synthetic oligonucleotides described in detail above.

Following a similar procedure libraries of degenerate oligonucleotide sequences corresponding to humanized Ig light chain variable domains are designed using non human e.g. murine CDRs and a set of human Ig light chain variable domain framework regions. In this instance based on the Kabat numbering system the murine CDRs consist of amino acid residues 24 34 L1 50 56 L2 and 89 97 L3 in human V with synthetically recombined framework sequences comprising the remaining portions of the humanized light chain variable domain.

The recombinant e.g. synthetically shuffled oligonucleotides in each library are then assemble to produce libraries of intact coding sequences for heavy and light chain variable domains respectively. If desired the assembled variable regions are further diversified by any one or more of the diversity generating procedures described or cited herein. These coding sequences are then rescued e.g. by PCR amplification or digestion with a restriction enzyme and cloned into an appropriate display vector e.g. a ScFv display vector for expression in a bacterial yeast or mammalian e.g. COS cell. Alternatively a phage display format can be used. For expression in bacterial or yeast cells single chain antibodies are typically preferred. In mammalian cells Fab fragments or intact antibodies are also favorably expressed.

In cases where an intact antibody is preferred humanized heavy and light chain variable regions are cloned in frame with a human constant region e.g. naturally occurring human immunoglobulin constant region from a corresponding Ig group or subgroup.

The synthetically recombined antibody sequences are then expressed either constitutively or inducibly depending on the display vector selected and the resulting antibodies are screened for binding and or other properties. For example the cells displaying the synthetically recombined antibodies are stained with a labeled antigen or ligand e.g. labeled with FITC rhodamine biotin etc. and sorted by flow cytometry using direct or indirect detection of the labeled ligand.

The antibody encoding genes are then recovered e.g. by PCR or other amplification method or by cloning from the positively stained cells. Optionally the labeling and sorting process is repeated using decreasing concentrations of labeled ligand until a desired enrichment for high affinity clones is obtained. Typically 2 3 cycles of labeling and sorting is sufficient to produce a pool of high affinity humanized antibody clones.

At this point further increases in affinity i.e. affinity maturation can be accomplished using e.g. any of the diversification procedures described herein. For example two or more of the best e.g. highest affinity clones are recombined in vitro or in vivo to produce second round libraries which are in turn screened e.g as described above using labeled ligand detected by flow cytometry. Alternatively the best clones can be sequenced and recombined in silico or oligonucleotides can be synthesized and recombined as described above. The process of diversification and selection e.g. by flow cytometry can be performed recursively a desired affinity is obtained.

The humanized antibody genes identified according to this procedure can then be cloned into secretion vectors and transfected into appropriate cell lines for expression of soluble antibodies or fragments. The affinities and or avidities of the expressed soluble antibodies can then be measured e.g. by ELISA biacore etc. Alternatively the synthesized and assembled antibody sequences can be cloned into secretion vectors without screening and assayed directly for binding activity.

Optionally a benchmark humanized antibody comprising donor non human CDRs and the human consensus framework regions as defined by Kabat et al. supra is prepared for comparative purposes. For example the benchmark antibody typically comprises 1 a heavy chain variable domain of a donor non human e.g. murine CDR1 and CDR2 amino acid sequences occupying amino acid positions 26 35 and 50 65 respectively using the Kabat numbering system and consensus sequences for the human heavy chain variable domain frameworks FR1 FR2 and FR3 occupying amino acid positions 1 25 36 49 and 66 100 respectively using the Kabat numbering system and 2 a light chain variable domain comprising the donor murine CDR1 and CDR2 amino acid sequences occupying amino acid positions 24 34 and 50 56 respectively and consensus sequences for the human heavy chain variable domain frameworks FR1 FR2 and FR3 occupying amino acid positions 1 23 35 49 and 56 100 of the naturally occurring murine Ig heavy chain variable domain sequence respectively. Optionally the CDR3 and FR4 domains for both heavy and light chains are also included.

The consensus sequences of the human heavy chain and light chain variable frameworks are defined in Kabat et al. SPII 5ed. 1991 supra. All human light and heavy chain variable domain amino acid sequences are grouped into subgroups of light and heavy chain variable domain amino acid sequences respectively that are particularly homologous to each other and have the same amino acids at certain critical positions. The consensus sequence for a particular group or subgroup of related Igs comprises the amino acid which occurs most frequently at a particular amino acid position among the members of the Ig group or subgroup. If two amino acids occurs equally frequently at a particular position for a given Ig group or subgroup either amino acid can be included in the consensus sequence. Kabat provides a list of the most frequent amino acids at each position in the human variable domain for each subgroup of light and heavy chains. See also Winnaker Verlagsgesellschaft Weinheim Germanu 1987 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The benchmark humanized antibody can also include corresponding human heavy and light chain constant regions e.g. if subsequent expression of an intact antibody is desired. Human constant region nucleic acid sequences for use in preparing immunoglobulins of the present invention can be isolated in accordance with well known procedures from a variety of human cells including na ve and mature B cells or B cell progenitors bone marrow derived cells B cell lines B cell lymphomas plasmacytomas etc. see e.g. Kabat et al. supra .

The benchmark antibody is used for comparative purposes e.g. to determine the relative antigen binding affinity or specificity of a humanized antibody of the present invention with respect to the antigen binding affinity or specificity of the benchmark antibody. If desired the binding affinity of a selected humanized single chain antibody ScFv antibody can be compared with the binding affinity of a benchmark single chain antibody. Typically the affinity of a humanized antibody produced by the methods of the invention is in the range of 4 times or more greater that the affinity of the original murine antibody.

The humanized immunoglobulins of the present invention offer a number of significant advantages relative to antibodies derived directly from human or non human sources. Because the CDRs i.e. the antigen binding site are derived from a non human e.g. mouse hamster sheep goat monkey etc. source experimental immunization for the production of antibodies including monocolonal antibodies is facilitated relative to obtaining high affinity antibodies directly from human sources. Secondly while the variable domain framework amino acid sequences are derived entirely from sequences of human origin they do not consist exclusively of the human consensus framework amino acid sequence providing additional diversity from which to recover humanized antibodies with high antigen binding affinity and specificity. Thirdly a semi rational design strategy is employed to produce synthetic heavy and or light chain framework sequences in which no murine amino acid residue is used at any position in which an amino acid of any of the naturally occurring human light or heavy chain variable domain framework sequences of the set of human relatively divergent sequences selected differs from the amino acid of the murine variable domain framework at the same position. This strategy increases humanization without compromising functionality. In addition the sequence of a humanized heavy or light chain variable domain framework amino acid sequence of the invention is typically less than about 65 identical to the donor heavy or light chain variable domain framework amino acid sequence respectively. Alternatively in another aspect the humanized heavy or light chain variable domain framework amino acid sequence is less than about 95 90 85 80 75 or 70 identical to the donor heavy or light chain variable domain framework amino acid sequence.

Humanized antibodies of the present invention have several advantages over non human e.g. murine antibodies or chimeric antibodies for use in human therapy. Because the framework of the variable region and the constant region of the humanized immunoglobulin is made up of sequences based on human derived diversity the human immune system typically does not recognize these regions as foreign. Consequently the immune response of a recipient against the humanized antibody is frequently significantly less than the response against an antibody derived exclusively from a non human organism or a chimeric antibody containing foreign non human e.g. variable region framework components. Additionally humanized antibodies in particular those antibodies possessing human constant region domains function more similarly to naturally occurring human antibodies e.g. with respect to complement fixation effector function and the like. Effective treatment procedures for humanized antibodies more closely parallel those used for naturally occurring human antibodies than those procedures typically employed with murine or other non human or chimeric antibodies which typically require higher and more frequent doses due to shorter half life of the murine or chimeric antibody in human circulation.

An aspect of the present invention relates to the coevolution of an antibody and its cognate antigen. Efforts at developing therapeutic antibody reagents are often hampered by poor antigenicity of the target antigen. This poor antigenicity is sometimes the result of the high degree of similarity between the target antigen and self antigens of the organism being immunized. In such a case antibodies which react with the target and the self antigen are deleted from the antibody repertoire or are rendered anergic and are unavailable for recovery. Another reason for poor antigenicity is that the target may be an epitope which is available only transiently for example an epitope which results from a conformational change induced by binding of the antigen to a receptor. Another factor affecting antigenicity is the accessibility or lack thereof of the target epitope. Many antigens of clinical relevance are available only in minute amounts in their native state and are difficult to isolate and purify. While expression of recombinant proteins often provides a solution many recombinant proteins form insoluble aggregates in which the relevant antigenic epitopes are inaccessible.

Diversification procedures such as DNA shuffling are used in the present invention to address these and other problems to improve antigenicity of target antigens thereby increasing the repertoire of the antibody response available as a substrate for directed evolution e.g. shuffling of antibodies. The application of DNA diversification and selection procedures such as shuffling for the coordinated improvement of an antibody and its cognate antigen is referred to herein as coevolution. Briefly to apply antibody antigen coevolution a candidate antigen is selected from among any of the potential targets described above e.g. tumor antigens bacterial antigens viral antigens. The DNA encoding the target antigen is then subjected to one or more rounds of recombination and or mutagenesis according to any of the methods e.g. shuffling described herein. Libraries of recombinant antigen sequences are screened and sequences encoding antigens or antigenic peptides with desired properties are selected. Desired properties include stability solubility and conformation among others. After an initial screen to select library members with desirable properties antibodies which bind a selected antigen or selected pool of e.g. shuffled library members are raised or selected using the methods described above. The DNA sequences encoding these antibodies then provide the substrates for one or more rounds of diversification and selection for example by DNA shuffling.

Methods of screening the recombinant antigen library are critical for the success of the coevolution process. Numerous methods are available and are exemplified in the procedures outlined below. However it will be apparent to one of skill in the art that modifications or substitutions of alternative methods will also be applicable. The libraries of recombinant antigen sequences are typically large pools of DNA sequences while a typical antigen suitable for immunization is an isolated or purified protein. Nonetheless a number of approaches suitable for screening large libraries are available. For example naked or conjugated DNA has been used to raise antibodies in a number of organisms and has been effective as a vaccine in many cases. Pools of library sequences can be used to immunize a model animal most frequently a mouse and the resulting antibodies assayed for their ability to bind an informative target e.g. tumor cells bacteria virally infected cells. Optionally display libraries can be derived from the immunized animal for further evaluation and manipulation. Alternatively the library DNA can be transcribed and translated in vitro and the resulting polypeptides used as an immunogen. Another approach is to transform the library sequences and express them in cells. Depending on the vector selected whole cells or cell components can then be used as immunogens. In the case where an existing albeit sub optimal antibody to the target exists the existing antibody can be used to pre select cells expressing evolved antigens prior to immunization.

Tremendous effort has been expended in the last decade towards developing antigens which induce broadly neutralizing antibodies against HIV. Such an antigen is desirable in the development of vaccines against HIV. The most promising strategies to date have focused on the HIV envelope proteins gp120 and gp41. However a number of difficulties have continued to plague efforts to produce broadly neutralizing antibodies to these envelope proteins. HIV rapidly mutates and recombines mutant sequences. Broadly neutralizing antibodies must therefore target highly conserved epitopes of which there are few in HIV. The envelope is highly glycosylated and this is believed to cloak conserved epitopes from the humoral immune system. In vivo gp120 and gp41 form a trimeric complex on the surface of the envelope and it is difficult to mimic this conformation in an antigen formulation. Additionally this trimeric complex undergoes a conformational change after binding CD4 and CCR5 transiently exposing novel epitopes prior to fusion of the virion with the target cell. These conformational epitopes may be inaccessible to the humoral immune system by virtue of their transient exposure during the fusion process. Furthermore the gp41 protein is difficult to express and purify despite repeated attempts. Recombinant gp41 froms intractable precipitates when the whole protein or the N terminal 51 residues are expressed.

The DNA diversification procedures such as shuffling described herein provide a means for evolving gp120 and gp41 homologues that can be tractably expressed either as protein or as DNA. Homologues of gp120 and gp41 which are stably expressed in conformations that elicit broadly neutralizing antibodies are selected using one or more prescreens. Candidates which are identified through the prescreening process are then used to immunize mice. The resulting antibodies are then themselves the subject of the diversification procedures e.g. DNA shuffling of the invention. The following examples describe variations and are for purposes of illustration rather than limitation modifications and combinations will be readily apparent to one of skill in the art and are included within the scope of the present invention.

A vector which utilizes a strong promoter derived from cytomegalovirus and the rev gene of HIV 1 is utilized to provide efficient transcription and stabilization of messenger RNA. Cloning sites are used to introduce gp120 sequences into the vector between the CMV promoter 5 and gp41 encoding sequences 3 . Sequences derived from one or more isolates of HIV corresponding to the respective gp120 genes are cloned into the vector and diversified e.g. shuffled in vitro as described herein. The resulting library is screened as follows. Recombined and or mutated e.g. shuffled sequences resulting in translation of an intact gp120 without termination or frameshift leads to synthesis of gp41 protein from the adjacent sequences. When expressed in CD4 positive human cells along with gp120 gp41 has fusogenic activity. To screen the diversified e.g. shuffled gp120 library human 293 cells expressing CD4 are transfected with library plasmids. After incubation under appropriate conditions 37 C. 5 CO2 for 24 hours fusion of the transfected cells is evaluated microscopically. Library clones which give rise to intact protein are then pooled for immunization. Complex library mixtures typically comprising 5000 15000 members per 100 g immunization dose are then used to immunize a group of mice for subsequent evaluation.

Two conformational states of gp41 are of interest in the induction of broadly neutralizing antibodies against HIV Biochemistry 1995 34 14961 . The first of these is the so called resting state of gp41. Portions of gp41 such as the so called N terminal domain which forms a three stranded coiled coil are highly conserved between HIV subtypes and feature of these sequences are conserved across all retroviruses i.e. the three stranded coiled coil structure . Peptides derived form the C terminal helix and stabilized analogs of this helix have been shown to have broadly neutralizing activity against many subtypes of HIV Judice et al. . 1997 94 1342 . The current model suggests that the peptides can bind to the conserved groove on the N terminal helix trimer and thus inhibit the conformational change involved in fusion to a CD4 cell. Thus antibodies that can gain access to this conserved coiled coil structure either in the resting state or at some point during the fusion event can effectively block fusion.

A second alternative is the fusogenic state formed by the three C terminal helices packed against the coiled coil formed by the N terminal helices. Biochemical studies on HIV fusion suggest that it takes about 20 minutes from the time the first envelope trimers undergo a conformational change and initiate the fusion process to the point that the HIV virion fuses with the target cell. During this period conformational epitoes corresponding to the fusogenic form of gp41 are exposed to antibodies.

The present invention provides for the recombination e.g. shuffling of gp41 gene fragments to generate recombinant gp41 homologues which encode polypeptides which correspond to the resting state and fusogenic conformational epitopes. Accordingly DNA fragments corresponding to gp41 homologues can be recombined using any of the methods described in this application. Screening for the conformational epitopes is then perfomed for example by assessing the ability of recombinant epitopes to bind peptides or antibodies of interest.

The methods outlined above provide suitable antigen for the production of antibodies and the sequences encoding them to serve as substrates for the diversification e.g. shuffling methods of the invention. Optimized antibodies against HIV epitopes have great utility in the diagnosis prevention and treatment of HIV infection.

In addition the DNA sequences encoding recombinant e.g. shuffled antigen or portions thereof comprising antigenic peptides and epitopes produced by the methods of the invention can also serve as DNA vaccines. Furthermore individual recombinant antigens can be expressed to provide material for protein vaccines. Likewise pools of recombinant antigens can be combined to produce cocktails of recombinant antigens for vaccines. Such vaccines have utility in the generation of HIV neutralizing antibodies in humans.

One aspect of the present invention includes the cloning and expression of antibody coding nucleic acids. In addition to the many texts noted above general texts which describe molecular biological techniques useful herein including the use of vectors promoters and many other topics relevant to expressing nucleic acids such as antibodies include Berger and Kimmel volume 152 Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. Berger Sambrook et al. 2nd Ed. Vol. 1 3 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 Sambrook and F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. Current Protocols a joint venture between Greene Publishing Associates Inc. and John Wiley Sons Inc. supplemented through 1999 Ausubel . Examples of techniques sufficient to direct persons of skill through in vitro amplification methods useful in identifying isolating and cloning antibody coding nucleic acids including the polymerase chain reaction PCR the ligase chain reaction LCR Q replicase amplification and other RNA polymerase mediated techniques e.g. NASBA are found in Berger Sambrook and Ausubel as well as Mullis et al. 1987 U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 202 PCR Innis et al. eds Academic Press Inc. San Diego Calif. 1990 Innis Amheim Levinson Oct. 1 1990 C EN 36 47 1991 3 81 94 Kwoh et al. 1989 86 1173 Guatelli et al. 1990 87 1874 Lomell et al. 1989 35 1826 Landegren et al. 1988 241 1077 1080 Van Brunt 1990 8 291 294 Wu and Wallace 1989 4 560 Barringer et al. 1990 89 117 and Sooknanan and Malek 1995 13 563 564. Improved methods of cloning in vitro amplified nucleic acids are described in Wallace et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 426 039. Improved methods of amplifying large nucleic acids by PCR are summarized in Cheng et al. 1994 369 684 685 and the references therein in which PCR amplicons of up to 40 kb are generated. One of skill will appreciate that essentially any RNA can be converted into a double stranded DNA suitable for restriction digestion PCR expansion and sequencing using reverse transcriptase and a polymerase. See Ausubel Sambrook and Berger all supra.

The present invention also relates to host cells which are transduced with vectors of the invention and the production of antibody polypeptides of the invention by recombinant techniques. Host cells are genetically engineered i.e. transduced transformed or transfected with the vectors of this invention which may be for example a cloning vector or an expression vector. The vector may be for example in the form of a plasmid a viral particle a phage etc. The engineered host cells can be cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for activating promoters selecting transformants or amplifying the antibody gene s of interest. The culture conditions such as temperature pH and the like are those previously used with the host cell selected for expression and will be apparent to those skilled in the art and in the references cited herein including e.g. Freshney 1994 third edition Wiley Liss New York and the references cited therein.

The antibodies of the invention can also be produced in non animal cells such as plants yeast fungi bacteria and the like. Indeed as noted throughout phage display is an especially relevant technique for producing antibodies. In addition to Sambrook Berger and Ausubel details regarding cell culture can be found in Payne et al. 1992 John Wiley Sons Inc. New York N.Y. Gamborg and Phillips eds 1995 Fundamental Methods Springer Lab Manual Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg New York and Atlas and Parks eds 1993 CRC Press Boca Raton Fla.

The present invention provides computers computer readable media and integrated systems comprising character strings corresponding to diversified e.g. shuffled antibodies and antibody encoding nucleic acids. These sequences can be manipulated by in silico shuffling methods or by standard sequence alignment or word processing software.

For example different types of similarity and considerations of various stringency and character string length can be detected and recognized in the integrated systems herein. For example many homology determination methods have been designed for comparative analysis of sequences of biopolymers for spell checking in word processing and for data retrieval from various databases. With an understanding of double helix pair wise complement interactions among 4 principal nucleobases in natural polynucleotides models that simulate annealing of complementary homologous polynucleotide strings can also be used as a foundation of sequence alignment or other operations typically performed on the character strings corresponding to the sequences herein e.g. word processing manipulations construction of figures comprising sequence or subsequence character strings output tables etc. . An example of a software package with GOs for calculating sequence similarity is BLAST which can be adapted to the present invention by inputting character strings corresponding to the sequences herein.

BLAST is described in Altschul et al. 215 403 410 1990 . Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for Biotechnology Information. This algorithm involves first identifying high scoring sequence pairs HSPs by identifying short words of length W in the query sequence which either match or satisfy some positive valued threshold score T when aligned with a word of the same length in a database sequence. T is referred to as the neighborhood word score threshold Altschul et al. supra . These initial neighborhood word hits act as seeds for initiating searches to find longer HSPs containing them. The word hits are then extended in both directions along each sequence for as far as the cumulative alignment score can be increased. Cumulative scores are calculated using for nucleotide sequences the parameters M reward score for a pair of matching residues always 0 and N penalty score for mismatching residues always 

An additional example of a useful sequence alignment algorithm is PILEUP. PILEUP creates a multiple sequence alignment from a group of related sequences using progressive pairwise alignments. It can also plot a tree showing the clustering relationships used to create the alignment. PILEUP uses a simplification of the progressive alignment method of Feng Doolittle 35 351 360 1987 . The method used is similar to the method described by Higgins Sharp 5 151 153 1989 . The program can align e.g. up to 300 sequences of a maximum length of 5 000 letters. The multiple alignment procedure begins with the pairwise alignment of the two most similar sequences producing a cluster of two aligned sequences. This cluster can then be aligned to the next most related sequence or cluster of aligned sequences. Two clusters of sequences can be aligned by a simple extension of the pairwise alignment of two individual sequences. The final alignment is achieved by a series of progressive pairwise alignments. The program can also be used to plot a dendogram or tree representation of clustering relationships. The program is run by designating specific sequences and their amino acid or nucleotide coordinates for regions of sequence comparison.

The sequence recombined e.g. shuffled antibodies of the invention or coding nucleic acids are aligned to provide structure function information. For example the alignment of recombinant e.g. shuffled antibody sequences which are selected against the same target provides an indication of which residues are relevant for binding to the antigen i.e. conserved residues are likely more important for activity than non conserved residues .

Standard desktop applications such as word processing software e.g. Microsoft Word or Corel WordPerfect and database software e.g. spreadsheet software such as Microsoft Excel Corel Quattro PrO or database programs such as Microsoft Access or Paradox can be adapted to the present invention by inputting character strings corresponding to variant e.g. shuffled antibodies or coding nucleic acids e.g. produced for example by nucleic acid shuffling by the methods described herein. For example the integrated systems can include the foregoing software having the appropriate character string information e.g. used in conjunction with a user interface e.g. a GUI in a standard operating system such as a Windows Macintosh or LINUX system to manipulate strings of characters. As noted specialized alignment programs such as BLAST or PILEUP can also be incorporated into the systems of the invention for alignment of nucleic acids or proteins or corresponding character strings .

Integrated systems for analysis in the present invention typically include a digital computer with software for aligning or manipulating sequences as well as data sets entered into the software system comprising any of the sequences herein. The computer can be e.g. a PC Intel x86 or Pentium chip compatible DOS OS2 WINDOWS WINDOWS NT WINDOWS95 WINDOWS98 LINUX based machine a MACINTOSH Power PC or a UNIX based e.g. SUN work station machine or other commercially common computer which is known to one of skill. Software for aligning or otherwise manipulating sequences is available or can easily be constructed by one of skill using a standard programming language such as Visual basic Fortran Basic Java or the like.

Any controller or computer optionally includes a monitor which is often a cathode ray tube CRT display a flat panel display e.g. active matrix liquid crystal display liquid crystal display or others. Computer circuitry is often placed in a box which includes numerous integrated circuit chips such as a microprocessor memory interface circuits and others. The box also optionally includes a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a high capacity removable drive such as a writeable CD ROM and other common peripheral elements. Inputting devices such as a keyboard or mouse optionally provide for input from a user and for user selection of sequences to be compared or otherwise manipulated in the relevant computer system.

The computer typically includes appropriate software for receiving user instructions either in the form of user input into a set parameter fields e.g. in a GUI or in the form of preprogrammed instructions e.g. preprogrammed for a variety of different specific operations. The software then converts these instructions to appropriate language for instructing the system to carry out any desired operation.

In one aspect the computer system is used to perform in silico sequence recombination or shuffling of character strings. A variety of such methods are set forth in METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov and Stemmer filed Feb. 5 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 60 118 854 and METHODS FOR MAKING CHARACTER STRINGS POLYNUCLEOTIDES POLYPEPTIDES HAVING DESIRED CHARACTERISTICS by Selifonov and Stemmer filed Oct. 12 1999 U.S. Ser. No. 09 416 375 . In brief genetic operators are used in genetic algorithms to change given sequences e.g. by mimicking genetic events such as mutation recombination death and the like. Multi dimensional analysis to optimize sequences can be also be performed in the computer system e.g. as described in the 375 application.

A digital system can also instruct an oligonucleotide synthesizer to synthesize oligonucleotides e.g. used for gene reconstruction or recombination or to order oligonucleotides from commercial sources e.g. by printing appropriate order forms or by linking to an order form on the internet .

The digital system can also include output elements for controlling nucleic acid synthesis e.g. based upon a sequence or an alignment of a recombinant e.g. shuffled antibody as herein i.e. an integrated system of the invention optionally includes an oligonucleotide synthesizer or an oligonucleotide synthesis controller. The system can include other operations which occur downstream from an alignment or other operation performed using a character string corresponding to a sequence herein e.g. as noted above with reference to assays.

The present invention provides commercially valuable assays and kits to practice the assays. In the assays of the invention one or more antibody of the invention is employed to e.g. detect a target antigen identify a cell neutralize an antigen etc. Such assays are based on any known method in the art e.g ELISA flow cytometry fluorescent microscopy plasmon resonance and the like to detect binding of an antibody to a target antigen.

Kits based on the assay are also provided. The kits typically include a container and one or more antibody. The kits optionally comprise directions for performing the assays additional detection reagents buffers or instructions for the use of any of these components or the like. Alternatively kits can include cells vectors e.g. expression vectors secretion vectors comprising an antibody of the invention for e.g. the expression of an antibody of the invention.

In a further aspect the present invention provides for the use of any composition antibody cell cell culture apparatus apparatus component or kit herein for the practice of any method or assay herein and or for the use of any apparatus or kit to practice any assay or method herein and or for the use of cells cell cultures compositions or other features herein as a therapeutic formulation. The manufacture of all components herein as therapeutic formulations for the treatments described herein is also provided.

Starting materials for artificial affinity maturation by DNA diversification and selection procedures can be derived from any of a variety of human and or non human donor sequences. In many cases it is most convenient to utilize sequences corresponding to monoclonal antibodies derived from hybridomas. However nucleic acid sequences derived from antigen specific or even unselected or na ve B cells from immunized human or non human donors can also be utilized.

For example to produce a high affinity human antibody specific for a selected target antigen one or more human derived antibody gene s are selected from e.g. xenomouse hybridomas or na ve human antibody display libraries e.g. phage display antibodies or other cell surface display formats including bacterial or yeast display formats to provide the starting materials for artificial affinity maturation e.g. by DNA recombination or recursive recombination e.g. shuffling. Alternatively or in addition sequences from humanized antibodies can be used.

While sequences originating from na ve B cells or libraries of sequences can be utilized especially in cases where sequences from antigen specific cells are unavailable it is often more desirable to use sequences derived from a target antigen specific cell such as a B cell or hybridoma. Any target antigen including protein antigens carbohydrate antigens cell fragments or fractions viral particles tumor antigen etc. to which an antibody response can be produced using an appropriate immunization protocol is suitable for producing a target antigen specific antibody response. Similarly B cells hybridomas and other antibody producing cells that are specific for a particular target antigen e.g. as described above can provide the starting sequences for affinity maturation by DNA recombination and mutagenesis procedures as described herein. Numerous protocols for eliciting a target antigen specific antibody response are known to those of skill in the art.

Human variable domain sequences that are similar or homologous or substantially similar or homologous to the variable domain sequences of the selected antibody gene s are identified e.g. by hybridization in silico sequence analysis or other means. Typically other variable domain sequences from the same or a related human V gene family group or subgroup are identified. The identified variable domain nucleotide sequences are then aligned with the corresponding variable domain sequences of the previously selected antibody gene s . Degenerate oligonucleotides which capture the nucleotide sequence diversity of the identified sequences of the human V gene family group or subgroup are designed and assembled to generate libraries of synthetic recombinant sequences.

Most commonly these sequences are then cloned into a cell surface display format i.e. bacterial yeast or mammalian COS cell surface display phage display for expression and screening. A single chain format is typically preferred for bacterial and yeast display systems while a Fab or whole antibody format can be favorably expressed in mammalian cells.

The recombinant sequences are transfected transduced or transformed into the appropriate host cell where they are expressed and displayed on the cell surface. For example the cells can be stained with a labeled e.g. fluorescently labeled target ligand i.e. antigen . The stained cells are sorted by flow cytometry and the antibody encoding genes are recovered e.g. by PCR or expansion and cloning from the positive cells. The process of staining and sorting can be repeated multiple times e.g. using progressively decreasing concentrations of the target ligand until a desired level of enrichment is obtained. Alternatively any screening or detection method known in the art that can be used to identify cells that bind the target antigen can be employed.

The antibody encoding genes recovered from the target antigen binding cells are then recombined according to any of the methods described herein or in the cited references. The recombinant sequences produced in this round of diversification are then screened by the same or a different method to identify recombinant genes with improved affinity for the target antigen. The diversification and selection process is optionally repeated until a desired affinity is obtained.

The recombinant antibody genes produced by recursive recombination of progressively higher affinity antibody genes are then cloned into an appropriate secretion vector and transfected into a host cell for expression and production of the encoded antibody. The affinity of the soluble antibody can be measured using known techniques e.g. ELISA biacore. If the desired affinity has not been achieved further cycles of recombination and screening can be performed optionally incorporating diversity from additional sequence elements or mutagenesis procedures.

The methods of the present invention can be used to humanize mouse monoclonal antibodies. The following example illustrates selection of starting sequences based on a sequence alignment between a mouse monoclonal antibody with a desired specificity and a group of related human variable region sequences. The specificity of the antibody selected and the nucleic acid sequences encoding the selected antibody are not material to the present invention. Indeed sequences encoding any monoclonal antibody or even an antibody derived from a polyclonal serum for which the nucleic acid or protein sequence is known or can be determined e.g. by clonal expansion and sequencing of an antigen specific B cell. Accordingly the following example is provided as illustration and should not be interpreted to define the scope of the invention.

For example the amino acid sequence corresponding to a mouse monoclonal antibody specific for tumor necrosis factor TNF alpha SEQ ID NO 1 labeled below as 1 is aligned with a set of related human antibody sequences e.g. amino acid sequences inferred from human antibody encoding nucleic acid sequences of the same class and or family SEQ ID NO 2 labeled below as 2 Dersimonian et al. 1987 139 2496 2501 SEQ ID NO 3 labeled below as 3 Griffiths et al. 1993 12 725 734 SEQ ID NO 4 labeled below as 4 Huang et al. 1992 89 1331 1343 SEQ ID NO 5 labeled below as 5 Kasaian et el. 1994 152 3137 3151 and SEQ ID NO 6 labeled below as 6 Welschof et al. 1995 179 203 214 as follows 

Framework region FR 1 corresponds to amino acid positions 1 25 FR 2 corresponds to amino acid positions 36 49 and FR 3 corresponds to amino acid positions 66 100. Complementarity determining region CDR 1 corresponds to amino acid positions 26 35 and CDR 2 corresponds to amino acid positions 50 65. Dots indicate positions of amino acid identity between mouse and human sequences.

Amino acid sequences that are substantially dissimilar from the mouse sequence to be humanized are typically selected. In general sequences that are less than 65 identical in any of the framework regions are utilized. A comparison of the 5 human sequences listed above to the sequence of the mouse monoclonal antibody yields the following measures of identity 

Oligonucleotides are synthesized that encode the amino acid diversity present in the aligned antibody sequences. At positions within the framework regions that differ between the mouse and any human sequence the mouse residue is never used. Oligonucleotides encoding the mouse monoclonal antibody CDRs are then incorporated into libraries of synthetic oligonucleotides. Optionally the CDR3 and or FR4 regions are similarly aligned and corresponding oligonucleotides synthesized and assembled. In this manner a library of full length recombinant variable region sequences is assembled starting only with a set of sequence files corresponding to the non human antibody to be humanized and two or more distantly related human antibody sequences.

Following assembly of the synthesized oligonucleotides into a library of full length variable regions representing the sequence diversity present in the mouse and human sequence files the variable region nucleic acids can be recombined and or mutated and selected according to any of the methods described herein.

While the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity and understanding it will be clear to one skilled in the art from a reading of this disclosure that various changes in form and detail can be made without departing from the true scope of the invention. For example all the techniques methods compositions apparatus and systems described above may be used in various combinations. All publications patents patent applications or other documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication patent patent application or other document were individually indicated to be incorporated by reference for all purposes.

