---

title: Alpha 1A-adrenoceptor antagonists
abstract: This invention relates to novel compounds that are dihydroindoles derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. More specifically, this invention relates to novel dihydroindoles derivatives that are derivatives of silodosin. This invention also provides compositions comprising one or more compounds of this invention and a carrier and the use of the disclosed compounds and compositions in methods of treating diseases and conditions that are beneficially treated by administering an α-1A-adrenoreceptor antagonist, such as silodosin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08013007&OS=08013007&RS=08013007
owner: Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 08013007
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080226
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 903 472 filed on Feb. 26 2007. The entire teachings of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

Silodosin is also known as 1 3 Hydroxypropyl 5 2 R 2 2 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy phenoxy ethylamino propyl 2 3 dihydroindole 7 carboxamide R 1 3 hydroxypropyl 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy phenoxy ethylamino propyl indoline 7 carboxamide KAD 3213 and KMD 3213. It is marketed in Japan under the tradename URIEF for the treatment of Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms LUTS associated with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia BPH .

Despite the beneficial activities of silodosin there is a continuing need for new compounds to treat the aforementioned diseases and conditions.

This invention relates to novel compounds that are dihydroindoles derivatives and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. More specifically this invention relates to novel dihydroindoles derivatives that are derivatives of silodosin. This invention also provides compositions comprising one or more compounds of this invention and a carrier and the use of the disclosed compounds and compositions in methods of treating diseases and conditions that are beneficially treated by administering an 1A adrenoreceptor antagonist such as silodosin.

The terms ameliorate and treat are used interchangeably and include both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic treatment reducing the likelihood of development . Both terms mean decrease suppress attenuate diminish arrest or stabilize the development or progression of a disease e.g. a disease or disorder delineated herein lessen the severity of the disease or improve the symptoms associated with the disease.

 Disease means any condition or disorder that damages or interferes with the normal function of a cell tissue or organ.

It will be recognized that some variation of natural isotopic abundance occurs in a synthesized compound depending upon the origin of chemical materials used in the synthesis. Thus a preparation of silodosin will inherently contain small amounts of deuterated and or C containing isotopologues. The concentration of naturally abundant stable hydrogen and carbon isotopes notwithstanding this variation is small and immaterial as compared to the degree of stable isotopic substitution of compounds of this invention. See for instance Wada E et al. Seikagaku 1994 66 15 Ganes L Z et al. Comp Biochem Physiol Mol Integr Physiol 1998 119 725.

The compounds of the present invention are distinguished from such naturally occurring minor forms in that the term compound as used in this invention refers to a composition of matter that has a minimum isotopic enrichment factor of at least 500 7.5 deuterium incorporation for each deuterium atom that is present at a site designated as a site of deuteration in Formula I .

In the compounds of the invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom unless otherwise stated. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition.

The term isotopic enrichment factor as used herein means the ratio between the isotopic abundance e.g. D or C at a specified position in a compound of this invention and the naturally occurring abundance of that isotope. The natural abundance of deuterium is 0.015 . The natural abundance of C is 1.11 .

In other embodiments a compound of this invention has an isotopic enrichment factor for each deuterium present at a site designated as a potential site of deuteration on the compound of at least 1000 15 deuterium incorporation at least 1500 22.5 deuterium incorporation at least 2000 30 deuterium incorporation at least 2500 37.5 deuterium incorporation at least 3000 45 deuterium incorporation at least 3500 52.5 deuterium incorporation at least 4000 60 deuterium incorporation at least 4500 67.5 deuterium incorporation at least 5000 75 deuterium at least 5500 82.5 deuterium incorporation at least 6000 90 deuterium incorporation at least 6333.3 95 deuterium incorporation at least 6466.7 97 deuterium incorporation at least 6600 99 deuterium incorporation or at least 6633.3 99.5 deuterium incorporation . It is understood that the isotopic enrichment factor of each deuterium present at a site designated as a site of deuteration is independent of other deuterated sites. For example if there are two sites of deuteration on a compound one site could be deuterated at 22.5 while the other could be deuterated at 37.5 and still be considered a compound wherein the isotopic enrichment factor is at least 1500 22.5 .

The structural formula depicted herein may or may not indicate whether atoms at certain positions are isotopically enriched. In a most general embodiment when a structural formula is silent with respect to whether a particular position is isotopically enriched it is to be understood that the stable isotopes at the particular position are present at natural abundance or alternatively that that particular position is isotopically enriched with one or more naturally occurring stable isotopes. In a more specific embodiment the stable isotopes are present at natural abundance at all positions in a compound not specifically designated as being isotopically enriched.

The term isotopologue refers to a species that differs from a specific compound of this invention only in the isotopic composition thereof. Isotopologues can differ in the level of isotopic enrichment at one or more positions and or in the positions s of isotopic enrichment.

A salt of a compound of this invention is formed between an acid and a basic group of the compound such as an amino functional group or a base and an acidic group of the compound such as a carboxyl functional group. According to another embodiment the compound is a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable as used herein refers to a component that is within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and other mammals without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt means any non toxic salt that upon administration to a recipient is capable of providing either directly or indirectly a compound of this invention. A pharmaceutically acceptable counterion is an ionic portion of a salt that is not toxic when released from the salt upon administration to a recipient.

Acids commonly employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include inorganic acids such as hydrogen bisulfide hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydroiodic acid sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid as well as organic acids such as para toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid tartaric acid bitartaric acid ascorbic acid maleic acid besylic acid fumaric acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid formic acid glutamic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid lactic acid oxalic acid para bromophenylsulfonic acid carbonic acid succinic acid citric acid benzoic acid and acetic acid as well as related inorganic and organic acids. Such pharmaceutically acceptable salts thus include sulfate pyrosulfate bisulfate sulfite bisulfite phosphate monohydrogenphosphate dihydrogenphosphate metaphosphate pyrophosphate chloride bromide iodide acetate propionate decanoate caprylate acrylate formate isobutyrate caprate heptanoate propiolate oxalate malonate succinate suberate sebacate fumarate maleate butyne 1 4 dioate hexyne 1 6 dioate benzoate chlorobenzoate methylbenzoate dinitrobenzoate hydroxybenzoate methoxybenzoate phthalate terephathalate sulfonate xylene sulfonate phenylacetate phenylpropionate phenylbutyrate citrate lactate hydroxybutyrate glycolate maleate tartrate methanesulfonate propanesulfonate naphthalene 1 sulfonate naphthalene 2 sulfonate mandelate and other salts. In one embodiment pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those formed with mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid and hydrobromic acid and especially those formed with organic acids such as maleic acid.

As used herein the term hydrate means a compound which further includes a stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amount of water bound by non covalent intermolecular forces.

As used herein the term solvate means a compound which further includes a stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amount of solvent such as water acetone ethanol methanol dichloromethane 2 propanol or the like bound by non covalent intermolecular forces.

The compounds of the present invention e.g. compounds of Formula I may contain an asymmetric carbon atom for example as the result of deuterium substitution or otherwise. As such compounds of this invention can exist as either individual enantiomers or mixtures of the two enantiomers. Accordingly a compound of the present invention will include both racemic mixtures and also individual respective stereoisomers that are substantially free from another possible stereoisomer. The term substantially free of other stereoisomers as used herein means less than 25 of other stereoisomers preferably less than 10 of other stereoisomers more preferably less than 5 of other stereoisomers and most preferably less than 2 of other stereoisomers or less than X of other stereoisomers wherein X is a number between 0 and 100 inclusive are present. Methods of obtaining or synthesizing an individual enantiomer for a given compound are well known in the art and may be applied as practicable to final compounds or to starting material or intermediates.

The term stable compounds as used herein refers to compounds which possess stability sufficient to allow for their manufacture and which maintain the integrity of the compound for a sufficient period of time to be useful for the purposes detailed herein e.g. formulation into therapeutic products intermediates for use in production of therapeutic compounds isolatable or storable intermediate compounds treating a disease or condition responsive to therapeutic agents .

Throughout this specification a variable may be referred to generally e.g. each R to encompass two related variables e.g. each R to mean Rand R or may be referred to specifically e.g. R R R etc. . Unless otherwise indicated when a variable is referred to generally it is meant to include all specific embodiments of that particular variable.

In one embodiment each pair of R groups bound to a common atom are the same i.e. they are either both hydrogen or both deuterium and is selected independently from any other pair of R groups. For example in such an embodiment if Rand Rare hydrogen the identity of each other pair e.g. Rand R Rand R Rand R and so on is independently selected from hydrogen or deuterium.

In another embodiment Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium and Rand Rare the same. In another embodiment R R Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium.

In another embodiment R R Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium and Rand Rare the same. In another embodiment R R R R Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium.

In yet another embodiment the compound is selected from any one of the compounds Cmpd set forth in Table 1 below 

In another set of embodiments any atom not designated as deuterium in any of the embodiments set forth above is present at its natural isotopic abundance.

The invention also provides intermediates useful in the preparation of the compounds of Formula I . As such the invention provides compounds represented by structural formula XV 

In one embodiment each pair of R groups bound to a common atom are the same i.e. they are either both hydrogen or both deuterium and is selected independently from any other pair of R groups.

In another embodiment Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium and Rand Rare the same. In another embodiment R R Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium.

In another embodiment R R Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium and Rand Rare the same. In another embodiment R R R R Rand Rare simultaneously deuterium.

In still another embodiment in any of the aforementioned embodiments each atom not designated as deuterium is present at its natural isotopic abundance.

In one embodiment each pair of R groups bound to a common atom are the same i.e. they are either both hydrogen or both deuterium and is selected independently from any other pair of R groups.

In yet another embodiment in any of the aforementioned embodiments each R not designated as deuterium is hydrogen present at its natural isotopic abundance.

In still another embodiment in any of the aforementioned embodiments each atom not designated as deuterium is present at its natural isotopic abundance.

In one embodiment each pair of R groups bound to a common atom are the same i.e. they are either both hydrogen or both deuterium and is selected independently from any other pair of R groups.

The synthesis of compounds of Formula I can be readily achieved by synthetic chemists of ordinary skill. Relevant procedures and intermediates are disclosed for instance in U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 603.

Such methods can be carried out utilizing corresponding deuterated and optionally other isotope containing reagents and or intermediates to synthesize the compounds delineated herein or invoking standard synthetic protocols known in the art for introducing isotopic atoms to a chemical structure.

As provided in Scheme 1 the bromination of appropriately deuterated indoline IA with pyrrolidone hydrogen tribromide PHT and sulfuric acid in THF gives the alpha bromo derivative II which is reduced with triethylsilane in TFA yielding the 2 bromopropyl compound III. Nitration of III with HNOin HOAc affords the 7 nitroindoline IV which is reduced to the corresponding amine derivative V with Hover PtOin ethanol. The reaction of amine V with NaNO HCl followed by treatment with CuCN provides carbonitrile VI which is treated with NaNin hot ethylene glycol monomethyl ether water to yield the 2 azidopropyl derivative VII. Reduction of VII with Hover Pd BaSOin ethanol affords the 2 aminopropyl VIII which is condensed with the appropriately deuterated alkyl halide IX by means of NaHCOin ethanol to provide the secondary amine X.

The optical resolution of amine X can be performed by treatment with mandelic acid in ethanol followed by crystallization of the resulting salt and then treatment with NaCOto afford the desired R enantiomer XI. Compound XI is protected with BocO to give the corresponding carbamate XII which is deacetylated with NaOH in ethanol to yield the intermediate XIII. Hydrolysis of the cyano group of XIII with NaOH and HOin DMSO furnishes the corresponding carboxamide XIV which is condensed with the appropriate tosylate XV by means of KCOand a crown ether in dioxane to provide the indoline adduct XVI. Finally desilylation of XVI with TBAF in THF yields the 3 hydroxypropyl derivative XVII which by removal of the Boc protecting group by means of TFA in dichloromethane gives the desired final compound.

The intermediate alkyl halide IX may be obtained as depicted in Scheme 2 above. One skilled in the art will appreciate that X may also comprise OSOCHCH OSOCH OSOCFinstead of a halide. Thus alkylation of 2 methoxyphenol XVIII with an appropriately deuterated alkyl iodide XIX by means of KCOin hot DMF gives phenyl ether XX which is demethylated by means of BBrin dichloromethane to yield the corresponding phenol XXI. Finally this compound is alkylated with the appropriately deuterated halide XXII and NaOH in water at 120 C.

Reagent XV can be prepared as depicted in Scheme 3 above. Thus the appropriately deuterated diol XXII is treated with imidazole and TBDMS chloride to product silyl ether XXIII which is stirred with tosyl chloride and pyridine to provide desired tosylate XV.

Starting Material IA can be prepared as depicted in Scheme 4 above. Thus the appropriately deuterated alcohol XXIV is converted to bromide XXV with CBrand PPh. Bromide XXV is treated with HNOto produce nitroaryl XXVI which is treated with SnClto produce dihydroindole XXVII. N Acylation with acetyl chloride in pyridine provides amide XXVIII which is treated with AlCland EtC O Cl to provide desired starting compound IA.

Referring to Scheme 5 the preparation of appropriately deuterated amine XXIX can be carried out according to the procedure outlined in Japanese patent JP 2006188470. As an additional matter appropriately deuterated amine XXIX can be prepared following JP 2006188470 using correspondingly deuterated reagents and starting materials. Amine XXIX is condensed with appropriately deuterated IX where X Br Cl I OMs OTf or OTs by means of NaHCOin ethanol to provide the secondary amine XXX which is hydrogenated over Pd C to afford the alcohol XXXI. Hydrolysis of the nitrile moiety of XXXI to the amide with NaOH HOin DMSO provides the desired final compound.

The specific approaches and compounds shown above are not intended to be limiting. The chemical structures in the schemes herein depict variables that are hereby defined commensurately with chemical group definitions moieties atoms etc. of the corresponding position in the compound formulae herein whether identified by the same variable name i.e. R R R etc. or not. The suitability of a chemical group in a compound structure for use in the synthesis of another compound is within the knowledge of one of ordinary skill in the art.

Additional methods of synthesizing compounds of Formula I and their synthetic precursors including those within routes not explicitly shown in schemes herein are within the means of chemists of ordinary skill in the art. Synthetic chemistry transformations and protecting group methodologies protection and deprotection useful in synthesizing the applicable compounds are known in the art and include for example those described in Larock R VCH Publishers 1989 Greene T W et al. 3Ed. John Wiley and Sons 1999 Fieser L et al. John Wiley and Sons 1994 and Paquette L ed. John Wiley and Sons 1995 and subsequent editions thereof.

Combinations of substituents and variables envisioned by this invention are only those that result in the formation of stable compounds.

The invention also provides pyrogen free compositions comprising an effective amount of a compound of Formula I e.g. including any of the formulae herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound and an acceptable carrier. Preferably a composition of this invention is formulated for pharmaceutical use a pharmaceutical composition wherein the carrier is a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier s are acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and in the case of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier not deleterious to the recipient thereof in an amount used in the medicament.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles that may be used in the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention include but are not limited to ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as human serum albumin buffer substances such as phosphates glycine sorbic acid potassium sorbate partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids water salts or electrolytes such as protamine sulfate disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride zinc salts colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone cellulose based substances polyethylene glycol sodium carboxymethylcellulose polyacrylates waxes polyethylene polyoxypropylene block polymers polyethylene glycol and wool fat.

If required the solubility and bioavailability of the compounds of the present invention in pharmaceutical compositions may be enhanced by methods well known in the art. One method includes the use of lipid excipients in the formulation. See Oral Lipid Based Formulations Enhancing the Bioavailability of Poorly Water Soluble Drugs Drugs and the Pharmaceutical Sciences David J. Hauss ed. Informa Healthcare 2007 and Role of Lipid Excipients in Modifying Oral and Parenteral Drug Delivery Basic Principles and Biological Examples Kishor M. Wasan ed. Wiley Interscience 2006.

Another known method of enhancing bioavailability is the use of an amorphous form of a compound of this invention optionally formulated with a poloxamer such as LUTROL and PLURONIC BASF Corporation or block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 014 866 and United States patent publications 20060094744 and 20060079502.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include those suitable for oral rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal or parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous and intradermal administration. In certain embodiments the compound of the formulae herein is administered transdermally e.g. using a transdermal patch or iontophoretic techniques . Other formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form e.g. tablets sustained release capsules and in liposomes and may be prepared by any methods well known in the art of pharmacy. See for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Philadelphia Pa. 17th ed. 1985 .

Such preparative methods include the step of bringing into association with the molecule to be administered ingredients such as the carrier that constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredients with liquid carriers liposomes or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

In certain embodiments the compound is administered orally. Compositions of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules sachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient a powder or granules a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non aqueous liquid an oil in water liquid emulsion a water in oil liquid emulsion packed in liposomes or as a bolus etc. Soft gelatin capsules can be useful for containing such suspensions which may beneficially increase the rate of compound absorption.

In the case of tablets for oral use carriers that are commonly used include lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are also typically added. For oral administration in a capsule form useful diluents include lactose and dried cornstarch. When aqueous suspensions are administered orally the active ingredient is combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening and or flavoring and or coloring agents may be added.

Compositions suitable for oral administration include lozenges comprising the ingredients in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth and pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia.

Compositions suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injections immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets.

Such injection solutions may be in the form for example of a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents such as for example Tween 80 and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are mannitol water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. Fatty acids such as oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables as are natural pharmaceutically acceptable oils such as olive oil or castor oil especially in their polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions may also contain a long chain alcohol diluent or dispersant.

The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration. These compositions can be prepared by mixing a compound of this invention with a suitable non irritating excipient which is solid at room temperature but liquid at the rectal temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum to release the active components. Such materials include but are not limited to cocoa butter beeswax and polyethylene glycols.

The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability fluorocarbons and or other solubilizing or dispersing agents known in the art. See e.g. Rabinowitz J D and Zaffaroni A C U.S. Pat. No. 6 803 031 assigned to Alexza Molecular Delivery Corporation.

Topical administration of the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention is especially useful when the desired treatment involves areas or organs readily accessible by topical application. For topical application topically to the skin the pharmaceutical composition should be formulated with a suitable ointment containing the active components suspended or dissolved in a carrier. Carriers for topical administration of the compounds of this invention include but are not limited to mineral oil liquid petroleum white petroleum propylene glycol polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene compound emulsifying wax and water. Alternatively the pharmaceutical composition can be formulated with a suitable lotion or cream containing the active compound suspended or dissolved in a carrier. Suitable carriers include but are not limited to mineral oil sorbitan monostearate polysorbate 60 cetyl esters wax cetearyl alcohol 2 octyldodecanol benzyl alcohol and water. The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may also be topically applied to the lower intestinal tract by rectal suppository formulation or in a suitable enema formulation. Topically transdermal patches and iontophoretic administration are also included in this invention.

Application of the subject therapeutics may be local so as to be administered at the site of interest. Various techniques can be used for providing the subject compositions at the site of interest such as injection use of catheters trocars projectiles pluronic gel stents sustained drug release polymers or other device which provides for internal access.

Thus according to yet another embodiment the compounds of this invention may be incorporated into compositions for coating an implantable medical device such as prostheses artificial valves vascular grafts stents or catheters. Suitable coatings and the general preparation of coated implantable devices are known in the art and are exemplified in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 099 562 5 886 026 and 5 304 121. The coatings are typically biocompatible polymeric materials such as a hydrogel polymer polymethyldisiloxane polycaprolactone polyethylene glycol polylactic acid ethylene vinyl acetate and mixtures thereof. The coatings may optionally be further covered by a suitable topcoat of fluorosilicone polysaccharides polyethylene glycol phospholipids or combinations thereof to impart controlled release characteristics in the composition. Coatings for invasive devices are to be included within the definition of pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle as those terms are used herein.

According to another embodiment the invention provides a method of coating an implantable medical device comprising the step of contacting said device with the coating composition described above. It will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the coating of the device will occur prior to implantation into a mammal.

According to another embodiment the invention provides a method of impregnating an implantable drug release device comprising the step of contacting said drug release device with a compound or composition of this invention. Implantable drug release devices include but are not limited to biodegradable polymer capsules or bullets non degradable diffusible polymer capsules and biodegradable polymer wafers.

According to another embodiment the invention provides an implantable medical device coated with a compound or a composition comprising a compound of this invention such that said compound is therapeutically active.

According to another embodiment the invention provides an implantable drug release device impregnated with or containing a compound or a composition comprising a compound of this invention such that said compound is released from said device and is therapeutically active.

Where an organ or tissue is accessible because of removal from the patient such organ or tissue may be bathed in a medium containing a composition of this invention a composition of this invention may be painted onto the organ or a composition of this invention may be applied in any other convenient way.

In another embodiment a composition of this invention further comprises a second therapeutic agent. The second therapeutic agent may be selected from any compound or therapeutic agent known to have or that demonstrates advantageous properties when administered with a compound having the same mechanism of action as silodosin. Such agents include those indicated as being useful in combination with silodosin including but not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 235 759 6 228 870 and 6 323 372 US Patent publications Nos US 20050101607 US 20040132728 US 20030225079 published International Application WO 2005 089804 and Canadian Published Application No. 2559646.

In one embodiment the second therapeutic agent is selected from 5 alpha reductase inhibitors e.g. finasteride PROSCAR and dutasteride AVODART HMG CoA reductase inhibitors e.g. atorvastatin LIPITOR lovastatin MEVACOR simvastatin ZOCOR fluvastatin LESCOL pravastatin PRAVACHOL and rosuvastatin CRESTOR EGF receptor antagonists and beta 3 adrenoceptor antagonists.

In a particular embodiment the second agent is a 5 alpha reductase inhibitor. In more particular embodiment the agent is selected from finasteride and dutasteride. In a most particular embodiment the second therapeutic agent is finasteride.

In another embodiment the invention provides separate dosage forms of a compound of this invention and one or more of any of the above described second therapeutic agents wherein the compound and second therapeutic agent are associated with one another. The term associated with one another as used herein means that the separate dosage forms are packaged together or otherwise attached to one another such that it is readily apparent that the separate dosage forms are intended to be sold and administered together within less than 24 hours of one another consecutively or simultaneously .

In the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention the compound of the present invention is present in an effective amount. As used herein the term effective amount refers to an amount which when administered in a proper dosing regimen is sufficient to treat therapeutically or prophylactically the target disorder. For example and effective amount is sufficient to reduce or ameliorate the severity duration or progression of the disorder being treated prevent the advancement of the disorder being treated cause the regression of the disorder being treated or enhance or improve the prophylactic or therapeutic effect s of another therapy.

The interrelationship of dosages for animals and humans based on milligrams per meter squared of body surface is described in Freireich et al. 1966 Cancer Chemother. Rep 50 219. Body surface area may be approximately determined from height and weight of the patient. See e.g. Scientific Tables Geigy Pharmaceuticals Ardsley N.Y. 1970 537.

In one embodiment an effective amount of a compound of this invention can range from about 0.05 mg day to about 500 mg day for example 0.05 mg day to about 100 mg day. Administration can be in one or more doses per day e.g. multiple doses . When multiple doses are used the amount of each dose can be the same or different.

In a particular embodiment an effective amount of a compound of this invention can range from 0.8 mg day to about 80 mg day such as from about 0.8 mg day to about 40 mg day. In a more particular embodiment an effective amount of a compound of this invention can range from about 1.6 mg day to about 20 mg day. For example an effective amount can be about 0.8 mg day about 1.0 mg day about 1.2 mg day about 1.4 mg day about 1.6 mg day about 1.8 mg day about 2 mg day about 3 mg day about 4 mg day or about 8 mg day. In a most particular embodiment an effective amount is 8 mg day administered either in a single dose once a day or in two doses per day. It is preferred that when an effective amount is 8 mg day and dosing is twice a day that the amount in each dose is 4 mg.

Effective doses will also vary as recognized by those skilled in the art depending on the diseases treated the severity of the disease the route of administration the sex age and general health condition of the patient excipient usage the possibility of co usage with other therapeutic treatments such as use of other agents and the judgment of the treating physician. For example guidance for selecting an effective dose can be determined by reference to the prescribing information for silodosin.

For pharmaceutical compositions that comprise a second therapeutic agent an effective amount of the second therapeutic agent is between about 20 and 100 of the dosage normally utilized in a monotherapy regime using just that agent. Preferably an effective amount is between about 70 and 100 of the normal monotherapeutic dose. The normal monotherapeutic dosages of these second therapeutic agents are well known in the art. See e.g. Wells et al. eds. Pharmacotherapy Handbook 2nd Edition Appleton and Lange Stamford Conn. 2000 PDR Pharmacopoeia Tarascon Pocket Pharmacopoeia 2000 Deluxe Edition Tarascon Publishing Loma Linda Calif. 2000 each of which references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

It is expected that some of the second therapeutic agents referenced above will act synergistically with the compounds of this invention. When this occurs it will allow the effective dosage of the second therapeutic agent and or the compound of this invention to be reduced from that required in a monotherapy. This has the advantage of minimizing toxic side effects of either the second therapeutic agent of a compound of this invention synergistic improvements in efficacy improved ease of administration or use and or reduced overall expense of compound preparation or formulation.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of increasing the activity of the alpha 1A adrenoceptor in a cell comprising contacting a cell with one or more compounds of Formula I herein.

According to another embodiment the invention provides a method of treating a disease in a patient in need thereof that is beneficially treated by silodosin comprising the step of administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound or a composition of this invention. Such diseases include but are not limited to benign prostate hyperplasia BPH high intraocular pressure high cholesterol impotency female sexual dysfunction FSD e.g female sexual arousal disorder FSAD and female orgasmic disorder FOD see U.S. Patent Application Publication 20040132697 to Thurlow et al. sympathetically mediated pain cardiac arrhythmia and migraine see Vatz Headache 1997 37 107 108 . The compounds and compositions of the invention can also be used in a method of modulating pupil dilation in subjects in need thereof see U.S. Patent Application Publication 20050080056 to Horn et al. . Such modulation of pupil dilation can for example be used to improved vision of a subject in reduced lighting conditions by reducing excessive pupil dilation.

In one particular embodiment the method of this invention is used to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH in a patient in need thereof.

Methods delineated herein also include those wherein the patient is identified as in need of a particular stated treatment. Identifying a patient in need of such treatment can be in the judgment of a patient or a health care professional and can be subjective e.g. opinion or objective e.g. measurable by a test or diagnostic method .

In another embodiment any of the above methods of treatment comprises the further step of co administering to said patient one or more second therapeutic agents. The choice of second therapeutic agent may be made from any second therapeutic agent known to be useful for co administration with silodosin. The choice of second therapeutic agent is also dependent upon the particular disease or condition to be treated. Examples of second therapeutic agents that may be employed in the methods of this invention are those set forth above for use in combination compositions comprising a compound of this invention and a second therapeutic agent.

In particular the combination therapies of this invention include co administering a compound of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent selected from a 5 alpha reductase inhibitors e.g. finasteride PROSCAR and dutasteride AVODART HMG CoA reductase inhibitors e.g. atorvastatin LIPITOR lovastatin MEVACOR simvastatin ZOCOR fluvastatin LESCOL pravastatin PRAVACHOL and rosuvastatin CRESTOR EGF receptor antagonists and beta 3 adrenoceptor antagonists for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

In a particular embodiment the second agent is a 5 alpha reductase inhibitor and the subject is suffering from benign prostatic hyperplasia. In more particular embodiment the 5 alpha reductase inhibitor is a finasteride or dutasteride. In a most particular embodiment the 5 alpha reductase inhibitor is finasteride.

In an even more specific embodiment the combination therapies of this invention include treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia by administering a compound of Formula I a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a composition of Formula I or a pharmaceutical composition of Formula I in combination with a 5 alpha reductase inhibitor. In a more particular embodiment the 5 alpha reductase inhibitor is a finasteride or dutasteride. In a most particular embodiment the 5 alpha reductase inhibitor is finasteride.

The term co administered as used herein means that the second therapeutic agent may be administered together with a compound of this invention as part of a single dosage form such as a composition of this invention comprising a compound of the invention and an second therapeutic agent as described above or as separate multiple dosage forms. Alternatively the additional agent may be administered prior to consecutively with or following the administration of a compound of this invention. In such combination therapy treatment both the compounds of this invention and the second therapeutic agent s are administered by conventional methods. The administration of a composition of this invention comprising both a compound of the invention and a second therapeutic agent to a patient does not preclude the separate administration of that same therapeutic agent any other second therapeutic agent or any compound of this invention to said patient at another time during a course of treatment.

Effective amounts of these second therapeutic agents are well known to those skilled in the art and guidance for dosing may be found in patents and published patent applications referenced herein as well as in Wells et al. eds. Pharmacotherapy Handbook 2nd Edition Appleton and Lange Stamford Conn. 2000 PDR Pharmacopoeia Tarascon Pocket Pharmacopoeia 2000 Deluxe Edition Tarascon Publishing Loma Linda Calif. 2000 and other medical texts. However it is well within the skilled artisan s purview to determine the second therapeutic agent s optimal effective amount range.

In one embodiment of the invention where a second therapeutic agent is administered to a subject the effective amount of the compound of this invention is less than its effective amount would be where the second therapeutic agent is not administered. In another embodiment the effective amount of the second therapeutic agent is less than its effective amount would be where the compound of this invention is not administered. In this way undesired side effects associated with high doses of either agent may be minimized. Other potential advantages including without limitation improved dosing regimens and or reduced drug cost will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

In yet another aspect the invention provides the use of a compound of Formula I alone or together with one or more of the above described second therapeutic agents in the manufacture of a medicament either as a single composition or as separate dosage forms for treatment or prevention in a patient of a disease disorder or symptom set forth above. Another aspect of the invention is a compound of Formula I for use in the treatment or prevention in a patient of a disease disorder or symptom thereof delineated herein.

The compounds and compositions of this invention are also useful as reagents in methods for determining the concentration of silodosin in solution or biological sample such as plasma examining the metabolism of silodosin and other analytical studies.

According to one embodiment the invention provides a method of determining the concentration in a solution or a biological sample of silodosin comprising the steps of 

Measuring devices that can distinguish silodosin from the corresponding compound of Formula I include any measuring device that can distinguish between two compounds that differ from one another only in isotopic abundance. Exemplary measuring devices include a mass spectrometer NMR spectrometer or IR spectrometer.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of evaluating the metabolic stability of a compound of Formula I comprising the steps of contacting the compound of Formula I with a metabolizing enzyme source for a period of time and comparing the amount of the compound of Formula I with the metabolic products of the compound of Formula I after the period of time.

In a related embodiment the invention provides a method of evaluating the metabolic stability of a compound of Formula I in a patient following administration of the compound of Formula I. This method comprises the steps of obtaining a serum urine or feces sample from the patient at a period of time following the administration of the compound of Formula I to the subject and comparing the amount of the compound of Formula I with the metabolic products of the compound of Formula I in the serum urine or feces sample.

The present invention also provides kits for use to treat a disease or condition selected from benign prostate hyperplasia BPH high intraocular pressure high cholesterol impotency female sexual dysfunction FSD e.g female sexual arousal disorder FSAD and female orgasmic disorder FOD sympathetically mediated pain cardiac arrhythmia and migraine. These kits comprise a a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a salt thereof wherein said pharmaceutical composition is in a container and b instructions describing a method of using the pharmaceutical composition to treat the particular disease or condition. In a specific embodiment the kit is used to treat BPH.

The container may be any vessel or other sealed or sealable apparatus that can hold said pharmaceutical composition. Examples include bottles ampules divided or multi chambered holders bottles wherein each division or chamber comprises a single dose of said composition a divided foil packet wherein each division comprises a single dose of said composition or a dispenser that dispenses single doses of said composition. The container can be in any conventional shape or form as known in the art which is made of a pharmaceutically acceptable material for example a paper or cardboard box a glass or plastic bottle or jar a re sealable bag for example to hold a refill of tablets for placement into a different container or a blister pack with individual doses for pressing out of the pack according to a therapeutic schedule. The container employed can depend on the exact dosage form involved for example a conventional cardboard box would not generally be used to hold a liquid suspension. It is feasible that more than one container can be used together in a single package to market a single dosage form. For example tablets may be contained in a bottle which is in turn contained within a box. In one embodiment the container is a blister pack.

The kits of this invention may also comprise a device to administer or to measure out a unit dose of the pharmaceutical composition. Such device may include an inhaler if said composition is an inhalable composition a syringe and needle if said composition is an injectable composition a syringe spoon pump or a vessel with or without volume markings if said composition is an oral liquid composition or any other measuring or delivery device appropriate to the dosage formulation of the composition present in the kit.

In certain embodiment the kits of this invention may comprise in a separate vessel of container a pharmaceutical composition comprising a second therapeutic agent such as one of those listed above for use for co administration with a compound of this invention.

Synthesis of R 1 3 hydroxypropyl 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 d2 trifluoroethoxy phenoxy d4 ethylamino propyl indoline 7 carboxamide 110.

Synthesis of R 1 3 benzyloxy propyl 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy phenoxy ethyl d amino propyl indoline 7 carbonitrile 16 . Sodium bicarbonate 50 mg 0.60 mmol was added to a solution of bromide 14 150 mg 0.49 mmol and amine 15 200 mg 0.57 mmol in ethanol 1 mL . Amine 15 starting material was prepared as outlined in Japanese patent JP 2006188470 . The mixture was heated in a sealed tube at 105 C. for 6 h then was cooled to room temperature and poured into ethyl acetate 100 mL . The resultant mixture was washed twice with water and the organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel to give 140 mg of 16 and 60 mg of bromide starting material 14. H NMR CDCl 7.25 7.35 m 5H 6.85 7.1 m 6H 4.49 s 2H 3.59 3.7 m 4H 3.5 t 2H 2.83 2.95 m 3H 2.53 2.65 m 1H 2.38 2.45 m 1H 1.9 2.0 m 2H 1.05 d 3H . LCMS m z 574 M H .

Synthesis of R 1 3 hydroxypropyl 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy phenoxy ethyl d amino propyl indoline 7 carbonitrile 17 . A mixture of benzyl ether 16 130 mg 0.23 mmol Pd OH 60 mg 1M HCl 3 mL and ethanol 4 mL was hydrogenated at 30 psi Hfor 2 h. Although reduction was not complete LCMS showed 17 to be the predominant product. The mixture was filtered through celite and concentrated under reduced pressure to give crude 17. LCMS m z 484 M H .

Synthesis of R 1 3 hydroxypropyl 5 2 2 2 2 2 2 d2 trifluoroethoxy phenoxy d4 ethylamino propyl indoline 7 carboxamide Compound 110 . To a solution of crude product 17 from above 30 mg in DMSO 0.5 mL was added 30 HO 0.1 ml . The mixture was stirred for 10 min and 5N NaOH 0.1 mL was added. The mixture was then stirred for 1 h at which time LCMS of the reaction mixture showed that the desired product Compound 110 had formed as the predominant species as determined by HPLC MS. HPLC method 20 mm C18 RP column gradient method 2 95 ACN 0.1 formic acid in 3.3 min with 1.7 min hold at 95 ACN Wavelength 254 nm retention time 2.37 min. LCMS m z 502 M H .

Synthesis of 1 2 bromo d4 ethoxy 2 2 2 2 d2 trifluoroethoxy benzene 14. Intermediate 14 was prepared according to the procedure outlined in Scheme 7 below.

Synthesis of 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 1 d tosylate 10 . A mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 1 d 4.0 g 39.2 mmol and p toluenesulfonyl chloride 9.0 g 43.6 mmol was cooled in an ice bath and pyridine 12 mL was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 4 h poured into a separatory funnel containing ice water shaken then extracted with ethyl acetate 250 mL . The organic phase was washed sequentially with 2M sulfuric acid 2 100 mL aqueous sodium bicarbonate brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel to give 6.8 g 68 of 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 1 dtosylate 10. H NMR CDCl 7.82 d 2H 7.40 d 2H 2.45 s 3H . LCMS m z 257 M H .

Synthesis of 1 methoxy 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy benzene 11 . A mixture of guaiacol 1.67 g 13.5 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 1 dtosylate 10 3.80 g 14.8 mmol potassium carbonate 3.70 g 26.8 mmol and N N dimethylformamide 25 mL was heated and stirred at 140 150 C. for 4 h then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water 200 mL was added to the reaction mixture and the mixture extracted with 1 1 MTBE hexanes 2 150 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with MTBE 2 100 mL the organic solutions combined and washed sequentially with 0.5N NaOH 100 mL water 3 100 mL brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel to give 2.30 g 75 of 1 methoxy 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy benzene 11 and 0.6 g of the starting tosylate 10. H NMR CDCl 7.02 m 2H 6.9 m 2H 3.85 s 3H .

Synthesis of 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy phenol 12 . To a solution of 1 methoxy 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy benzene 11 1.82 g 8.74 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL cooled in an ice bath was added boron tribromide 1.8 mL . The resultant solution was stirred for 0.5 h ice was added and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. The mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel and extracted with ethyl acetate 200 mL . The organic phase was washed with water aqueous sodium bicarbonate brine and dried over sodium sulfate. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was passed through a short silica gel column to give 1.44 g of 12. H NMR CDCl 6.96 m 2H 6.85 m 2H 5.52 s 1H . LCMS did not show a molecular ion.

Synthesis of 1 2 bromoethoxy d 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 d ethoxy benzene 14 . A mixture of alcohol 12 1.2 g 6.18 mmol 1 2 dibromoethane d13 0.8 mL NaOH 0.27 g 6.75 mmol and water 10 mL was heated at 120 C. for 10 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was diluted with water 30 mL the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and the organic phase was washed with 1M HCl brine and dried over sodium sulfate. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel to give 960 mg of 14. H NMR CDCl 7.03 m 2H 6.95 m 2H . LCMS m z 304 M H .

Certain in vitro liver metabolism studies have been described previously in the following references each of which is incorporated herein in their entirety Obach R S Drug Metab Disp 1999 27 1350 Houston J B et al. Drug Metab Rev 1997 29 891 Houston J B Biochem Pharmacol 1994 47 1469 Iwatsubo T et al. Pharmacol Ther 1997 73 147 and Lave T et al. Pharm Res 1997 14 152.

Microsomal Assay The metabolic stability of compounds of Formula I is tested using pooled liver microsomal incubations. Full scan LC MS analysis is then performed to detect major metabolites. Samples of the test compounds exposed to pooled human liver microsomes are analyzed using HPLC MS or MS MS detection. For determining metabolic stability multiple reaction monitoring MRM is used to measure the disappearance of the test compounds. For metabolite detection Q1 full scans are used as survey scans to detect the major metabolites.

Experimental Procedures Human liver microsomes are obtained from a commercial source e.g. XenoTech LLC Lenexa Kans. . The incubation mixtures are prepared as follows 

Incubation of Test Compounds with Liver Microsomes The reaction mixture minus cofactors is prepared. An aliquot of the reaction mixture without cofactors is incubated in a shaking water bath at 37 C. for 3 minutes. Another aliquot of the reaction mixture is prepared as the negative control. The test compound is added into both the reaction mixture and the negative control at a final concentration of 1 M. An aliquot of the reaction mixture is prepared as a blank control by the addition of plain organic solvent not the test compound . The reaction is initiated by the addition of cofactors not into the negative controls and then incubated in a shaking water bath at 37 C. Aliquots 200 L are withdrawn in triplicate at multiple time points e.g. 0 15 30 60 and 120 minutes and combined with 800 L of ice cold 50 50 acetonitrile dHO to terminate the reaction. The positive controls testosterone and propranolol as well as silodosin are each run simultaneously with the test compounds in separate reactions. All samples are analyzed using LC MS or MS MS . An LC MRM MS MS method is used for metabolic stability. Also Q1 full scan LC MS methods are performed on the blank matrix and the test compound incubation samples. The Q1 scans serve as survey scans to identify any sample unique peaks that might represent the possible metabolites. The masses of these potential metabolites can be determined from the Q1 scans.

SUPERSOMES Assay. Various human cytochrome P450 specific SUPERSOMES are purchased from Gentest Woburn Mass. USA . A 1.0 mL reaction mixture containing 25 pmole of SUPERSOMES 2.0 mM NADPH 3.0 mM MgCl and 1 M of a compound of test compound in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 is incubated at 37 C. in triplicate. Positive controls contain 1 M of silodosin instead of test compound. Negative controls used Control Insect Cell Cytosol insect cell microsomes that lacked any human metabolic enzyme purchased from GenTest Woburn Mass. USA . Aliquots 50 L are removed from each sample and placed in wells of a multi well plate at various time points e.g. 0 2 5 7 12 20 and 30 minutes and to each aliquot is added 50 L of ice cold acetonitrile with 3 M haloperidol as an internal standard to stop the reaction.

Plates containing the removed aliquots are placed in 20 C. freezer for 15 minutes to cool. After cooling 100 L of deionized water is added to all wells in the plate. Plates are then spun in the centrifuge for 10 minutes at 3000 rpm. A portion of the supernatant 100 L is then removed placed in a new plate and analyzed using Mass Spectrometry.

Without further description it is believed that one of ordinary skill in the art can using the preceding description and the illustrative examples make and utilize the compounds of the present invention and practice the claimed methods. It should be understood that the foregoing discussion and examples merely present a detailed description of certain preferred embodiments. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that various modifications and equivalents can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. All the patents journal articles and other documents discussed or cited above are herein incorporated by reference.

