---

title: Embedding a cloud-based resource request in a specification language wrapper
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for embedding a cloud-based resource request in a specification language wrapper. In embodiments, a set of applications and/or a set of appliances can be registered to be instantiated in a cloud-based network. Each application or appliance can have an associated set of specified resources with which the user wishes to instantiate those objects. For example, a user may specify a maximum latency for input/output of the application or appliance, a geographic location of the supporting cloud resources, a processor throughput, or other resource specification to instantiate the desired object. According to embodiments, the set of requested resources can be embedded in a specification language wrapper, such as an XML object. The specification language wrapper can be transmitted to a marketplace to seek the response of available clouds which can support the application or appliance according to the specifications contained in the specification language wrapper.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782233&OS=08782233&RS=08782233
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08782233
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for embedding a cloud based resource request in a specification language wrapper and more particularly to platforms and techniques for incorporating application and or software appliance specifications into an instantiation or update request to a cloud based network.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application. Another type of software entity that has found certain application in certain spaces is software appliances which generally speaking can represent relatively self contained software installations including full or customized partial operating system installations combined with selected applications in a single installation or update package.

Currently when a user desires to can lease or subscribe to the set of resources the user may request the set of resources based on their service level requirements and then receive a price for the request. Currently no mechanism exists for users to view different pricing information for different service levels or based on different source clouds. Additionally no mechanism exists for users to view pricing information for differentiated service or resource levels that may be required for different installed software applications and or software appliances. Thus there is a need in the art for methods and systems that provide relevant service level and subscription cost information that is differentiated according to the target application and or appliance that a user wishes to instantiated or update from the cloud.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for systems and methods for embedding a cloud based resource request in a specification language wrapper. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for generating a cloud based resource request for one or more applications and or one or more software appliances in which the application appliance requests processing memory network and or other resources to instantiate or update those objects. According to various embodiments the cloud based resource request can be incorporated embedded or wrapped in a specification language wrapper that permits the requesting user or resource to specify in greater detail the types of applications operating system memory or other resources the requesting application appliance will need to be instantiated and or updated. The specification language wrapper can be or include for example extensible markup language XML or other languages code or platforms. According to embodiments the cloud based resource request with specification language wrapper can be transmitted to a marketplace system or platform configured to communicate with a set of clouds. The marketplace system can interrogate the set of clouds to identify those clouds having available resources matching or most closely matching the resources and parameters specified in the cloud based resource requested embedded in the specification language wrapper. The marketplace system via an internal management server or other logic can use that data to identify and extract and collect the requested resources. The marketplace system can then aggregate or transmit the corresponding resources to instantiate and or update the requesting application and or software appliance on a differentiated basis according to the particular needs of the requesting object.

Embodiments of the present teachings thereby relate to systems and methods which operate in a marketplace environment based on cloud computing networks. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a cloud marketplace system provides details on the resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments to allow users to evaluate the resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments in relation to the specific requirements of desired applications and or software appliances.

According to embodiments in general the overall cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with multiple cloud computing environments in order to ascertain the details for the resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments. In particular the cloud marketplace system can be configured to retrieve from the cloud computing environments resource and service data which describes the capabilities services status and cost of the cloud computing environment. The resource and service data can include computing resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments computing resources and services available in the cloud computing environments at particular time periods cost data for computing resources and services provided by the cloud computing environments and status data for the cloud computing environments at particular time periods.

In embodiments in order to acquire the resource and service data the cloud marketplace system can be configured to request the resource and service data from cloud management systems located in the cloud computing environments. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the resources of the cloud computing environments directly in order to obtain the resource and service data.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to maintain a repository for the resource and service data in order to provide the marketplace for the cloud computing environments. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to update the repository periodically to maintain current resource and service data for the cloud computing environments. Likewise when providing the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can obtain the resource and service data on demand and directly from the cloud computing environments.

In embodiments to provide the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can be configured receive a request for information pertaining to the resources or services provided by or available in the cloud computing environments. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to search the repository for resource and service data relating to the request. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to obtain the resource and service data directly from the cloud computing environments. Once located the cloud marketplace system can be configured to generate a marketplace report detailing the resource and service data matching the request. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to provide the report to initiator of the request.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to utilize the resource and service data to provide migration services for virtual machines initiated in the cloud computing environments. In particular for a particular virtual machine or machines the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive a request to monitor the resource and service data of the cloud computing environments for the occurrence of a particular event. The event can be occur when a portion of the resource and service data reaches a threshold value received in the request to migrate. The cloud marketplace system can be configured to monitor the cloud computing environments in order to determine when the resources or services data indicates the occurrence of the event. Upon occurrence of the event the cloud marketplace system can be configured to migrate the virtual machine or machines to a new cloud computing environment with the resources and services data matching the event.

By providing a marketplace for the services and resources of cloud computing environments users can perform efficient cost accounting for shopping for and migrations of existing and planned workloads to the best possible cloud computing environment. As such the user can locate and find the best priced and best quality service for their intended applications and or software appliances. Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present teachings which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Where possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the clouds in order to ascertain the details for the resources and services provided by the clouds . In particular the cloud marketplace system can be configured to retrieve from the clouds resource and service data which describes the capabilities services status and cost of the clouds . The resource and service data can include data detailing computing resources and services provided by the clouds computing resources and services available in the clouds at particular time periods cost for the services provided by the clouds and status for the clouds at particular time periods.

In embodiments the data detailing the computing resources and services provided by the clouds can include resource data specifying the sets of resources servers contained in the clouds and the computing resources provided by the sets of resources servers computing cycles bandwidth memory storage . Additionally the data detailing the computing resources and services provided by the clouds can include service data specifying particular services provided by the clouds such as identity management services cloud management services application and appliance building services and the like.

In embodiments the data detailing the computing resources and services available in the clouds at particular time periods can include data specifying computing resources and services available in the clouds current or at some future time. Additionally the data detailing the computing resources and services available in the clouds at particular time periods can include data specifying service level agreements for the cloud for a period of time.

In embodiments the data detailing the cost for the resources and services provided by the clouds can include data such as the cost for subscription to the clouds the cost for usage of the resources and services of the clouds and discounts of the costs based on the usage. For example the cost for usage can include the cost for the resources consumed to support the virtual machines and can include the cost for the utilization of the virtual machines by the user or third parties. These can include the cost for the instantiated time of the virtual machines the computing resource consumed by the virtual machines computing cycles bandwidth the time frame of the computing resource consumption peak time off peak time and combinations thereof. The cost data can include cost data for a current time or cost data for resources and services in the future.

In embodiments the data detailing the status for the clouds at particular time periods can include data specifying the resources and services current being utilized in the clouds . For example the status data can include virtual machines currently instantiated in the clouds and the computing resources of the sets of resources servers computing cycles bandwidth memory storage currently utilized.

In embodiments in order to acquire the resource and service data the cloud marketplace system can be configured to request the resource and service data from cloud management systems located in the clouds . Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the set of resource servers directly in order to obtain the resource and service data . The cloud marketplace system can be configured to communicate with the clouds via network or any other available public or private network. In particular marketplace engine can be configured to communicate with the clouds .

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to maintain a repository for the resource and service data in order to provide the marketplace for the clouds . In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to maintain the repository . The repository can be configured in any format to allow the resource and service data to be stored and retrieved. For example the repository can be configured in any type of proprietary or open source database format. The repository can include a record for each cloud that includes various searchable data fields for storing the resource and service data for that particular cloud.

The cloud marketplace system can be configured to update the repository periodically to maintain current resource and service data for the clouds . Likewise when providing the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can be configured to obtain the resource and service data on demand and directly from the clouds .

In embodiments to provide the marketplace the cloud marketplace system can be configured receive a request for information pertaining to the resources or services provided by or available in the clouds . For example a initiator may request information on clouds that can provide a certain level of computing resources at a specific cost during a specific time period. The initiator of the request the information in order to see all available resources of the clouds that may meet the initiators requirements. As such the request can include the information regarding the resources desired by the initiator. This can include the desired computing resources the time period for the resources the duration of the resources the cost of the resources services provided by the cloud the availability of the resources and the like.

In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to communicate with the initiator of the request via API . API can be configured to generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by marketplace engine and to provide an interface for receiving requests. The initiator of the request can be a user desiring utilization of the clouds or the cloud management systems of the clouds .

Once the request is received the cloud marketplace system can be configured to search the repository for resource and service data relating to the request. In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to access the repository stored in marketplace store and search the repository for resource and service data matching the request. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to obtain the resource and service data directly from the clouds .

Once located the cloud marketplace system can be configured to generate a marketplace report detailing the resource and service data matching the request. For example the marketplace report can include a list of clouds matching the request alone with the data detailing computing resources and services provided by the matching clouds computing resources and services available in the matching clouds at particular time periods specified in the request cost for the services and resources requested and status for the matching clouds at particular time periods specified in the request.

In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to extract the matching resource and service data from repository . Marketplace engine can be configured to arrange the matching resource and service data in marketplace report .

After generating the marketplace report the cloud marketplace system can be configured to provide the marketplace report to the initiator of the request. In particular the marketplace engine can be configured to provide the marketplace report via API .

Once the report is received the initiator or the user can make a determination on which resources of the clouds to utilize. This can include utilizing resources from a single cloud or resources from multiple clouds . For example the initiator can select one or more cloud with which to instantiate a virtual machine or machines. The initiator can make a request for the resources directly to the clouds . Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive the initiators requests for resources and forward the request to the clouds or reserve the resources directly.

In embodiments the cloud marketplace system can be configured to utilize the resource and service data to provide automatic migration services for virtual machines initiated in the clouds . In particular the migration engine can be configured to contain control logic for performing the migration processes and for communicating with the clouds API and marketplace store .

In embodiments for a particular virtual machine or machines instantiated in one of the clouds the cloud marketplace system can be configured to receive a request to monitor the resource and service data of the clouds for the occurrence of a particular event. The event can be the occurrence of a particular resource or service becoming available in a cloud . The event can be occur when a portion of the resource and service data reaches a threshold value received in the request to migrate. For example a user can request that the cloud marketplace system migrate a virtual machine or machines when a particular computing resources at a specified cost becomes available in one of the clouds .

In particular the migration engine can be configured to communicate with the user or the initiator of the request via API . API can be configured to generate GUIs e.g. dialog boxes web pages as required by migration engine and to provide an interface for receiving requests.

To migrate the virtual machine or machines the cloud marketplace system can be configured to monitor the clouds in order to determine when the resources or services data indicates the occurrence of the event. In particular the migration engine can be configured to periodically search the repository for the resources and services data matching event. Likewise the migration engine can be configured to obtain the resource and service data periodically directly from the clouds .

Upon occurrence of the event the cloud marketplace system can be configured to migrate the virtual machine or machines to a new cloud with the resources and services data matching the event. For example the cloud marketplace system can determine that a new cloud has resources or services available that match the user s request and can migrate the virtual machines to the new cloud . In particular the migration engine can be configured send an instruction to the cloud currently instantiating the virtual machine or machines to migrate the virtual machine or machines to the new cloud . The instruction can include an identification of the virtual machine or machines and an identification of the new cloud . Likewise the migration engine can be configured to retrieve the virtual machine or machines from the cloud currently instantiating the virtual machine or machines and pass the virtual machine or machines to the new cloud for instantiation.

Once migrated the cloud marketplace system can be configured to notify the user or initiator of the migration. In particular migration engine can be configured to notify the user or initiator via API .

In embodiments as shown the instantiation or update request embedded within a specification language wrapper can be transmitted to a cloud marketplace system . Cloud marketplace system can serve as a collection point and market crossing point for resource request on the one hand and source clouds on the other. The instantiation or update request embedded within a specification language wrapper can be received and decoded via a marketplace engine within or associated with cloud marketplace system . Marketplace engine or another management server or logic can identify required resources based on that data and interrogate a set of clouds to identify clouds having the requested resources. The marketplace engine can then aggregate and or transmit or channel those resources to the requesting application and or appliance on a highly tailored basis. In embodiments the marketplace engine can monitor the set of applications set of software appliances and or set of clouds to detect further requests updates and or changes in service level. Marketplace engine in embodiments can generate new resource requests and reconfigure source clouds to meet resource requirements that may vary over time.

While illustrates the cloud marketplace system as a standalone system comprises a combination of hardware and software the cloud marketplace system can also be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by a convention computer platform. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the cloud marketplace system can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language.

Additionally as illustrated in the cloud marketplace system can be a standalone system capable of being access by or controlled by a user or initiator of the marketplace and migration processes. Likewise the cloud marketplace system can be integrated into one or more of the clouds . Additionally the cloud marketplace system can be integrated into one or more of the systems of the clouds such as the cloud management systems.

In the instantiation or update request embedded within specification language wrapper can be transmitted from a user client device virtual machine or other source to a cloud marketplace system including a marketplace engine . In the cloud marketplace system can receive the instantiation or update request embedded within specification language wrapper . In the cloud marketplace system via marketplace engine or other logic can decode the instantiation or update request embedded within specification language wrapper . In the marketplace engine or other logic can identify the necessary hardware software input output I O network and or other resources required by specification language wrapper and other data. In the marketplace engine or other logic can interrogate a set of clouds to identify clouds that have the resources corresponding to those specified in specification language wrapper or other data. In the management server can extract the matching or most nearly matching resources and aggregate transmit or install those resources to the requesting application appliance. In one or more applications in set of applications and or one or more software appliances in set of appliances can be instantiated and or updated or modified using the resources extracted from set of clouds . In the cloud marketplace system can monitor for further resource requests and or specification language wrappers to generate a new set of extracted resources from set of clouds as appropriate. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which applications in set of application and or appliances within set of appliances can have the same or consistent resource requirements in embodiments various applications and or software appliances can have diverse and or non overlapping requirements for processor memory or any other resources. In further regards resources described as singular or integrated in some embodiments can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as embodiments as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

