---

title: Mobility management of multiple clusters within a wireless communications network
abstract: Aspects of mobility management within a wireless communications network including a plurality of sectors are disclosed. In an example, the wireless communications network includes a first cluster of sectors with at least one target sector and at least one supporting sector. The multicast communication session is carried within both the target and supporting sectors. In another example, a second cluster can be included within the network for supporting the same multicast communication session that includes its own target and supporting sectors. In this example, the first cluster transmits multicast media on a first interlace-multiplex (IM) pair of a downlink broadcast channel (BCH) and the second cluster transmits multicast media on a second IM pair of the downlink BCH. If sectors of the first and second clusters overlap, the network controls a manner in which the first and second clusters carry the multicast media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086179&OS=08086179&RS=08086179
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08086179
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080917
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 800 entitled Methods of Providing Mobility Support for Multicast Communications within a Wireless Communications Network filed Sep. 24 2007 to Provisional Application No. 60 974 808 entitled Methods of Supporting Multicast Communications Associated with Overlapping Clusters within a Wireless Communication Network filed on Sep. 24 2007 and to Provisional Application No. 60 974 814 entitled Methods for Providing Mobility Support for Multicast Communication within a Wireless Communications Network filed Sep. 24 2007 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication network and more particularly to methods of mobility management of multiple clusters within a wireless communications network.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Methods of mobility management within a wireless communications network including a plurality of sectors are provided. In an example the wireless communications network includes a first cluster of sectors with at least one target sector and at least one supporting sector. The target sectors are sectors where a target access terminal for a multicast communication session is expected. The supporting sectors are sectors where target access terminals are not expected and are configured to support the target sectors. The multicast communication session is carried within both the target and supporting sectors. In an example the supporting sectors are determined based on neighbor sectors of the target sectors. In another example the supporting sectors are determined based on a supporting sector value that corresponds to a number of sectors for supporting the target sector. In another example a second cluster can be included within the network for supporting the same multicast communication session that includes its own target and supporting sectors. In this example the first cluster transmits multicast media on a first interlace multiplex IM pair of a downlink broadcast channel BCH and the second cluster transmits multicast media on a second IM pair of the downlink BCH. If sectors of the first and second clusters overlap the network controls a manner in which the first and second clusters carry the multicast media.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

For communicating a given access terminal s desire to speak to a given multicast group once the user has joined a standing call group the mobile station or access terminal transmits appropriate control messages to the application server which may be configured to support push to talk PTT functionality and may thereby be referred to as a PTT application server . Once the user is granted the floor the user s voice or other data is transmitted to the RAN and on to the PTT application server . The data is in turn processed by the PTT application server and routed back to the RAN for transmission to the other mobile stations or access terminals in the call group as a broadcast multicast service BCMCS flow. As used herein a BCMCS flow is a packet data stream transmitted according to BCMCS protocols procedures. The PTT application server may transmit various control messages to inform call group members of when user data is being carried on their group channel.

BCMCS protocols use a downlink broadcast channel BCH e.g. such as a High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface to deliver content to subscribers to one or more multicast groups. Unlike 1x EVDO s forward link point to point traffic channels in which associated reverse link channels provide various acknowledgements and ongoing forward link channel quality feedback e.g. as may be the case in transmissions between a base station and mobile station in a CDMA network there is no reverse link channel associated with the BCH. In other words in order to scale the number of multicast group members in a given multicast group without necessitating additional delays due to waiting for acknowledgments conventional BCMCS protocols provide for an unacknowledged delivery of packet data streams. Generally multicast messaging for a particular multicast group which may correspond to a series of multicast packets being sent on the BCH from the RAN to one or more multicast group members may be referred to as a flow in the RAN and each flow is allocated a unique BCMCS flow identifier or BCMCS flow ID e.g. alternatively referred to as BCMCS FLOW ID BCMCSFlowID etc .

Broadcast overhead messages BOMs carried over the 1x EVDO forward link in a conventional BCMCS system inform the mobile stations or access terminals of the BCMCS flows which are currently being carried in a particular sector. They also provide information on which forward link physical layer timeslots should be decoded to receive the desired packet flows and information on the number of physical layer slots per broadcast physical layer packet and physical layer rate used to transmit the flow so called logical to physical mapping . Accordingly BOMs inform multicast group members which slot or slots to tune on the BCH for one or more BCMCS flows. Conventionally BOMs are sent periodically such as for example once every 426 milliseconds on a reversed slot or slots of a downlink control channel cycle.

Conventionally when an access terminal enters a new cell or sector e.g. upon power up after a handoff etc. the access terminal decodes received BOM s and looks for flow identifiers associated with its static multicast groups. If one or more desired BCMCS flows are not indicated in the BOM then the access terminal may send an autonomous BCMCS flow registration message requesting one or more BCMCS flows. A BCMCS flow registration may also be sent if explicitly solicited by the RAN via a given register field within the BOM such as a register for dynamic broadcast RFDB field or a register for paging RFP field. While embodiments of the present invention are described below as either suppressing or prompting AT feedback based on a logic level setting of the RFDB field it will be appreciated that alternative embodiments of the present invention may be directed to prompting suppressing AT feedback via the RFP field of the BOM and or any other well known field sent on a downlink scheduling message such as a BOM.

Generally if the RFDB is set to a first logic level e.g. a higher logic level or logic 1 for a BCMCS flow A within the BOM e.g. RFDB 1 BCMCS flow 1A then all multicast group members within the sector receiving the BOM and members of the multicast group corresponding to BCMCS flow A either send or re send the BCMCS flow registrations for BCMCS flow A. Otherwise if the RFDB is set to a second logic level e.g. a lower logic level or logic 0 for a BCMCS flow A within the BOM e.g. RFDB 0 BCMCS flow 1A then multicast group members monitoring BCMCS flow A on the BCH within the sector receiving the BOM do not send or re send BCMCS flow registrations for BCMCS flow A.

If a given BCMCS flow is carried on the BOM and associated with an RFDB field where RFDB 1 a BCMCS flow registration message may be triggered from one or more ATs within the sector. However as the number of ATs within a given sector increase the number of BCMCS flow registration messages may likewise increase which may waste system resources on the access channel.

As discussed above BCMCS registration messages in high density sectors of a wireless communications network may become problematic and degrade system resources. Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention will now be described wherein the number of BCMCS flow registration messages may be reduced via more efficient multicast group sector management and the RAN may be better able to handle high density sectors as well as mobility of multicast group members between sectors.

In of the RAN determines an initial set of target sectors for an initial cluster . As used herein a target sector is any sector within a wireless communication system having at least one multicast group member. As used herein a cluster corresponds to a set of sectors e.g. one or more sectors upon which the BCH carries the BCMCS flow for a particular multicast group. As will be described below in greater detail the cluster includes both target sectors and supporting sectors for a particular multicast group or BCMCS flow.

Returning to of the RAN may determine the initial set of target sectors in any of a number of ways. For example the determination may be based on group member reports periodically provided to the RAN from one or more ATs within a wireless communication system.

In of after reporting the group membership information the given AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes voice calls plays video games etc. . In the given AT determines whether to update its location information with a supplemental route update report or alternatively whether to update its group membership information with a supplemental group membership report. The determination of step may be performed in any of a number of ways. For example the determining step may be based on a distance based registration DBR protocol such that the given AT updates its location information after traversing a given distance e.g. based on which sector the given AT has traversed etc. . The given distance may be based on to which base stations the given AT has been handed off which base stations the given AT has been monitoring while in an idle state etc. In an alternative example the determination of may be based on a given period such that the given AT provides a report to the RAN once for each period. In another alternative example the given AT may send a route update report or location update to the RAN each time the given AT enters a new location area LA where each LA corresponds to a portion of a subnet or PCF area e.g. as defined by the RAN . In another alternative example the determining may be based on whether the given AT wishes to change its group membership information e.g. the given AT wants to monitor a new multicast group communication wants to stop monitoring a previously requested multicast group communication etc. .

If the given AT determines not to update its location information and or its group membership information in the process of returns to and the given AT resumes normal operation. Otherwise in the given AT sends a supplemental report e.g. one or more of a location or route update report or a supplemental group membership report to the RAN before returning to of .

While the multicast group members or ATs provide group member reports to the RAN the RAN monitors the reports. The RAN maintains a database including the number of ATs belonging to any particular group which ATs belong to which group how recently each group member has provided a group member report a position e.g. sector of each group member etc. The position of each group member may be stored at the RAN as being within a particular multicast area MA where each MA corresponds to a group of contiguous sectors which potentially serve one or more group members e.g. potentially because the location of the group members may not be in the granularity of a sector because the group members may not respond to an interactive multicast message etc. . In an example more than one MA may be identified for a group if group members are geographically dispersed.

The process of is described in more detail within Provisional Application No. 60 974 830 entitled Methods of tracking locations of multicast group members within a wireless communication system filed Sep. 24 2007 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Accordingly returning to of the initial set of target sectors may be determined based on information provided within the group member reports from the ATs and maintained at the RAN . However it will be appreciated that the initialization of the cluster in of may be performed in any number of ways. For example all sectors may initially be set as supporting sectors after which each sector tests whether any multicast group members are present thereby establishing which sectors are targets. This example will be appreciated upon a review of FIGS. and below.

Next in of the RAN determines an initial set of supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow. In an example the initial set of supporting sectors may be based on the initial set of target sectors. For example the supporting sectors may correspond to any sector adjacent to one or more target sectors which itself is not a target sector. Alternatively a supporting sector may correspond to a sector in a given proximity to a target sector without actually being adjacent to the target sector.

In of the RAN determines an initial set of non supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow. The initial set of non supporting sectors for the BCMCS flow includes any sector within the wireless system which is neither a target sector as determined in of nor a supporting sector as determined in of .

In of the RAN executes target sector and supporting sector processes at the respective target and supporting sectors. An example target sector process is described below with respect to while an example supporting sector process is described below with respect to . Next in of the RAN updates the sector assignments of the cluster e.g. adds new target supporting sectors removes target supporting sectors etc. as will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

Examples of target sector behavior supporting sector behavior and non supporting sector behavior will now be described with respect to .

In of the RAN initializes a first timer TIMER for the target sector TARGET. In an example the first timer TIMER may be established by a system designer based on any well known performance criteria e.g. a longer period may be selected to advertise the BCMCS flow longer and reduce congestion etc. . In the RAN in the target sector TARGET transmits a BOM advertising the BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 0 denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 . After transmitting the BOM the RAN for the target sector TARGET waits a given BOM period e.g. a periodic interval between successive BOMs as determined by a system designer in of . Next in the RAN determines whether the first timer TIMER has expired. If the first timer TIMER has not expired the process returns to of otherwise the process advances to of .

In of the RAN initializes a second timer TIMER for the target sector TARGET. In an example the second timer TIMER may be established by a system designer based on any well known performance criteria e.g. a longer period may be selected to wait for a BCMCS flow registration message for a longer period of time before transitioning to a supporting sector etc. . For example the second timer TIMER may be set to a longer period than that of the BOM period to guarantee that at least one BOM is sent. Accordingly in the RAN in the target sector TARGET transmits a BOM by setting RFDB to 1 denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 . After transmitting the BOM the RAN determines whether a BCMCS flow registration message has been received for the target sector TARGET before the timer TIMER expires in of . If one or more BCMCS flow registration messages are received before the expiration of the second timer T the process returns to of . Otherwise if no BCMCS flow registration messages are received before the expiration of the second timer TIMER the process advances to and the target sector TARGET transitions to a supporting sector SUPPORT .

As illustrated in and described above the first timer TIMER corresponds to a period where the BOM advertises the BCMCS flow T FLOW and sets RFDB 0 to suppress AT feedback whereas the second timer TIMER corresponds to a period where the BOM advertises the BCMCS flow T FLOW and sets RFDB 1. However in an alternative embodiment the second timer TIMER may correspond to a period where the BOM is not advertised at all. Thus in this alternative embodiment feedback is prompted by the lack of advertising for the BCMCS flow. The alternative embodiment discussed above may for example reduce congestion.

Referring to in the RAN in the supporting sector SUPPORT transmits a BOM advertising the BCMCS flow and setting RFDB to 1 denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 . Next in the RAN in the supporting sector SUPPORT determines whether any BCMCS flow registrations for T FLOW have been received. If one or more BCMCS flow registration messages for T FLOW are determined to have been received the process advances to of and the supporting sector SUPPORT transitions to a target sector TARGET. Otherwise the process advances to . In of the RAN determines whether any adjacent target sectors are present relative to the supporting sector SUPPORT. If no adjacent target sectors are detected the process advances to . In of the supporting sector SUPPORT is transitioned to a non supporting sector NON SUPPORT . After transitioning to the non supporting sector NON SUPPORT the non sector supporting sector NON SUPPORT does not carry the BCMCS flow for T FLOW on the BCH and does not transmit BOMs for the BCMCS flow T FLOW.

Returning to if one or more adjacent target sectors are determined to be present the RAN for the supporting sector SUPPORT waits the given BOM period in and then returns to .

In of in target sector T the RAN transmits a BOM indicating the BCMCS flow T FLOW along with a register for dynamic broadcast RFDB set to the second logic level e.g. a lower logic level or logic 0 which may be denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 . Accordingly the BOM sent by the RAN in target sector T in of instructs multicast group members which are listening to the BCMCS flow T FLOW not to send a BCMCS flow registration message for the BCMCS flow T FLOW e.g. see of . In contrast the RAN in supporting sector N which is also transmitting the BCMCS flow T FLOW on the BCH transmits the BOM indicating the BCMCS flow T FLOW along with a register for dynamic broadcast RFDB set to the first logic level e.g. a higher logic level or logic 1 which may be denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 e.g. see of . Accordingly the BOM sent by the RAN in supporting sector N in of instructs multicast group members which are listening to the BCMCS flow T FLOW and present within supporting sector N if any are present to send a BCMCS flow registration message for the BCMCS flow T FLOW. Hereinafter for the sake of simplicity the BOM sent by the RAN in target sector T in may be denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 and the BOM sent by the RAN in supporting sector N in may be denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 .

After waiting the given BOM period e.g. see of of the RAN at target sector T resends the BOM in e.g. configured the same as and the RAN at supporting sector N resends the BOM in e.g. configured the same as .

Next in of the AT E leaves the target sector T and enters the supporting sector N as shown in . In of the AT E waits a short period of time e.g. equal to a BOM period to determine whether a BCMCS flow registration message needs to be transmitted for the new sector e.g. no BCMCS flow registration message need be transmitted if the new sector is already a target sector . In the RAN for target sector T transmits another BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 because the target sector T is still an active target sector e.g. AT D is still present within T as shown in and the RAN at target sector T is not yet aware that AT E is no longer in T and it is assumed that the first timer TIMER for the target sector T has not expired e.g. see of . In of the RAN in supporting sector N again transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 . In the AT E receives the BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 and interprets the BOM as a request to send a BCMCS flow registration message. Accordingly the AT E sends the BCMCS flow registration message for T FLOW in . Next having received a BCMCS flow registration message the supporting sector N transitions to target sector T in e.g. see of as shown in . Likewise as shown in the RAN instructs non supporting sectors X and X to transition into supporting sectors N and N respectively in and respectively of .

Next the RAN transmits the BOMs in the sectors T T N and N as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 respectively in and respectively of in accordance with the processes of and or .

Thus as shown in the description of and a new target sector i.e. T has been added to the cluster for BCMCS flow T FLOW. Likewise previous non supporting sectors X and X transition to supporting sectors N and N respectively because the new target sector T is adjacent to the old non supporting sectors X and X. A process for removing target supporting sectors from the cluster for the BCMCS flow T FLOW will now be described in greater detail.

Next in each of sectors T T N and N the RAN transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 respectively in and respectively of . In of the AT C leaves the target sector T and enters the target sector T as shown in . Accordingly as shown in after AT C leaves target sector T no multicast group members remain therein. In of the AT C waits a short period of time e.g. equal to a BOM period to determine whether a BCMCS flow registration message needs to be transmitted for the new sector e.g. no BCMCS flow registration message need be transmitted if the new sector is already a target sector .

Next in each of sectors T T N and N the RAN transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 respectively in and respectively of . Accordingly the AT C need not send a BCMCS flow registration message for BCMCS flow T FLOW because the BOM sent by target sector T has indicated that the BCMCS flow T FLOW is already present on the BCH.

Next in and of assume that the first timer TIMER has expired at each of target sectors T and T. Accordingly in each of sectors T and T the RAN transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 e.g. see of . Also in and the RAN transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 e.g. because N and N are supporting sectors see of .

Because the target sector T transmitted a BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 the AT C transmits a BCMCS flow registration message requesting access to the BCMCS flow T FLOW in of . Accordingly the target sector T transitions to a supporting sector N in e.g. see of and the target sector T maintains its status as a target sector in e.g. see of . Also as shown in the supporting sector N transitions to non supporting sector X in because old supporting sector N is no longer adjacent to a target sector e.g. see of and likewise the supporting sector N transitions to non supporting sector X in because old supporting sector N is no longer adjacent or in a given proximity to a target sector e.g. see of .

Next consistent with target and supporting sector functionality as described above in in the new supporting sector N transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 and the target sector T transmits BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 .

While the above described embodiments of the present invention have generally been directed to controlling AT registration transmissions for multicast groups based on a field setting e.g. an RFDB field an RFP field etc. within the BOM it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the present invention need not be limited to a BOM type implementation. For example a field of any downlink control or scheduling signal may be used to either suppress or prompt feedback from one or more ATs such that BOMs need not be used to achieve such functionality.

As discussed above with respect to a cluster includes target sectors and supporting sectors each of which supports or carries the multicast or PTT session. In the examples provided with respect to above the supporting sectors of the cluster correspond either to i non target sectors that are adjacent to one or more target sectors or ii non target sectors satisfying a given proximity metric e.g. non target sectors within a given distance of one or more target sectors etc. with respect to one or more target sectors and or iii non target sectors satisfying a given signal strength metric e.g. non target sectors providing enough signal strength to multicast group members within one or more target sectors etc. with respect to one or more target sectors. As will be appreciated the adjacency of a non target sector i and the given signal strength metric iii can each be examples of the given proximity metric ii because an adjacent sector orientation and a signal strength level can each be based upon proximity. For example the given signal strength metric of iii can be based on the level of BTS signal strength as received and measured at one or more multicast group members or other ATs within one or more target sectors. In other words if ATs within a target sector detect another sector providing a good signal that sector can be added as a supporting sector. However there are many different ways in which the cluster can be formed and maintained. In particular the manner in which supporting sectors are generated or determined in of can be performed in many alternative ways as will now be described with respect to several illustrative examples in .

In the RAN removes from the neighbor sector group any neighbor sectors that overlap with target sectors in the target sector group. Then in the RAN sets the supporting sector group equal to the resultant neighbor sector group i.e. post target sector removal . Thus because each target sector will be supporting the PTT session target sectors do not require a duplicative classification as support groups.

Accordingly an example application of the process of will now be provided. As described above with respect to assume that ATs A through G are present or expected to be present within target sectors T through T which collectively comprise the initial target sector group. Next assume that target sector T has neighbor sectors T and N target sector T has neighbor sectors T and N target sector T has neighbor sector N and target sector T has neighbor sectors T N and N. With these assumptions the target sector group T T T T is obtained in the neighbor sector group T N T N N N N is obtained in the neighbor sector group is purged of target sectors in N N N N N and the supporting sector group is set equal to the purged neighbor sector group in . illustrates an example of the resultant wireless communication system with non supporting sectors being unlabeled after the process of .

After obtaining the neighbor sector group in the RAN determines in the neighbor sectors for each of the neighbor sectors in the neighbor sector group. Collectively i the neighbor sectors for each of the target sectors of the target sector group ii plus the neighbor sectors for each of the neighbor sectors of the neighbor sectors group correspond to an expanded neighbor sector group . In an example to reduce repetitive processing at the RAN the neighbor sectors for each individual sector individual neighbor sector groups and expanded or second tier individual neighbor sector groups can each be calculated or determined for each sector before the process of is executed. Thus steps and of can actually be performed prior to the execution of such that and are configured to access registers at the RAN that store the results of the earlier execution.

In the RAN removes from the expanded neighbor sector group any neighbor sectors that overlap with target sectors in the target sector group. Then in the RAN sets the supporting sector group equal to the resultant expanded neighbor sector group i.e. post target sector removal .

Accordingly an example application of the process of will now be provided. As described above with respect to assume that ATs A through G are present or expected to be present within target sectors T through T which collectively comprise the initial target sector group. Next assume that target sector T has neighbor sectors T and N target sector T has neighbor sectors T and N target sector T has neighbor sector N and target sector T has neighbor sectors T N and N. Further assume that neighbor sector N has neighbor sector N neighbor sector N has neighbor sector T neighbor sector N has neighbor sectors T and N neighbor sector N has neighbor sector N and neighbor sector N has neighbor sector N. With these assumptions the target sector group T T T T is obtained in the neighbor sector group T N T N N N N is obtained in the expanded neighbor sector group T N T N N N N N T N N N is obtained in the expanded neighbor sector group is purged of target sectors in N N N N N N N N N in and the supporting sector group is set equal to the purged expanded neighbor sector group in . illustrates an example of the resultant wireless communication system with non supporting sectors being unlabeled after the process of .

Further it will be appreciated that the actual number of neighbor sectors allocated to any given sector can be greater than those provided in the examples described in this application. The number of neighbor sectors provided in examples within this application have been reduced to more conveniently explain concepts of the present invention and are not necessarily intended to be indicative of real world implementations of those concepts. Although only a limited number of neighbor sectors have been illustrated in for clarity of explanation conventionally all or almost all adjacent sectors and even sectors next to the adjacent sectors form the list of neighbor sectors for a given AT e.g. T as illustrated in . As shown in target sector T includes nine 9 total neighbor sectors N through N. In other examples the number of neighbor sectors for a given sector could easily exceed twenty. It will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention can be directed to sectors having any number of neighbor sectors.

After obtaining the neighbor sector group in the RAN determines in a supporting sector value. The supporting sector value is a positive integer that corresponds to the number of desired supporting sectors from the perspective of each target sector within the target sector group as will be described in greater detail below. The supporting sectors value can either be a global supporting sectors value such that a single supporting sectors value is selected for each sector or alternatively can be a sector specific supporting sector value that is specially selected or configured for each sector. In an example the supporting sector value s is selected by a system designer and can be established for all PTT sessions or can be specially configured for particular PTT call groups. In the RAN modifies the neighbor sector group based on the supporting sector value as will now be explained in greater detail with respect to .

In the RAN determines whether the number of neighbor sectors within an individual neighbor sector group for a given target sector equals the supporting sector value. If the number of neighbor sectors within the individual neighbor sector group is determined to be equal to the supporting sector value then the process advances to .

Otherwise if the number of neighbor sectors within the individual neighbor sector group is determined not to be equal to the supporting sector value in the RAN determines whether the number of neighbor sectors in the individual neighbor sector group is greater than the supporting sector value. If the RAN determines that the number of neighbor sectors in the individual neighbor sector group is greater than the supporting sector value in then one of the neighbor sectors is removed from the individual neighbor sector group in . For example the RAN knows the geographic locations of each sector within the wireless communication system wherein the geographic location of a sector corresponds to a geographic location of a base station supporting that sector. For example the RAN maintains a table of GPS locations for each base station within the wireless communication system . Accordingly in the removed neighbor sector can be for example the most distant sector within the individual neighbor sector group from the position of the base station within the given target sector e.g. as determined by a simple calculation based on the positions of the neighbor sectors and the position of the given target sector .

Otherwise if the RAN determines that the number of neighbor sectors in the individual neighbor sector group is not greater than i.e. less than the supporting sector value in then a sector is added to the individual neighbor sector group in . For example in the added sector can be the closest sector to the given target sector e.g. determined based on base station location as discussed above that is not within the individual neighbor sector group. Thus as will be appreciated the individual neighbor sector group can be expanded to include sectors that are not necessarily neighbor sectors as defined above.

After a sector is added to the individual neighbor sector group in or removed in the RAN reevaluates the number of sectors within the neighbor sector group in . If the supporting sector value still does not equal the number of sectors within the individual neighbor sector group the process advances again to . Otherwise the process advances to where the RAN determines whether any remaining target sectors within the target sector group are present that have not yet had their individual neighbor sector groups modified to comply with the supporting sector value. If one or more target sectors remain the process returns to for the next target sector. Otherwise the process advances to of .

Returning to it will be appreciated that each of steps and i.e. the process of can be performed in advance such that the RAN maintains the individual neighbor sector groups and or the modified individual neighbor sector groups e.g. subsequent to the process of locally at one or more registers. Thus steps through need not actually be performed each time a supporting sector group is populated. Rather the RAN can simply access the registers corresponding to the modified individual neighbor sector groups for each target sector obtained or determined in . Thus in either case after obtaining the individual modified neighbor sector groups for each target sector the process advances to .

In the RAN merges the individual neighbor sector groups for each of the target sectors within the target sector group into a merged group. In the RAN removes from the merged group any sectors that overlap with target sectors in the target sector group. Then in the RAN sets the supporting sector group equal to the resultant merged group i.e. post target sector removal .

Accordingly an example application of the process of will now be provided. As described above with respect to assume that ATs A through G are present or expected to be present within target sectors T through T which collectively comprise the initial target sector group. Next assume that target sector T has neighbor sectors T and N target sector T has neighbor sectors T and N target sector T has neighbor sector N and target sector T has neighbor sectors T N and N.

With these assumptions the target sector group T T T T is obtained in the neighbor sector group T N T N N N N is obtained in and a supporting sector value of two 2 is selected in . Next the process of is executed for each of target sectors T through T. Because target sectors T and T have two neighbor sectors and the supporting sector value equals two the individual neighbor sector groups for T and T are not modified by the process of . Because target sector T has a single neighbor sector and the supporting sector value equals two the RAN adds the sector that is geographically closest e.g. N to target sector T to T s individual neighbor sector group in . Because target sector T has three neighbor sectors and the supporting sector value equals two the RAN removes the sector that is geographically furthest e.g. N from target sector T from T s individual neighbor sector group in . Alternatively as discussed above if the RAN performs steps and in advance the RAN merely accesses one or more registers maintained at the RAN to determine the individual neighbor sector groups for each of target sectors T through T.

The resultant individual neighbor sector groups are merged into a merged group T N T N N N N in and target sectors present within the merged group are purged from the merged group N N N N N in and the supporting sector group is set equal to the purged merged group in . illustrates an example of the resultant wireless communication system with non supporting sectors being unlabeled after the process of .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the representative examples of supporting sector group formations are non limiting and can be modified in any number of ways. For example the process of generates a supporting sector group based on a single tier of neighbor sectors i.e. neighbor sectors of target sectors whereas the process of generates a supporting sector group based on a double tier of neighbor sectors i.e. neighbor sectors of target sectors plus neighbor sectors of those neighbor sectors . It will be appreciated that any number of tiers can be implemented in other embodiments of the present invention. Further the process of generates a single tier of neighbor sectors and then performs a modification process to achieve a given number of supporting sectors relative to each target sector. However this process may alternative be based on a double tier of neighbor sectors and or any other numbered tier of neighbor sectors. Further the modification process can be performed in the absence of any tier. In this example each target sector can build its individual neighbor sector group from zero and simply add the geographically closest sectors until the number of added sectors equals the supporting sector value. In other words there are numerous variations of the above teachings that are intended to fall within the scope of the present invention.

Further it will be appreciated that while the processes described with respect to have been described as initialization processes for the supporting sector group the processes may alternatively be used to update an existing supporting sector group. Thus while the target sector behaviors and supporting sector behaviors described above are directed to examples where cluster updates are based on maintaining support groups that are adjacent to target sectors it will be appreciated that clusters may alternatively be updated in accordance with any of the processes described with respect to and need not be limited to an adjacent type implementation. Illustrative examples of adding removing sectors and updating the cluster in this manner have been omitted from this application only for the sake of brevity as it will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art how to apply the initialization procedures of the processes of in a manner so as to maintain update a cluster e.g. as described with respect to with regard to the adjacent and or proximity based supporting sector embodiment .

The above described embodiments of the present invention have been directed to cluster formation or initialization processes cluster updating processes e.g. modifying clusters to add or remove target sectors and or supporting sectors and processes relating to the behavior of target sectors and supporting sectors within a particular cluster.

As will be appreciated from the above description a cluster corresponds to a plurality of sectors supporting a given multicast session with the plurality of sectors including at least one target sector and at least one supporting sector. The cluster can be further defined as corresponding to a plurality of target and supporting sectors that are i contiguous and ii that support the given multicast session on the same interlace multiplex IM pair of the downlink BCH. As used herein the term contiguous means that each cluster member sector e.g. either a target or supporting sector is adjacent to at least one other cluster member sector e.g. one or more target or supporting sectors . Further IM pairs are included within the BOM as associated with an advertised BCMCS flow. The IM pair instructs ATs with regard to how to tune to the downlink BCH in order to monitor the associated advertised BCMCS flow. The manner of using different IM pairs to carry different BCMCS flows is well known in the art and is discussed in more detail within Publication No. 2007 0049314 i.e. incorporated by reference in the Background section .

The first cluster includes target sectors T and T and supporting sectors N through N. AT C is actually positioned or expected to be positioned within target sector T and ATs A and B are actually positioned or expected to be positioned within target sector T. As an example the first cluster has been configured so as to correspond to the embodiment wherein supporting sectors correspond to non target sectors adjacent to target sectors. The second cluster includes target sector T and supporting sectors N through N. ATs D and E are actually positioned or expected to be positioned within target sector T. As an example the second cluster has been configured so as to correspond to the embodiment wherein supporting sectors correspond to non target sectors adjacent to target sectors. However it will be appreciated that either of clusters or may be re configured as a single tier neighbor cluster e.g. see a double tier neighbor cluster e.g. see a single tier neighbor cluster modified by a supporting sector value e.g. see and or any combination thereof.

As new target sectors are added to or removed from a cluster the cluster can move or grow throughout a wireless communication system. Accordingly it will be appreciated that two or more clusters formed separately within a wireless communication system can overlap collide or merge through the addition of one or more target and or support clusters as different clusters approach each other.

In the simplest scenario each colliding or overlapping cluster is configured to support the given multicast session on the same IM pair. In this example the RAN need not take any special action during cluster collision. In other words the behaviors of the target sectors and supporting sectors within each cluster are the same before the cluster collision or merge as after the cluster collision or merge. Accordingly because no special action need be taken on the part of the RAN during this simplest scenario the RAN can in an embodiment of the present invention attempt to ensure that each cluster for a given multicast session within the wireless communication system supports the given multicast session on the same IM pair. Thus in this example during the cluster initialization process of which may be performed for each cluster an additional step may be positioned between and . In this additional step the RAN can i check whether one or more other clusters exist within the wireless communication system for the given multicast session and ii set the IM pair for the new cluster equal to the IM pair of the one or more other clusters from i if possible. Thus assuming the additional step is successful clusters supporting the given multicast session can be maintained on the same IM pair thereby reducing the complexity of a cluster collision.

However it may not always be possible to configure each cluster for a given multicast session within the wireless communication system for operation on the same IM pair e.g. because the IM pair in one or more sectors is already being used by another multicast program . Accordingly an embodiment of the present invention is directed to handling collisions of clusters that are operating on different IM pairs as will now be described in greater detail.

In cluster X includes target sectors X T and X T and supporting sectors X N through X N. AT C is actually positioned or expected to be positioned within target sector X T and ATs A and B are actually positioned or expected to be positioned within target sector X T. As an example and for the sake of simplicity cluster X has been configured so as to correspond to the embodiment wherein supporting sectors correspond to non target sectors adjacent to target sectors. Cluster Y includes target sector Y T and supporting sectors Y N through Y N. ATs D and E are actually positioned or expected to be positioned within target sector Y T. As an example and for the sake of simplicity cluster Y has been configured so as to correspond to the embodiment wherein supporting sectors correspond to non target sectors adjacent to target sectors. However it will be appreciated that either of clusters X or Y may be re configured as a single tier neighbor cluster e.g. see a double tier neighbor cluster e.g. see a single tier neighbor cluster modified by a supporting sector value e.g. see and or any combination thereof.

Within the wireless communication system of assume that cluster X supports the given multicast session with a first IM pair IM  and cluster Y supports the given multicast session with a second IM pair IM  . Further as shown in supporting sector X N of cluster X overlaps with or is the same sector as supporting sector Y N of cluster Y.

With the above assumptions illustrates the behavior of overlapping supporting sector X N Y N according to an embodiment of the present invention. The supporting sector behavior of is a modification of the supporting sector behavior discussed above with respect to . Further the process of is directed to an embodiment wherein supporting sectors are defined as non target sectors that are adjacent to target sectors as in . However it will be readily apparent how the process of can be modified to conform with any supporting sector configuration e.g. defining supporting sectors based on single or double tiered neighbor sectors based on a supporting sector value etc. .

Referring to in the RAN in the supporting sector X N Y N transmits a BOM advertising a given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 1 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 2 and including IM  and IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 PhysicalChannelCount 2 IM  IM  . The PhysicalChannelCount parameter indicates the number of IM pairs or physical channels upon which the given multicast session is being carried in supporting sector X N Y N. Next in the RAN in the supporting sector X N Y N determines whether any BCMCS flow registration messages for T FLOW have been received. If one or more BCMCS flow registration messages for T FLOW are determined to have been received the process advances to of or of discussed below in greater detail and the supporting sector X N Y N transitions to a target sector for either cluster X or cluster Y e.g. based on which cluster the AT sending the BCMCSFlowRegistration message belongs to . Otherwise the process advances to .

In of the RAN determines whether supporting sectors X N and Y N remain overlapping. For example if an adjacent target sector is dropped or removed from either cluster X or cluster Y the supporting sector may no longer be overlapping between clusters X and Y. If the supporting sector remains in an overlapping state the RAN for the supporting sector X N Y N waits the given BOM period in and then returns to .

Otherwise the process advances to . In the RAN determines whether any adjacent target sectors are present relative to the supporting sector for either cluster X or cluster Y. If no adjacent target sectors remain the process advances to and the supporting sector is transitioned to a non supporting sector. After transitioning to the non supporting sector the non supporting sector does not carry the BCMCS flow for T FLOW on the BCH and does not transmit BOMs for the BCMCS flow T FLOW. Otherwise if the RAN determines that at least one adjacent target sector for one of cluster X or cluster Y is present the process advances to of and executes the supporting sector process for single cluster i.e. non overlapping supporting sectors.

Next within the wireless communication system of assume AT D moves from target sector Y T into supporting sector X N Y N. Accordingly assuming that the RAN maintains AT D within cluster Y supporting sector Y N transitions to target sector Y T which still overlaps with supporting sector X N of cluster X. Likewise supporting sectors X N and X N become overlapping supporting sectors X N Y N and X N Y N respectively. Also target sector X T becomes a supporting sector Y N for cluster Y. The process for overlapping supporting sectors X N Y N and X N Y N is described above with respect to and will not be described further for the sake of brevity. Next two alternative embodiments relating to a process for a target sector overlapping with a supporting sector will be described with respect to respectively.

In for sector X T Y N the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 0 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 1 and including IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 PhysicalChannelCount 1 IM  . Accordingly the BOM transmitted in does not advertise the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X T Y N although the BCMCS flow on IM  is still carried within the sector. Likewise in the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 1 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 1 and including IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 PhysicalChannelCount 1 IM  . Accordingly similar to the BOM transmitted in does not advertise the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X T Y N although the BCMCS flow on IM  is still carried within the sector.

Likewise in for sector X N Y T the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 0 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 1 and including IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 PhysicalChannelCount 1 IM  . Accordingly the BOM transmitted in does not advertise the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X N Y T although the BCMCS flow on IM  is still carried within the sector. Likewise in the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 1 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 1 and including IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 PhysicalChannelCount 1 IM  . Accordingly similar to the BOM transmitted in does not advertise the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X T Y N although the BCMCS flow on IM  is still carried within the sector.

In this manner it will be appreciated that the BCMCS flow is carried on IM  within sector X T Y N. As such the BCMCS flow on IM  is available to support target sector Y T of cluster Y for example via combining or soft combining for AT D of cluster Y within target sector Y T. However the BCMCS flow in sector X T Y N is not advertised as being carried on IM  in the BOM and as such ATs A and B do not attempt to decode the given multicast session on IM . Thus ATs A and B do not overload themselves by attempting to decode the same packet twice i.e. on the different respective IM pairs which can reduce battery consumption by eliminating redundant decoding efforts and or duplicative packet handling procedures. In the same manner ATs A and B in sector X T Y N are aided by the BCMCS flow on IM  carried in sector X N Y T and AT D is not overloaded by attempting to decode signals on IM  in sector X N Y T because IM  for BCMCS flow T FLOW is not advertised in the BOM in that sector.

In for sector X T Y N the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 0 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 2 and including both IM  and IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 PhysicalChannelCount 2 IM  IM  . Accordingly the BOM transmitted in advertises the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X T Y N and the BCMCS flow on IM  and IM  is still carried within the sector. Likewise in the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 1 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 2 and including both IM  and IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 PhysicalChannelCount 1 IM  IM  . Accordingly similar to the BOM transmitted in advertises the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X T Y N and the BCMCS flow on IM  and IM  is still carried within the sector.

Likewise in for sector X N Y T the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 0 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 2 and including both IM  and IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 0 PhysicalChannelCount 2 IM  IM  . Accordingly the BOM transmitted in advertises the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X N Y T and the BCMCS flow on IM  and IM  is still carried within the sector. Likewise in the RAN transmits a BOM advertising the given BCMCS flow T FLOW and setting RFDB to 1 and further having a PhysicalChannelCount equal to 2 and including both IM  and IM  denoted as BOM BCMCS T FLOW RFDB 1 PhysicalChannelCount 1 IM  IM  . Accordingly similar to the BOM transmitted in advertises the BCMCS flow carried on IM  in sector X N Y T and the BCMCS flow on IM  and IM  is still carried within the sector.

Accordingly in contrast to the embodiment of BOMs sent in target sectors that have overlapping supporting sectors can advertise multicast sessions as being supported by both i the IM pair associated with the cluster of the target sector and ii the IM pair associated with the cluster of the supporting sector. In response to a BOM with dual IM pairs being advertised ATs will attempt to decode the multicast session at both IM pairs. As noted above this can result in duplicative decoding efforts and processing at the AT. However it is also possible at least in some circumstances that the decode rate can be beneficially aided by the dual transmission decoding due to for example a diversity effect. For example if signal quality of one IM pair at a given AT is poor whereas signal quality of the other IM pair is good the dual decoding at different IM pairs can result in successfully decoded packets. A determination as to whether to enable the single IM pair implementation of or the dual IM pair implementation of can be made by a system designer based on any of a number of criteria.

Further above described embodiments of the present invention are directed to supporting two clusters operating on different IM pairs during a cluster collision or overlap. However in an alternative embodiment the RAN can attempt to pick one of the IM pairs of the clusters and transfer or switch the other cluster onto the same IM pair. In this manner the two clusters can be merged and the above described processes need not be implemented. In a further example if the different clusters are not capable of being assigned to the same IM pair that one of the clusters is already using the RAN can attempt to find an un used or un assigned IM pair that each cluster may use. Thus in this scenario each cluster can switch to the two un conflicted cluster or IM pair. Accordingly the RAN can select between i whether to merge colliding clusters onto the same IM pair and ii whether to implement protocols to handle two clusters operating on different IM pairs during a collision as discussed above with respect to . Again as discussed above the occurrence of cluster collisions can be reduced if the RAN initializes clusters to the same IM pair although this is not always possible.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

