---

title: System and method for formatting data for a mobile communication device and transmitting the data to the mobile communication device
abstract: A system and method for flexible data provision to mobile communication devices, which enables the user to selectively download data to the mobile communication device from a remote computer. The selective data download may optionally apply to one or more of a single item of data, to multiple items of data, one or more categories of data and the like. Preferably, the user interface provided through the remote computer comprises a mark-up language document, such as a Web page for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08031694&OS=08031694&RS=08031694
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 08031694
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080208
---
The present invention is of a system and method for flexible data retrieval for mobile communication devices and in particular to such a system and method in which such data retrieval is performed through a server or computer.

Digitally enabled telephones and other connected devices including cellular telephones so called smart phones Java enabled phones and VoIP telephones telephones which communicate through the Voice over IP protocol also known as Internet telephones are all able to communicate with a server. Unlike simple analog telephones this ability to communicate with a server increases the variety and type of services which may be offered through such telephones. For example one type of service which may be offered is the ability to synchronize data with a server.

In order to support such synchronization various protocols and standards are known including the Open Mobile Alliance Data Synchronization OMA DS protocol. This standard which is also known as SyncML its former name defines a protocol for a platform independent information synchronization. SyncML is most commonly thought of as a method to synchronize contact and calendar information PIM between some type of handheld device and a computer personal or network based service such as between a mobile phone and a personal computer or a server.

However such synchronization is typically pre set and predetermined according to one or more functions available on the server or personal computer. It does not permit any type of flexible functionality for example it does not permit the user to seek new types of information and to add this new information to the digitally enabled telephone quickly and easily.

Furthermore existing solutions offer protocols and software for downloading data and or other content to a mobile communication device. Data retrieval is different as is downloading content to mobile communication devices. The latter requires special advance pre processing and production to be ready to download and currently cannot be done on the fly or spontaneously .

There is thus an unmet need for and it would be highly useful to have a system and method for flexible data provision to mobile communication devices which enables the user to selectively download data to the mobile communication device from a remote computer. There is also an unmet need for and it would be highly useful to have such a system and method in which data is selected for downloading through a mark up language document such as for example a Web page.

The present invention overcomes these drawbacks of the background art by providing a method and a system for flexible data provision to mobile communication devices which enables the user to selectively download data to the mobile communication device from a remote computer. The selective data download may optionally apply to one or more of a single item of data to multiple items of data one or more categories of data and the like. Preferably the user interface provided through the remote computer comprises a mark up language document such as a Web page for example.

By mobile communication device it is meant any portable device such as a cellular telephone PDA or other computer having voice communication capabilities or any digital device featuring a data processor and voice communication capabilities through any type of communication network whether a voice communication network a data communication network or a computer network according to any protocol whether a voice communication protocol a data communication protocol or any other suitable protocol.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. The materials methods and examples provided herein are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

Implementation of the method and system of the present invention involves performing or completing certain selected tasks or steps manually automatically or a combination thereof. Moreover according to actual instrumentation and equipment of preferred embodiments of the method and system of the present invention several selected steps could be implemented by hardware or by software on any operating system of any firmware or a combination thereof. For example as hardware selected steps of the invention could be implemented as a chip or a circuit. As software selected steps of the invention could be implemented as a plurality of software instructions being executed by a computer using any suitable operating system. In any case selected steps of the method and system of the invention could be described as being performed by a data processor such as a computing platform for executing a plurality of instructions.

Although the present invention is described with regard to a mobile communication device on a network featuring a server and preferably for cellular communication it should be noted that optionally any device featuring a data processor and or the ability to execute one or more instructions with the ability to support at least voice communication may be described as a mobile communication device including but not limited to any type of telephone enabled computer a cellular telephone an IP telephone software virtual device or real hardware device a smart phone a PDA personal digital assistant or a pager. Any two or more of such devices in communication with each other and or any computer in communication with a mobile communication device may optionally comprise a network which may for example optionally be a computer network and or a cellular network.

A server as termed herein may optionally comprise any computer that is connected to a fixed line IP network. It should be noted that optionally any device featuring a data processor and or the ability to execute one or more instructions may be described as a computer including but not limited to a PC personal computer a server a minicomputer. Any two or more of such devices in communication with each other and or any computer in communication with any other computer may optionally comprise a computer network .

The present invention is of a system and method for flexible data provision to mobile communication devices which enables the user to selectively download data to the mobile communication device from a remote computer. The selective data download may optionally apply to one or more of a single item of data to multiple items of data one or more categories of data and the like. Preferably the user interface provided through the remote computer comprises a mark up language document such as a Web page for example.

Preferably the user is able to download any type of data including but not limited to events contacts notes meetings pictures text from a standard Web page provided by the remote computer to the mobile communication device of the user. The data is optionally and preferably retrieved with either a local plug in integrated with a standard Web browser or through one or more special links that are added to dynamically generated Web pages. By plug in it is meant any software software component code instructions firmware and the like which is capable of communicating with and optionally integrating into a Web browser. A plug in may optionally be determined according to any compatible technology including but not limited to ActiveX for Microsoft Internet Explorer or NPAPI for Mozilla based browsers such as FireFox for example. A server component adapts the data into one or more suitable data formats which can be rendered by a mobile communication device.

Optionally and preferably for the embodiment with a Web browser plug in preferably the plug in analyzes Web pages or other mark up language documents more preferably in real time or on the fly and extracts information and or content including but not limited to one or more of contacts pictures notes events from the displayed data. The extracted information is then preferably transferred to the server component.

The server side component then preferably converts the information into a suitable mobile data structure including but not limited to vCard vCalendar vNote XML eXtensible Markup Language Nokia Smart Messaging EMS Enhanced Message Service MMS Multimedia Messaging Service WAP Push in which a link is sent to the mobile communication device after which data pull down is performed from the linked resource or a combination thereof for example vCard vCalendar vNote by MMS or WAP Push or through a non data format method such as sending a vCard by SMS or any other data format which can be stored and rendered in the mobile communication device. Nokia Smart Messaging is a protocol for providing content and configuration to a mobile communication device over the signaling channel of a mobile network. The message includes one or more functions but is sent as a text message with special prefixes and codes which enable the mobile communication device to recognize it as being functional rather than text based.

The server component then preferably either pushes the data to the mobile communication device or sends a trigger to the device to retrieve the information from the server. Optionally the mobile communication device may pull the data from the server without such a trigger being sent in the next scheduled synchronization .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the remote computer may optionally be in communication with a computer of the user and or with the mobile communication device of the user directly. The remote computer may optionally be in communication with a computer of the user and or with the mobile communication device through any type of network including but not limited to the Internet or local corporate portals Intranets . Optionally the mobile communication device may provide a web WAP browser for displaying mark up language documents.

According to optional embodiments of the present invention the system comprises a mobile data management component including but not limited to a Mobile Data Synchronization server to employ synchronization protocols in order to provide the data to the mobile communication device. The focus of communication between the mobile communication device and the synchronization server is preferably to enable the latter server to provide information in a suitable format to the mobile communication device.

Optionally a Messaging Server may be used to deliver the information for example through sending a text or multimedia message that contains the data.

According to other optional embodiments of the present invention the system comprises an advertisement component to add relevant advertisements to the data which is downloaded to the mobile communication device.

According to still other optional embodiments of the present invention the system comprises an indexing component which extracts manages and updates mobile information separately as described in further details below. Briefly the indexing component preferably indexes and scans Web sites or other types of mark up language documents in an offline manner extracting data which includes but is not limited to contacts pictures notes and events and formats. The extracted data is then preferably transcoded converted or otherwise adapted to one or more formats supported by mobile communication devices.

According to still other optional embodiments of the present invention the system comprises a Data Management server which manages the subscriber s mobile data.

Without wishing to be limited in any way the present invention may optionally be used for a number of applications that enable users to more easily and flexibly download data from a remote computer to a mobile communication device. For example with regard to the Internet as a non limiting illustrative example only users may wish to effectively transfer information from a Web page to their mobile devices so that it will be instantly available anywhere. A few non limiting illustrative examples of the utility of such transfer are as follows. A user looks for a restaurant through a database or on a remote computer or through a computer network and upon locating the restaurant wishes to push the address phone number and name of the restaurant to the mobile communication device such as a cellular telephone for example.

As another example a user looks for a company and contact information on the Internet and upon locating the desired information wishes to update the mobile communication device such as a cellular telephone for example with the telephone number and name that was found.

As yet another example a user is browsing the Internet and wants to send a Web page link with notes to the mobile communication device such as a cellular telephone for example for future reference.

As still another example a user is searching for a picture on the Internet and wants to send the located image to the mobile communication device such as a cellular telephone for example.

Of course many other different examples could optionally be provided the above are intended to be illustrative only of at least some capabilities of the present invention without any limitation intended or implied.

The principles and operation of the present invention may be better understood with reference to the drawings and the accompanying description.

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic block diagram of an exemplary system according to the present invention. Any symbols or images used therein are not intended to be limiting in any way. As shown a system preferably features a plurality of user computers and a plurality of mobile communication devices controlled by a plurality of users . For the sake of illustration only and without any intention of being limiting in any way two user computers two mobile communication devices and two users are shown labeled A and B for clarity.

Each user computer preferably operates a web browser and or other type of mark up language document interface. User computer preferably communicates with a remote computer through a computer network as shown for the purpose of illustration only and without any intention of being limiting computer network is described with regard to the Internet. Also a plurality of remote computers are shown again for the purpose of illustration only and without any intention of being limiting.

Again for the sake of illustration and without intending to be limiting in any way user computer A preferably features a browser plug in which is software or code associated with web browser A. Browser plug in preferably communicates through computer network with a synchronization server . Synchronization server also preferably communicates with mobile communication devices A and B as shown for providing data to mobile communication devices . As described in greater detail below such data provision may optionally be made through push or pull mechanisms.

With regard to the general operation of synchronization server with mobile communication devices preferably synchronization server receives one or more commands and or instructions with one or more associated data items. Synchronization server then preferably parses and or formats and or interprets and or converts the one or more data items into a format and or data structure which is suitable for the recipient mobile communication device s . More preferably synchronization server parses the one or more data items for example dividing the data into a plurality of relevant portions which are then converted to an appropriate format. For example for a meeting at a particular location on a particular date such portions may optionally include but are not limited to vCard for receiving contact information MMS for providing map and driving directions vNote for user comments and vCalendar for date and time information. For other types of media such as for example audio data video data and the like optionally and preferably synchronization server performs transcoding based on the capabilities of the mobile communication device. Optionally synchronization server first examines the data format and then if necessary performs any format changes.

For some types of information particularly if the information is received from browser plug in the user is preferably requested to indicate a category into which the information is to be placed more preferably with the assistance of a wizard or other assistive software interface not shown . For example if contact information is provided the user preferably indicates that this information is to be provided to mobile communication device as contact information. Otherwise optionally browser plug in could perform an automatic analysis of the information to determine whether it may be categorized. For example if the information includes a number browser plug in could optionally consider whether it is a telephone number. In any case browser plug in preferably causes whether automatically or manually the information to be divided to one or more fields also optionally and preferably user is asked whether such a division is suitable before downloading the information.

Synchronization server then provides the one or more data items to the appropriate mobile communication device s . The information may optionally be sent according to any suitable data synchronization protocol including but not limited to the standard SyncML protocol or the proprietary mSync protocol. The latter is described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 006 352 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CLIENT SYNCHRONIZATION FOR A COMMUNICATION DEVICE by the present inventors filed on Jan. 8 2008 hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. However the exact synchronization protocol is not important as any suitable protocol may be used. The information may optionally be sent indirectly through another server including but not limited to a messaging server as shown. Messaging server may optionally communicate with mobile communication device according to any messaging protocol including but not limited to EMS MMS SMS or WAP Push as previously described.

Synchronization server may optionally operate according to the Open Mobile Alliance Data Synchronization OMA DS protocol. This standard which is also known as SyncML its former name defines a protocol for a platform independent information synchronization. SyncML is most commonly thought of as a method to synchronize contact and calendar information PIM between some type of handheld device and a computer personal or network based service such as between a mobile phone and a computer or a server. However for this embodiment of the present invention the standard may optionally be used as a communication protocol for communicating one or more preferably parsed data items to mobile communication device .

Synchronization server may optionally receive information regarding one or more functional parameters of mobile communication device preferably regarding functional capabilities of mobile communication device . Such functional parameters may optionally be received and assessed according to the model of mobile communication device . The determination of the model also provides an indication of the software capabilities of mobile communication device for example the content types and media formats that are supported by mobile communication device such as JPEG and GIF for images 3GP for video etc. Optionally mobile communication device may only be able to display text or alternatively may also be able to display one or more of images audio data and or video data. Also optionally mobile communication device may feature or lack a calendar notes function and the like. Other options include determining whether MMS or other advanced messaging types may be received by mobile communication device .

Synchronization server may optionally receive the information in the form of a string such as the User Agent string as is well known for any HTTP based protocol in the art in order to identify the type of device for or exemplified by mobile communication device . Once the type of device has been identified it can be mapped to a device profile which includes all the relevant capabilities such as supported content types protocols screen size and so forth.

Alternatively UAProf User Agent Profile is a standard method well known in the art for retrieving device capabilities for wireless devices. UAProf files are based upon XML they describe the capabilities of a wireless device including vendor model multimedia capabilities if any the size of the screen character set s that are supported and in some cases also provide advanced information regarding the ability to handle video data and so forth. The vendor of the wireless device and or the mobile service provider may optionally provide such files which can then optionally be used by synchronization server to determine a device profile for mobile communication device . This approach may also optionally be combined with the above approach in order to determine a device profile.

The information received by synchronization server is preferably used by synchronization server to adjust the format of the data sent to mobile communication device such that synchronization server optionally and more preferably adjusts the format of the data on the fly according to the requirements of mobile communication device . Most preferably mobile communication device and synchronization server perform a handshake or other bi directional communication in order for synchronization server to receive the necessary parameters from mobile communication device at the time of the data request for downloading alternatively or additionally synchronization server may receive such information in advance or not in real time for example from mobile communication device associated with a particular subscriber and or carrier providing this service.

Synchronization server may optionally be combined with messaging server . Communication with any of synchronization server and or messaging server and mobile communication device is preferably performed through a wireless network with a service provider and or operator of a mobile network not shown . Messaging server may optionally be implemented as and or comprise a SMSC short message service center MMSC Multimedia Messaging Service Center PPG Push Proxy Gateway for WAP wireless application protocol Push EMSC email service center or any other gateway with a combination of messaging types. Wireless network may optionally be implemented as any wireless or cellular network including but not limited to WiFi WiMAX and or a cellular telephone network. The structural components of such a network are not shown as they are easily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

As a non limiting illustrative example suppose that user A searches through computer network in this example the Internet using remote computer in this example a Search Engine for a restaurant. The results are displayed using Web Browser A which has browser plug in A installed. When the results are displayed user A chooses a restaurant. Browser plug in A preferably examines the web site and HTML code and or other underlying mark up language code such as XML for example and extracts the contact information name telephone numbers etc from the HTML code. User A is given a choice to add the information to mobile communication device . When User A requests adding the data to mobile communication device A browser plug in A preferably structures the data optionally and more preferably with data format detection and any necessary reformatting and sends it to synchronization server . Synchronization server then preferably parses the data into relevant portions as previously described. These data structures are sent to the mobile communication device A using mobile data protocols such as MMS SyncML and updated in various locations within mobile communication device A depending on the data format and protocol the data can be stored in the inbox address book calendar file system internal device memory or external memory such as a memory card for example and the like.

User A may also optionally and preferably set expiration or validity time to the data entered in order not to keep unnecessary data in mobile communication device A. Upon expiration of the data the data is deleted from mobile communication device A.

If mobile communication device A has a specific synchronization client installed the data may be sent from synchronization server to mobile communication device A using a synchronization protocol as described above. Otherwise synchronization server may optionally send the information as previously described.

Turning now to user computer B as shown Web browser B does not feature browser plug in as previously described. Instead user computer B communicates with a remote computer shown as a plurality of web servers A and B. Remote computer provides mark up language data to Web browser B of user computer B for example to display a Web page. However rather than extracting the data of interest through browser plug in instead web server preferably communicates directly with synchronization server by notifying synchronization server of the information to be communicated. Web server preferably provides a hyperlink for example through highlighted text or a GUI gadget or other indicator optionally and more preferably involving embedded mark up language code such as embedded HTML Javascript JAVA and or ActiveX code which a user such as user B can click on or otherwise select with a mouse or other pointing device. Upon such a selection web server communicates the relevant data to synchronization server for example optionally through an API application programming interface that is exposed or provided by synchronization server . The data parsing and further transmission processes preferably occur as previously described.

Each of web servers A and B may optionally extract information to be provided to mobile communication devices . The extracted data for example from web pages or other types of mark up language documents preferably includes but is not limited to contacts pictures notes audio data video data image data textual data events and formats. The extracted data is then preferably transcoded converted or otherwise adapted to one or more formats supported by mobile communication devices for example as previously described and is preferably then sent to synchronization server more preferably for assisting with the above described process in which web server communicates the relevant data to synchronization server . Alternatively the extracted data is optionally not transcoded converted or otherwise adapted to one or more formats supported by mobile communication devices by web server but is instead transcoded converted or otherwise adapted to one or more of such formats by synchronization server . If an MMSC is used for example at messaging server then optionally transcoding of the extracted data may be performed by the MMSC.

As shown with regard to web browser optionally and preferably communicates with search engine and or with web site server preferably serves mark up language documents such as web pages for example. As such documents are updated optionally and preferably web site server communicates automatically and directly with synchronization server as previously described.

When user A browses Web Site A through communication between web browser and web site server and requests that information be sent to mobile communication device web site server preferably notifies synchronization server of the request. In turn synchronization server preferably determines whether relevant information exists for the specific site. If no information exists and or the information is not updated as of a predetermined date for example past day past week past month or any other time period synchronization server extracts the requested information from the web page or other mark up language document and or receives the information from web site server . Synchronization server preferably adapts the information to be received by mobile communication device as previously described.

Optionally this implementation of a system according to the present invention may be integrated with the Advertisement Server of to add promotions and advertisements to the information sent to mobile communication device not shown .

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments it will be appreciated that many variations modifications and other applications of the invention may be made.

