---

title: Methods of announcing a call and transmitting application data to an access terminal in a wireless communications system
abstract: Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for announcing a call to an access terminal in a wireless communications system. Receiving, at an access network, a request to call a given access terminal and determining whether a cluster to which the given access terminal belongs is known at the access network by querying a location database. The location database includes a list of access terminals and clusters, which themselves include sectors of the wireless communications system. Thereafter, transmitting an announce message announcing the requested call to the given access terminal based on the determination of whether the cluster is known to the access network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08077650&OS=08077650&RS=08077650
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08077650
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080930
---
The invention relates to communications in a wireless communications system and more particularly to methods of announcing a call to an access terminal in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5 G and 2.75 G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for announcing a call to an access terminal in a wireless communications system. Receiving at an access network a request to call a given access terminal and determining whether a cluster to which the given access terminal belongs is known at the access network by querying a location database. The location database includes a list of access terminals and clusters which themselves include sectors of the wireless communications system. Thereafter transmitting an announce message announcing the requested call to the given access terminal based on the determination of whether the cluster is known to the access network.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Conventionally in order to announce a call to a particular access terminal the RAN broadcasts a page on a downlink paging channel in each sector of a paging zone e.g. the subnet of one or more BSCs or RNCs upon arrival of a call e.g. from the PDSN the BSN etc. for a target access terminal e.g. for unicast communications or terminals e.g. for a multicast communication . Upon receiving the broadcasted page on the downlink paging channel the target access terminal sets up a traffic channel for the call. After establishing the traffic channel the RAN can transmit within the sector that includes the target access terminal the Announce message over the established traffic channel on the forward link F TCH over the air interface to the target access terminal.

Alternatively the RAN can broadcast the Announce message in each sector of the paging zone without first paging the access terminal to determine its sector location. In this case the RAN transmits the Announce message as a data over signaling DOS message over the downlink Control Channel in each sector of the paging zone. The broadcasted Announce message approach is referred to as Direct DOS.

Table 1 below illustrates an example of delays from the time of transmission of the Announce message by the RAN to the time of arrival of the Announce message at the target access terminal for each of the above described approaches i.e. Standard paging vs. Direct DOS . In Table 1 the 50 90and 95percentiles correspond to the percentage of ATs that have received a page for a call e.g. a multicast call a unicast call etc. assuming that the AT is in the network and that the page and the MT DOS message are scheduled on the initial CC medium access control MAC packet on the nearest synchronous or sub synchronous CC capsule. As shown in Table 1 below the Direct DOS approach can lead to significant reductions in delay. However transmitting the Announce message via Direct DOS unconditionally in all sectors of a paging zone can degrade forward link capacity by increasing the load on the downlink Control Channel. For example the overloading on the control channel can occur in unconditional i.e. universal or global Direct DOS because an Announce message can be relatively large e.g. 60 bytes in length and the downlink Control Channel has a limited amount of capacity available for transmissions at each paging cycle. Accordingly the delay reductions associated with Direct DOS are offset by the load increase on the downlink Control Channel.

The arrival rate distribution of the Announce message in a paging zone at each paging cycle will now be described as determined based on an example call model. Then a method of determining the payload available in the downlink Control Channel packets in order to transport one or more Announce messages will be described.

An example call model which is used to explain embodiments of the present invention presented below will now be described. It is understood that the call model described below is merely on example that may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention and that the invention is not intended to be limited to this particular call model. Accordingly assume that the example call model is characterized by an average call rate per user in a busy hour is 1.45 calls per user per hour. Assuming that the target s of a call are equally likely to be in any sector in the service provider s network the average number of calls arriving in a sector is the same as the average number of calls emanating from within a sector. For the sake of numerical analysis assume the number of cells in a paging zone be 50. Assuming each cell has three sectors there are 150 sectors in a paging zone. Assuming that each sector carrier in a paging zone has 333 registered users the total number of registered users in a paging zone is 333 3 50 50 000 users paging zone carrier. The average rate of call arrival into a paging zone denoted by is 3 50 333 1.45 calls paging zone hour. The average call arrival rate in a paging zone per paging cycle duration of 426 msec is given by Equation 1 3 50 333 1.45 3600 0.426 8.57 calls paging zone paging cycle. Equation 1

Assuming that the call arrival process follows a Poisson distribution with intensity the probability of K calls arriving into a paging zone with intensity is plotted in . illustrates a probability distribution of one or more calls arriving in a paging zone in a 426 msec window under the assumptions expressed above. In particular illustrates a probability density function PDF curve and a cumulative density function CDF as is known in the art.

Referring to the PDF curve indicates that the arrival rate of three or more calls is relatively high i.e. 96 . Each arriving call denotes the arrival of an Announce message at the RAN and the CDF PDF curves correspond to the CDF PDF of Announce messages arriving at a paging zone in a given paging cycle. In an example for multicast group calls e.g. push to talk PTT group calls such as QChat multiple Announce messages are transmitted. However for the sake of simplicity the examples provided below are directed to direct or unicast calls.

Referring to the high arrival rate of Announce messages into a paging zone and the large size of an Announce message indicates that an unconditional Direct DOS approach over an entire paging zone is relatively impractical. As will be appreciated the available capacity of the downlink Control Channel in each sector affects whether the direct DOS approach is feasible on a per sector basis. The downlink Control Channel capacity will now be described in greater detail

In an example in a 1xEVDO Rev. A network the downlink Control Channel can operate at either 38.4 Kbps or 76.8 Kbps and can transmit one or more MAC packets having a size of 1024 bits. The MAC and physical layer overhead in transmitting a single MAC packet called an SCC capsule is enumerated in Table 2 below . Referring to Table 2 only 928 bits of a 1024 bit physical layer control channel CC packet is available for transmission of data. A number of overhead messages are transmitted over the Control Channel in this SCC capsule. These overhead messages and their periodicity are listed in table 3 below . Generally the frequency of transmission of these overhead messages is a variable that can be adjusted. However for convenience of explanation the examples provided below will treat the overhead message transmission frequency as being constant. The delay in delivering the multiple MT DOS ANNOUNCE messages over the synchronous CC and the associated delays are provided in table 4 below .

Accordingly Table 4 above illustrates payload requirements and OTA Delay in transmitting multiple DOS messages in a SCC capsule with an available payload of 102 bytes in the first SCC packet and Table 5 above illustrates payload requirements and OTA Delay in transmitting multiple DOS messages in a SCC capsule with an available payload of 50 bytes in the first SCC packet.

Below an unconditional Direct DOS or mobile terminated MT DOS approach for transmitting Announce messages is described followed by a cluster based approach according to an embodiment of the present invention.

As discussed above the large size of the Announce message makes an unconditional Direct DOS approach for an entire paging zone an expensive solution in terms of bandwidth on the downlink Control Channel. A simple approach to flooding the Announce message across an entire paging zone is to simply broadcast as many DOS messages as possible while still leaving room for Page messages. In the worst case scenario with the assumptions from the previous section 2 SCC MAC packets have a total capacity of 102 50 152 bytes. Assume that the number of call arrivals e.g. Announce message arrivals per paging zone per paging cycle is modeled as a Poisson distributed random variable with a PDF defined as in . Further assume that Kdenotes the maximum number of pages transmitted when exactly two Announce messages are broadcast across a paging zone. Similarly let Kdenote the maximum number of pages transmitted when exactly one Announce message is broadcast per paging zone per paging cycle. It is also possible that when a large number of calls K 1 arrive at the paging zone then no Announce message is broadcasted in that paging cycle. Each page message has 9 bytes i.e. one byte of payload and 8 bytes of headers such as MAC SLP SNP layer headers . Therefore Kis 102 50 128 9 2 pages and K 102 50 64 9 9 pages. With these assumptions the fraction percentage of calls e.g. QChat calls that can benefit from Direct DOS delivery is given by Equation 2 as follows 

The fraction expressed by Equation 2 is based particularly on two assumptions namely that i all incoming Announce messages in a 426 msec period are buffered at the RAN i.e. at one or more BSCs and that the RAN floods up to two Announce messages exactly once at the end of the 426 msec period . Further the 426 msec period defined at the RAN is not necessarily perfectly aligned with the 426 msec Control Channel Cycle at each of its constituent BTSs but may be offset by a fixed amount.

From the perspective of reducing a delay in established a call e.g. for a PTT session a large fraction of calls e.g. for QChat calls approximately 50 tend to exploit the Direct DOS flooding approach despite its drawbacks as discussed above. For example QChat calls can utilize a Divide and Conquer approach that takes advantage of the commonly expected behavior of QChat Direct calls namely that the targets of concurrently incident QChat Direct calls at a paging zone are uniformly spread across sectors in the paging zone. If the RAN is aware of the location of the target access terminal with any degree of reliability then it becomes more efficient to flood the Announce message to a limited number of sectors in which the target is most likely to be present e.g. in proximity of the target access terminal s last known location or current expected location . The RAN may also flood a higher number of Announce messages at any given time concurrently to different groups of spatially close sectors or clusters . As a result a higher fraction of QChat calls can benefit from a cluster based Direct DOS approach as opposed to a global Direct DOS approach that floods all sectors.

The following numerical example explains potential benefits of using cluster based Direct DOS approach for transmitting Announce messages. In the example to be provided next assume that i there are 150 sectors in a paging zone ii a target access terminal for a call is equally likely to be in any sector in a paging zone iii the call arrival rate is 15 calls per paging zone per paging cycle i.e. 99percentile value from CDF in and iv the paging zone is divided into groups of sectors clusters and each cluster contains exactly 7 contiguous sectors. With these assumptions the probability of a call arriving into any given cluster is 7 150. The probability distribution of the number of calls destined for a given cluster is illustrated in . Further an example of a cluster including 7 contiguous sectors is illustrated in .

In the above example given with respect to the size of a cluster e.g. see was assumed to be relatively small i.e. 7 sectors . The effect of increasing cluster size on the 50 95percentile rate of arrival of Announce messages into a cluster is illustrated in Table 6 below . Referring to Table 6 it will be appreciated that as the size of a cluster increases the number of calls destined to the cluster per paging cycle increases as well. Thus a smaller fraction of calls will benefit from a cluster based Direct DOS delivery approach as the cluster size approaches the entire paging zone.

Therefore as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the cluster size can be reduced if the RAN can keep track of access terminal locations so as to determine a sufficient location estimate of the target access terminal. Thus the RAN can maintain a database indicating the locations of one or more access terminals. For example the RAN can update the location of a given access terminal in the database whenever the access terminal crosses a cluster boundary. As an example in a 1xEVDO Rev. A network each registered access terminal that is in an idle mode can be configured to transmit a RouteUpdate message RUP each time the access terminal crosses a cluster boundary. For a cluster configuration as shown in this can be achieved by setting a normalized value of the RouteUpdateRadius e.g. where the RouteUpdateRadius is the geodesic distance between two sectors on a planar surface to be equal to the radius of the cluster ClusterRadius . For the cluster in the ClusterRadius is equal to the radius of the cell.

Because the size of a paging zone is small relative to the curvature of planet Earth a paging zone can be assumed to be substantially flat i.e. planar . Therefore the RouteUpdateRadius between sectors in a paging zone can be assumed to be the Euclidean distance between sectors. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art smaller cluster sizes will cause more frequent transmissions of RUP messages particularly by handsets that are in motion. This will necessarily increase the load on the Access Channel. The impact of cluster size on the frequency of distance triggered RUP message transmissions is discussed in more detail below. Further the RUP message reporting protocols and location database maintained at the RAN is discussed in greater detail below with respect to .

Generally as will be discussed in greater detail below with respect to the locations of ATs that are configured to receive DOS announce messages can be tracked in a finer manner as compared to non DOS announce capable ATs. By keeping closer track of DOS announce capable ATs the confidence level associated with the last known or reported location of the AT increases which decreases the size of the cluster and thereby reduces the number of sectors that send DOS announce messages. For example the RouteUpdate message transmission feature in 1xEV DO can be used. Regarding the transmission of RouteUpdate messages from ATs the RAN configures a given radius for one or more ATs and the ATs will then transmit a RouteUpdate to the RAN after traversing a distance that exceeds the RAN configured threshold or radius for the AT. The RouteUpdateRadiusAdd and RouteUpdateRadiusMultiply can be configured for the AT by the RAN in order to track the AT s in a finer manner selectively.

Accordingly for a paging zone of 150 sectors and 333 registered users per paging zone and the call model defined above approximately 13 of calls e.g. QChat Direct calls may benefit from a universal or global Direct DOS flooding protocol that limits the maximum number of Announce messages flooded every paging cycle to two.

For a cluster based Direct DOS flooding protocol assuming a cluster size of 7 sectors e.g. shown in nearly 96 of calls e.g. PTT or QChat calls can exploit the more localized Direct DOS approach without significantly impacting to network capacity e.g. even during a busy hour . For a larger cluster configuration of 7 cells i.e. 21 sectors as shown in 50 of calls e.g. PTT or QChat calls may benefit from the cluster based Direct DOS approach. Further the fraction of calls e.g. PTT or QChat calls that benefit from a cluster based Direct DOS flooding approach decreases as the handset population per sector per carrier increases.

As discussed above a paging zone of size 150 sectors with 333 registered idle users per sector and a call arrival rate specified by the example call model defined above i.e. 1.45 calls user hour a cluster size of 7 contiguous sectors achieved a condition where the number of calls destined to a cluster every paging cycle was at most two 95 of the time. Below the impact of cluster size on the intensity of distance triggered RUP message transmission will be discussed to explain a cluster size s effect on the load on the Access Channel.

In particular three symmetric cluster configurations will be discussed below respectively comprising 7 19 and 37 cells with each cell further comprised of 3 sectors. The layout of these cluster configurations is illustrated in and respectively. Denoting the distance between the two nearest cell sites by R in meters the cluster radius for the 7 cell 19 cell and 37 cell cluster configurations are R R and R respectively. For these layouts for convenience of explanation assume that R 8000 meters. Therefore the cluster radii for each of the configurations of and are 8 km 16 km and 24 km respectively. For each cluster configuration setting the RouteUpdateRadius equal to the radius of the cluster will trigger a RUP message transmission whenever a handset which last transmitted a RUP message in a cell of a given cluster exits the given cluster.

An example of a trajectory or path of a handset over a one hour period is illustrated in . Assuming that the handset transmitted a RUP message at time t 0 at the point of origination a second RUP message transmitted when the handset arrives in a central or internet cell i.e. sector and a third RUP message is transmitted when the handset exits the cluster confirmation i.e. sector . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the rate at which RUP messages is transmitted depends on i the underlying mobility model e.g. the speed at which the mobile station is moving among the cells as well as the radius of the cluster.

In another example assume that the inter cell distance is 2000 meters i.e. R 2000 m . In other words the radius of a cell is 1 km. Each cell has 3 sectors which are denoted by hexagons in the and . Each cell has 1000 registered users uniformly scattered across the 3 sectors i.e. average of 333 handsets sector. With these assumptions a Random Gauss Markov mobility model is used as a mobility model for purposes of simulation. This model is a fairly generalized mobility model that is suitable for large scale wireless networks as cellular networks because of its ability to mimic different types of mobility patterns for users by adjusting the mobility parameters. Examples of mobility models that can be modeled by a Random Gauss Markov mobility model include the random walk model the random waypoint model as well as the fluid flow mobility model. In this model the velocity speed and direction of a registered user is assumed to be constant for a fixed amount of time T and changes once every T seconds. Assuming that the velocity of the mobile at time instant t is right arrow over V t the velocity 2 dimensional vector at time instant t T is given by Equation 3 as follows 1 square root over 1 Equation 3 where 0 1 right arrow over V is the long term mean velocity vector of the mobile and each of the two components of the vector right arrow over V t are independent uncorrelated Gaussian processes with zero mean and a standard deviation a that is equal to the standard deviation of the velocity process. The mobility parameter a is given Equation 4 as follows e Equation 4 where is a parameter that determines the amount of memory in the mobility pattern.

Whenever is low handsets move haphazardly i.e. a random waypoint model . As 1 the mobility pattern of the handset approximates a straight line. The mobility parameters for a handset can be specified by the 4 tuple right arrow over V T . For purposes of simulation assume that i the distribution of the mean velocity of a handset right arrow over V is shown in ii the speed and direction of motion of each user is assumed to change every minute i.e. T 60 seconds iii the parameter a for each handset is randomly chosen from the distribution highlighted in where the distribution is determined by a suitable adjustment of for a given T and that iv the standard deviation for each handset is different and determined from the distribution specified in wherein the standard deviation a of the velocity process defined in the mobility model for each handset is held constant throughout a given simulation.

Referring to the mean velocity distribution indicates that a large number of handsets in a sector have low average speeds over a one hour period and a small fraction of handsets move at very high average speeds e.g. upwards of 50 . Further even though a mobile may have a low mean speed over a 1 hour period its instantaneous speeds can be significantly higher albeit for a small fraction of time.

2. Determining the Probability Distribution of the Inter Transmission Time of Distance Triggered RUP Messages

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the frequency of RUP messages depends on the parameters associated with the mobility model. In this section the probability distribution of the inter transmission time of RUP messages by a handset is determined via simulations. At time t 0 a large number of handsets e.g. 1000 are randomly scattered in the central cell in each cluster configuration. Each handset randomly chooses its mobility parameters as discussed above. Assume that the velocity of each handset changes once every minute and the simulation is run for a period of 60 minutes. An example path evolution of the velocity of a collection of 10 handsets is illustrated in . A review of indicates that the speed of movement of a handset exhibits both high degrees of correlation over time as well as frequent fluctuations in magnitude throughout the time span of the simulation run.

The trajectory followed by a set of 10 handsets unrelated to those illustrated in is illustrated in . illustrates a variety of mobility patterns followed by handsets over the course of the simulation run. In certain handsets follow a relatively linear path others follow a zig zag pattern and yet others are relatively stationary. It will be appreciated that handsets that move at high speeds and in a relatively straight line will naturally cross the cluster boundary in a short period of time. On the other hand handsets that are more or less stationary or moving randomly will tend to remain within the frontiers of a cluster for longer durations of time. In a simulation with the above assumptions out of a total of 1000 registered handsets that are associated with the central cell at time t 0 only 21.9 of the handsets remain within the confines of a 7 cell cluster 32.6 remain within a 19 cell cluster and 38.3 remain within a 37 cell cluster. This means that 78.1 of the handsets will exit a 7 cell cluster boundary 67.4 will exit a 19 cell cluster boundary and 61.7 exit a 37 cell cluster boundary.

Denoting the total number of handsets that are located within the cluster at time t by N t the probability of a handset exiting a cluster in a period of t minutes denoted by F t can be given by Equation 5 as follows 

The CDF F t of the simulation is illustrated in as a function of t. After a period of an hour some handsets remain within the cluster. Let the fraction of handsets that remain within the confines of the cluster after one hour be denoted by q where q is equal to 0.22 0.33 and 0.39 for 7 cell 19 cell and 37 cell clusters respectively. With these assumptions the probability distribution of a handset departing a cluster at by time T where 0 T 60 given that it is known to depart the cluster within one hour is equal to F T 1 q . The PDF F T 1 q is illustrated in for various cluster configurations.

The PDF F T 1 q can be approximated by an exponential distribution as shown in for a 7 cell and 19 cell cluster configuration respectively. A benefit of approximating the PDF F T 1 q using an exponential distribution is that it facilitates system wide analysis using a queuing theoretic framework to determine the rate of distance triggered RUP transmission thereby reducing the scalability issue associated with running a simulation with 50 000 handsets moving within a paging zone over a long period of time. Additionally because of the tightness of this approximation the relative errors between simulations and analytically derived results are kept relatively low.

Assuming that the amount of time a handset dwells within a cluster is modeled by an exponential distribution the departure of handsets from a cluster will be Poisson distributed. This occurs because departures from one cluster are arrivals into another cluster. Therefore the inter arrival time between two arrivals into a cluster from another cluster is exponentially distributed and the arrival process into a cluster from another cluster is a Poisson process. Additionally the superposition of arrival processes that are Poisson distributed from different clusters into a given cluster is also a Poisson process. Therefore the cumulative arrival process into a cluster is a Poisson process and can be analyzed as a queuing system as will be discussed below.

3. Determining the Distribution of the Inter Transmission Time of RUP Messages Using Queuing Theoretic Analysis

Consider the set of handsets that transmitted a RUP message to one of the central sectors in and . Following the RUP message transmission the average dwell time of a fraction 1 q of handsets within the cluster boundary is given by an exponential distribution as shown in . Following this duration these handsets will transmit another RUP message to a sector outside of the cluster configuration. For the remaining handsets that do not exit the cluster after a period of an hour it is assumed that the mobility parameters mean velocity and variance are updated based on a random selection from the associated distributions in and at the end of an hour and remains the same for the following hour.

Further assume the average number of handsets registered in a central cell is denoted by N. The average rate at which handsets present in the central cell leave the cluster can be computed using N T. In steady state the rate of departure of handsets from the central cell to any sector that lies outside the cluster configuration is equal to the rate of arrival of handsets from outside sectors into the central cell. Therefore the arrival rate of handsets into the central cell from outside of a cluster is simply N T. The arrival rate of handsets from outside of the cluster into a central sector is N 3 T . Therefore the average rate of RUP transmission in a sector can be by N 3 T . In an example assume N 1000. Assuming the average arrival rate of handsets into a central sector from outside of a 7 cell cluster denoted by can be upper bounded as Equation 7 as follows 

Similarly using the equations and assumptions above for a 19 cell cluster 8.72 handsets minute and for a 37 cell cluster 7.02 handsets minute. Assuming that the arrival of a handset into a sector from another cluster triggers exactly one RUP message the rate of RUP message transmissions is shown in Table 7 below for different cluster configurations.

Under peak loading conditions there can be up to 1000 registered users sector carrier. In this case the rate of RUP transmissions is approximately three times as much e.g. 3 0.21 0.63 RUP second for a 7 cell cluster size . If the average number of transmissions required to transmit an access probe successfully is 1 where 0 then the average rate of RUP transmissions will increase by a factor of 1 e.g. 0.06 . The transmission of distance triggered RUP messages in a cell is Poisson distributed with rate . For a 7 cell cluster configuration with a mean rate of 12.51 RUP messages minute the PDF of the rate of RUP messages is illustrated in .

Referring to the CDF of the instantaneous rate of distance triggered RUP transmissions in a sector can be as high as 18 RUPs minute even though the mean rate is 12.5 RUPs minute for a 7 cell cluster configuration.

As discussed above RUP messages are transmitted primarily when a handset crosses a cluster boundary. The rate of RUP transmissions for different cluster sizes under nominal loading conditions is listed in Table 6 above . Further RUP messages are transmitted when a handset is either an originator or a target of a call. For example the number of RUP messages received in a sector purely as a result of originating destined calls can be 0.37 RUP messages per second. Therefore the net rate of RUP transmissions over the Access Channel is simply the sum of the two rates since these events are independent of each other. For a 7 cell cluster the rate of access probe transmission is equal to 0.21 0.37 0.58 probes second sector. For 0.1 the average rate of access probes transmitted in a sector is 0.58 1.1 0.64 probes second sector. Under very high loads i.e. 1000 users sector carrier in a paging zone the rate of access probe transmission is approximately three times i.e. 3 0.58 1.1 1.92 probes second. Further the rate of RUP transmissions is strongly dependent on distributions of the mobility parameters right arrow over V as well as the actual topology of the cellular network.

With regard to the simulation described above in summation for a cluster configuration of 7 cells the average rate of RUP transmissions 12.5 RUPs minute. The 95percentile rate is approximately 18 RUPs minute. Assuming a paging zone has 37 cells the average rate of distance triggered RUP transmissions is 7.02 RUPs second. Therefore the additional load on the Access Channel due to a smaller cluster size is 12.51 7.02 5.49 RUPs minute. Under peak loading conditions with 1000 registered users per sector the average rate of RUP message for a 7 cell cluster increases by a factor of three i.e. 37.56 RUPs minute. The total load on the Access Channel due to distance triggered as well as call triggered probe transmissions is 38.4 probes minute. Under peak network population the load can be as high as 115 probes minute.

The concepts and simulations described above illustrate that cluster based direct DOS flooding is feasible in real world scenarios. Example implementations of cluster based direct DOS flooding will now be described to help further explain the concepts described above in detail.

In the RAN updates a location database indicating AT positions within the wireless communications system . In an example the RAN can replace a previously reported position of the AT with the new reported position in the RUP. In an alternative example the RAN can add the new location reported by the AT to the location database without replacing older locations e.g. to determine a trajectory or path of the AT . The location stored in a location database entry can be either the cluster of the reporting AT the cluster and sector of the reporting AT a geographic position of the reporting AT any combination thereof etc. In a further example the reported location of the AT associated with the RUP transmitted in is stored with an associated timestamp in . Thus assuming that the AT has an AT identifier ID of 878238 two example location database entries for the AT may be as follows 

In a further example while not illustrated in the RAN may periodically purge the location database of obsolete time entries. For example an age threshold for RUPs can be established e.g. 2 hours 2 days etc. such that any RUP older than the age threshold is removed from the location database.

Next in the RAN determines a location update rule to be enforced at the AT. For example the location update rule can be sent to a RUP upon entering a new sector a new cluster upon traversing a given geographic distance etc. Thus while examples provided above were limited to sending RUPs upon exiting a fixed set of sectors comprising a cluster in other embodiments of the invention the cluster can correspond to a geographic range a collection of sectors or other geographic partition. Further the RUP transmission can be based on time. In an example if an AT determines that it has not sent a RUP for more than a threshold time period the AT can transmit a RUP irrespective of whether the AT has changed clusters i.e. to notify the RAN that the AT remains in the cluster . For purposes of example assume the location update rule determined in is for the AT to send a new RUP upon exiting a cluster. After determining the location update rule in the RAN transmits the location update rule to the AT. Alternatively the location update rule need not be determined and transmitted in . Instead the AT could execute a default location update rule without instructions from the RAN .

In an example irrespective of whether the location update rule is ordered by the RAN or self executed by the AT the location update rule can be configured to be more demanding for ATs that are capable of decoding DOS announce messages and or for ATs at which DOS announce messages are expected to be sent. The location update rule can be made more demanding such that the AT sends RUPs more frequently and the RAN can track the location of the AT with greater precision. For example the location update rule can be made more demanding by decreasing the route update radius RUR or geographic distance that an AT traverses before sending a RUP by decreasing the threshold time period associated with RUP transmission and or increasing decreasing any other reporting criterion that will result in the RAN better able to track the location of the AT. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art increasing the precision of location tracking for DOS announce capable ATs can decrease the cluster size associated with a cluster based DOS flooding implementation which can save one or more sectors bandwidth on the downlink control channel.

In the AT sets the location update rule e.g. received from the RAN or a default location update rule . After setting the location update rule the AT resumes normal operation e.g. enters idle mode makes telephone calls sends text messages etc. . In the AT determines whether to update its location to the RAN by sending a new RUP. Assume that the AT has remained in sector D within cluster . Accordingly no RUP is transmitted and the process returns to .

Next assume that the AT moves from sector D of cluster to sector F of cluster . Accordingly in a next iteration of the AT determines to update its location maintained at the RAN by transmitted a new RUP. The AT transmits the RUP and the RAN updates its location database entry for the AT e.g. as discussed above with respect to .

In the RAN determines whether the cluster of the requested AT is known. For example the RAN can query a location database maintained therein to determine whether the AT has reported any RUPs and further whether the RUPs are relevant. For example a RUP that is 3 years old is likely to exceed an age threshold and thereby would not be a good indicator as to the AT s current cluster. Likewise if a series of RUPs indicates that AT is traveling at a very high speed the determined cluster may be based on the trajectory of the AT and not the actual cluster in which the AT last reported. On the other hand if the AT is slow moving based on its RUP history for example the AT s reported cluster may be used as the determined cluster in .

Assuming the RAN can determine a cluster for the AT in the process advances to . While not illustrated in if the RAN cannot determine a cluster for the AT the RAN will send the Announce message via the Standard Paging protocols discussed above i.e. the RAN sends a page for the AT in all sectors on a downlink paging channel waits for the paged AT to establish a traffic channel in a given sector and then sends the Announce message to the paged AT in that sector or via an unconditional Direct DOS flooding protocols discussed above i.e. the RAN transmits the Announce message on the downlink Control Channel in all sectors .

Accordingly assume that the given AT is located in sector F of cluster and has sent a RUP indicating the given AT s position at cluster . Under these assumptions the RAN schedules a DOS announce message for the given AT in . As discussed above DOS announce messages can be sent on the downlink control channel to page an AT with less delay on average than paging the AT on a standard paging channel. However because it is not typical for the DOS announce message to consume the entirety of the control channel cycle there are different ways in which the DOS announce message can be packaged into the control channel cycle. Examples of scheduling a DOS announce message for transmission on a control channel are discussed in greater detail below following the description of .

After the DOS announce message is scheduled the RAN transmits an Announce message announcing the call e.g. a multicast or PTT call to the given AT over the downlink Control Channel in each of sectors A through G in cluster . Also the RAN transmits a page for the given AT in each sector belonging to clusters and . Thus the RAN s knowledge of a position estimate of the AT based on the RUPs and maintained at the location database at the RAN permits the RAN to transmit a localized or cluster based control channel announce message instead of transmitting the announce message over the control channel in all sectors which consumes significant bandwidth.

While not illustrated in if the RAN determines the load on the downlink Control Channel in any sector of the determined cluster to be above a load threshold in the RAN may alternatively execute the Standard Paging protocols in that sector e.g. to avoid a delay in transmitting the Announce message on the downlink Control Channel while waiting for the Control Channel to become available .

Further while is directed as if the call requested in is a unicast call it will be appreciated that can be adapted for multicast implementations as well. For example the location determining step of can be configured to determine the clusters for each of a plurality of access terminals e.g. each multicast group member of the multicast group and the transmitting step can transmit the Announce message over a control channel within each determined cluster from in accordance with the scheduling from and the transmitting step can page the plurality of access terminals over a paging channel in sectors outside of each determined cluster.

As discussed above with respect to of there are many different ways in which one or more DOS announce messages can be scheduled within the cycle of a control channel. Accordingly four different scheduling methodologies are present below although other embodiments of the present invention can be directed to different scheduling methodologies or different combinations of the scheduling methodologies described below.

In a first example the DOS announce message can be scheduled on a control channel capsule e.g. either synchronous or sub synchronous of the control channel cycle. ATs are typically configured to monitor synchronous and sub synchronous capsules on the control channel cycle. Thus a simple way to announce the call for a particular AT is to position the DOS announce message in a control channel capsule that the AT is already planning on monitoring.

However while relatively simple to implement filling control channel capsules with DOS announce messages causes pages which otherwise would have occupied the control channel capsules to be delayed which increases the standby times of other ATs. If large numbers of DOS announce messages are sent the delay can be significant. However transmitting the DOS announce messages on control channel capsules may be used for example within sectors that do not have heavy page loading. In another example if the cluster size is sufficiently small the DOS announce message may be sent on a control channel capsule because only a relatively small number of sectors are affected by the increased standby times of standard pages on the control channel.

In a second example the DOS announce message can be scheduled after a given MAC packet e.g. a 1MAC packet in a control channel capsule that completes transmission and an indicator can be provided on the control channel to indicate that the scheduling of the DOS announce message is scheduled after the given MAC packet of the synchronous or sub synchronous capsule. For example the DOS announce message can be scheduled within an asynchronous CC capsule.

In an example the indicator that indicates the scheduling of the DOS announce message can be a bit in a QuickConfig message. For example a given field or bit e.g. ftc valid bit within the QuickConfig message can be used to convey the scheduling of the DOS announce message. The DOS announce message can then be transmitted in a different interlace than the control channel. For example the DOS announce message can be addressed to a unicast access terminal identifier UATI MAC address that identifies the target AT and included in an asynchronous control channel capsule following the first MAC packet in a synchronous control channel capsule. Thus a standard message e.g. QuickConfig message is used to convey information not typically associated with the standard message i.e. the DOS announce message scheduling .

In an alternative example the indicator that indicates the scheduling of the DOS announce message can provided within a proprietary message e.g. a StorageBlobAssignment or StorageBlobRequest for QChat that indicates to the AT that a DOS announce message will follow the first control channel MAC packet in a given capsule. In this example the proprietary message can be addressed to the multicast access terminal identifier MATI MAC address e.g. for a multicast call with a given bit reserved for DOS announce capable ATs as the indicator or alternatively to a unicast access terminal identifier UATI e.g. for a unicast call or to a broadcast access terminal identifier BATI e.g. for a broadcast call . For example the DOS announce message can be addressed to the UATI MAC address of the target AT and included in an asynchronous control channel capsule following the first MAC packet in either a synchronous or sub synchronous control channel capsule. In another example the DOS message itself need not be transmitted. In this example the RAN may encapsulate the application layer message inside a StorageBlob message. This approach also applies to other messages aside from announce messages such as voice media packets.

In a third example the DOS announce message can be scheduled on a given asynchronous control channel capsule and the scheduling of the DOS announce message can be conveyed to the target AT with a QuickPaging bit on the quick paging channel. In an example the quick paging channel can be logical or physical contains the PI bits and allows the DOS message to be transmitted in an interlace that is decoded in tandem with the synchronous or sub synchronous CC packet.

In a fourth example a hybrid method i schedules DOS announce messages on control channel capsules e.g. as in the first example in this section above and ii schedules the DOS announce message after a first MAC packet in the control channel capsule as indicated by a proprietary message e.g. as in the second example in this section above . For example the proprietary message can be encapsulated as part of a StorageBlobRequest e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration request or StorageBlobAssignment message in EV DO and transmitted in an initial control channel MAC packet in the synchronous or sub synchronous capsules. While this hybrid method can increase the design complexity over either method applied alone the delay associated with announce message transmission can be reduced over either method by itself e.g. assuming the control channel is not overloaded . The hybrid method discussed above is relativel accurate with respect to indicating the presence of the DOS message compared with the QuickPaging channel approach and can further improve the standby time for each handset.

In another example the proprietary message discussed above in the second and fourth examples can indicate the presence of any type of message in an asynchronous control channel capsule of the downlink control channel and not necessarily a DOS announce message. Further the proprietary message or other announce message indicators such as quickpage message etc. can indicate the presence of a single announce message as discussed above or alternatively can indicate the potential presence of multiple announce messages such that an AT interprets the announce message indicator as a request to check for more than one announce message. Thus in this example the AT would not simply cease monitoring for announce messages after decoding a first announce message. In yet another example the announce message can be staggered across the control channel capsule e.g. see and need not be scheduled in consecutive control channel capsule slots.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the above described methodologies regarding cluster based direct DOS flooding of announce messages can be directed to unicast messaging or alternatively in a multicast messaging scenario such as PTT e.g. QChat . One or more ATs e.g. multicast group members are configured to transmit RUPs based on a given location update rule and the RAN is configured to maintain a database indicating locations of the one or more ATs based on the RUPs. Thereby the RAN need only transmit control channel announce messages in proximity of the expected location of the ATs instead of the entire network.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

