---

title: Auto-selection of media files
abstract: Apparatus and methods to control selection of media content provide a mechanism to enhance user interaction with multimedia devices. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08122037&OS=08122037&RS=08122037
owner: Research in Motion Limited
number: 08122037
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20080721
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 127 796 filed 14 May 2008 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 127 813 filed 14 May 2008 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 052 640 filed 12 May 2008 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 052 633 filed 12 May 2008 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Access to information is an important factor in the activities of individuals in modern society. Improvements to the flow of information enhance one s ability to interact with others to respond to changing needs and to avail oneself of enjoyment from processing various media based information.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration details and embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice embodiments of the present invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the inventive subject matter. The various embodiments disclosed herein are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In various embodiments media content is managed in a system. Systems and methods for managing media content may be configured such that the management may be conducted with limited user interaction and in various embodiments the system may perform essentially autonomously. Media is a form of general communication information or entertainment which is typically intended to be used by a large audience thought not limited to a large audience. Various media may include but are not limited to music movies music videos television shows interactive applications audiobooks podcasts games personal presentation and other presentations. Each form of media may be referred to as media content or media art. An individual item of such media may be referred to as media content or media art. Media content may include content in any media format. Some examples of content may include but are not limited to audio files video files image files and multimedia files. Audio file formats may include but are not limited to MP3 AIFF WAV MPEG 4 AAC and Apple Lossless. Other example file formats for media content include but are not limited to files having extensions doc dot wpd txt xls pdf ppt jpg jpeg png bmp gif html htm zip tif tiff and wmf. Associated with a item of media art that is stored or processed on an apparatus is a media file which when operated on by an associated playing device player provides an output that can be presented as communication information entertainment other presentations or combinations thereof for the user.

Systems that manage media content may include various apparatus such as computer systems or other systems having hardware software and or hardware and software to manage media content. In various embodiments a personal computer PC can be used to manage media content and associated media files. A personal computer as is generally known herein refers to computing devices having an operating system OS such that use of the personal computer may be conducted by individuals having little or no knowledge of the basics of the underlying hardware and software that operate the PC and whose operation may be conducted without individuals typically authoring computer programs to operate the computer. Portable computers may include portable personal computers. An example of a portable PC is a laptop computer or notebook computer that typically has a display screen keyboard underlying hardware and software and a display pointing device that are all integrated in a housing that can easily be carried by an individual. Some personal digital assistants PDAs may be viewed as a type of portable computer. In various embodiments a PC may include instrumentality for managing media content and instrumentality to operate as a wireless server. A wireless server is a server configuration that communicates with an entity over a channel established by the entities in a wireless network.

Various instrumentalities can be realized in hardware implementations software implementations and combinations of hardware and software implementations. Some portions of the instrumentalities may be described in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a machine memory. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. The instrumentality may operate to process compute calculate determine display and or conduct other activities correlated to processes of a machine such as a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The instrumentality may provide personalized capabilities provide a pathway to other content or combinations thereof. The instrumentality may use distributed applications different numbers and types of software based components that couple two or more applications to enable data transfer between the applications hardware to provide services from a number of different sources and may be realized on a variety of platforms such as servers and content management systems. The instrumentality may include or provide access to subroutine code code libraries application program interfaces such as interpreters utilizing Java EE Simple DirectMedia Layer SDL and DirectX combinations thereof or other such electronic based functionalities.

In various embodiments a PC manages media content in relationship to one or more mobile devices. Each mobile device can play media files and can interact with the PC with respect to the management of media content on the respective mobile device. In various embodiments the mobile devices include instrumentalities similar to those of the PC to manage the media content on the mobile device to browse media files in one or more PCs and to engage with a PC in interactive management of media content on the mobile device on the PC and on other mobile devices in which the media content may be shared. Other apparatus configured with hardware software and or hardware and software to function in a similar manner as the PC to manage media content may be used in conjunction with the mobile devices. The mobile devices may be a mobile wireless communications devices. The mobile wireless communications devices may include but are not limited to mobile telephones portable computers PDAs and other devices that may be conveniently carried by a user and provide wireless communication. Mobile telephones include wireless communication devices that have generally been referred to as cell phones. Mobile telephones may include a wide range of communication devices from portable phones with limited functionality beyond voice communication to portable phones capable of providing the functionality of a personal computer.

In an embodiment a system organizes information associated with media content from multiple media sources into a single unified library file. The information may be organized as indexed information. Managing media content is not limited to a single library file. In various embodiments more than one library file may be utilized. Access to a library file can be provided to a number of mobile devices. The access may be provided as full access or limited access. For example access to a library file by a mobile device may be limited to a mobile device based on whether the mobile device has one or more media players to operate on the media content. Other criteria may be used to limit access to a mobile device. In various embodiments the library file is maintained on the system and is accessed from the mobile device remotely. In various embodiments a library file or a modified version of a library file can be transferred to the mobile device and the mobile device can access the library file locally. The library file can be used by the mobile device to transfer media content from one or more media sources to the mobile device. The mobile device may have wireless capabilities. The mobile device may be a mobile wireless communication device.

Media sources may include media libraries for media players such as but not limited to libraries for iTunes audio players Windows Media Player WMP RealPlayer and other players. Each library may include collections of various media content. A collection is a subset of the files in a library. The collections may include references to the files. Each collection may refer to anywhere from zero files to all of the files in the library. An example of a collection of a music library is a playlist. In various embodiments sources of media content may be files within one or more folders on a single computer system or on multiple computer systems.

Processing modules include software and or hardware to transfer media content from media sources to devices that use the associated media. Processing modules include instrumentality to operate as a connector which means that the processing modules interface with media sources to collect information associated with a media file configured to operate with a specific media player. Processing modules may be arranged with a set of connectors one for each type of media player incorporated in system or used by mobile devices whose media content is managed by system . Processing modules may include connectors to interact with mobile wireless communication devices where the mobile wireless communication devices are a source of media content. Processing modules may use but are not limited to a Windows COM interface or a XML file when connecting to various media sources. In addition processing modules may create a representation for example a library or libraries of information regarding the media content of the media content available from multiple media sources. In various embodiments media content may include information with respect to another media file that is played by a media player. For instance a jpeg Joint Photographic Experts Group file may be a file of album art for songs on an album where the media files of the songs are played on a media player.

In various embodiments output from processing modules is a representation created by processing modules . The representation may also be maintained by processing modules . Output may include device specific data for a mobile wireless communication device or a media player. Output may comprise metadata such as metadata based on user preferences or device settings. Generally metadata is information about data. Various media content may be metadata with respect to other media content. For example a file having a jpg file format may provide information regarding an audio file having a mp3 file format such that the jpg file is metadata for the mp3 file.

In an example embodiment the representation may be any means for identifying the content of the media source files. In some embodiments a library file created by processing modules contains metadata for the media content available in the one or more media sources . . . N but omits the actual media content. Library file may be organized using a standard format that represents the information contained in the media sources. In various embodiments the standard format is a compressed format and or a format that is substantially smaller than the media library itself. For example a media library with 30 GB of audio files may be presented by processing modules in a file that may be 200 KB.

In operation system for managing media content shown in creates a representation of the media content available in one or more media sources . . . N and provides a means for accessing the media content by any device with a media player including a mobile wireless communications device. The device may browse the representation and may select individual media content items to copy or transfer from the media source to the device. After selection all or a portion of the media content item maybe transferred to the device and may be played on a media player on the device. In various embodiments system brings content from multiple media sources into a single unified library and pushes out device specific metadata from the single library to the specific device.

Media sync engines . . . M can create representations such as a library file or files identifying media content available from multiple media sources and provide data from the library to mobile wireless communications devices . . . N. In an embodiment a media sync engine is an example of the processing modules shown in . In various embodiments a media sync engine provides a method to synchronize a media library such as an iTunes digital music library with a smartphone such as a BlackBerry brand smart phone. The files may be transferred using a wireless connection or a wired connection such as a high speed USB 2.0 connection.

Mobile wireless communications devices may include but are not limited to mobile telephones portable computers personal digital assistants PDAs media players and other devices that may be conveniently carried by a user and provide wireless communication. Mobile telephones include wireless communication devices that have generally been referred to as cell phones. Mobile telephones may include a wide range of communication devices from portable phones with limited functionality beyond voice communication to portable phones capable of providing the functionality of a personal computer. Multiple devices of different types capabilities may transfer media content using one or more media sync engines.

Connectors identify specific instances of a particular type of library on the PC or mobile device. In other words connectors perform a discovery function that finds individual libraries. A connector for a particular library is capable of communicating with a particular library or file using a corresponding application programming interface API protocols file formats etc. When an individual library is discovered the connector can retrieve media collections from that instance of the individual library. Connectors may include an iTunes connector a WMP connector a RealPlayer connector and various other connectors correlated to instrumentality for operating on the respective media files to provide a presentation to the PC user. An individual connector may be configured as a combination of a read only connector and a writeable connector. A writeable connector may perform such activities as adding a user assigned rating for a song creating a playlist editing a playlist deleting a song etc.

Finder provides a discovery mechanism for connectors. Finder may identify what connectors are available for processing. The available connectors may register with finder . If a separate connector is used for each type of library the particular connectors that are discovered by finder can determine what type of libraries are in the system in which processing modules operate.

Cache manager may also determine which of the available connector s to use. For example if a collection of media content may be accessed either by using iTunes software or through an iTunes xml file cache manager can determine whether to use the iTunes application connector or the iTunes xml file connector in order to access the iTunes collection. Cache manager may provide a unified interface to multiple sources libraries. Cache manager may maintain a buffer that unifies files from different libraries. For example if the same music track is present in multiple libraries e.g. in a user s iTunes library and in the user s Windows Media Player library the cache manager may maintain a single buffer that is an aggregation of the tracks from the different libraries. Alternatively cache manager may maintain a separate buffer for each of the different libraries. Cache manager may implement the buffer using any form of data storage. In various embodiments the data storage may either be persistent or non persistent.

In various embodiments cache manager may implement connector watchers. A connector watcher monitors one or more collections and determines when a collection has changed. For example if an iTunes xml file changes or if the iTunes library has been updated cache manager which monitors that particular collection detects the update and reads the changes into an appropriate buffer. Cache manager may also determine when to update the device library.

Embodiments as illustrated in and similar embodiments may be implemented as a desktop application to transfer media content from multiple sources to a mobile wireless device. The desktop application for managing media content may be launched on a PC. The desktop application may be automatically launched on startup of the PC. The desktop application may be launched on detection of a device connection to the PC. In various embodiments a user may launch the desktop application. Alternatively embodiments as illustrated in and similar embodiments may be implemented to allow a mobile wireless device to update content already present on the mobile wireless device with media content from multiple sources.

In various embodiments a system managing media content can be structured to operate provide a number of different features. Content from multiple media sources may be entered into a single unified library and device specific metadata pushed out from the single library. A library file in a format to provide a compact representation of media metadata may be generated as output of processing modules similar to processing modules discussed with respect to . Varying schema can be used for choices to select group and rearrange data in the representation in the file format. Various features of a managing system may include maintaining representations of original source identifications so that an identifier such as an ID a path etc. may be used to track manage information regarding different multiple sources of substantially the same media content. Various features of a managing system may include injecting or modifying metadata for a media file during transfer to a device. Examples of injected metadata may include album art volume settings and other device settings user preferences and other parameters.

Management of media content on a mobile device may be realized through interaction with a media sync engine of one or more apparatus such as multiple PCs. The mobile device such as a mobile wireless communication device through such interaction acquires information regarding the availability of media files on each PC and an identity of the PC that was the source of media content existing on the mobile device.

Various features of the managing system may include a simplified user interface UI on the PC for transferring information to the mobile device and representing information that is present on the mobile device. The UI may generate representations to provide criteria for handling user selection of media content that exceeds device capacity. In various embodiments applications in the PC may use the information in the library of the PC to autonomously handle user selection of media content that exceeds device capacity. The UI can provide an automatic fill function for a user to select such that the PC automatically handles selection of media content to transfer to the mobile device. In the various embodiments a mobile device may be a mobile wireless communication device. A mobile wireless communication device may include instrumentality to manage media content in substantially the same manner as a PC.

At media files are automatically selected from the plurality of media files based on the confidence levels to fill a media storage of a device where the media storage is an allocated amount of a storage medium of the device. The media files selected to fill the media storage of the device are selected to fill a portion of the media storage that is determined to be available for automatic filling. The available portion may be an amount of storage remaining after a user has selected a set of media files for storage on the device. A randomizing process may be applied to a categorized set of the media files. Subsequently a set of media of media files may be selected from the categorized set to fill the media storage of the device based on the randomizing process. A comparison of file sizes of the categorized media files can be applied with respect to a portion of the media storage that is determined to be available for automatic filling. This comparison provides an additional filter for automatically selecting the media files to fill the media storage of the device.

At a list is updated with information corresponding to the selected media files. The list can be transmitted to the device as a playlist. The device may be a mobile wireless communication device.

In various embodiments a single device can request an autofill selection of media files from multiple PCs to which it can connect. Each of these autofill selections can be combined into a single autofill playlist for the device. If a new autofill selection is requested from any individual PC the media files in the autofill playlist originating from that PC can be replaced with new selections while the media files originating from other PCs can remain untouched. In an embodiment a mobile device while already containing a selection of media files originating from multiple PCs may be connected or in communication with a PC in which another autofill process may be requested. The currently existing selection of media files from the multiple PCs forms a single playlist of media files on the mobile device where the currently existing selection of media files may have been obtained either partially or completely using autofill processes of the multiple PCs. With the currently connected PC being one of the originating PCs of the playlist on the mobile device if the autofill process is used to choose a new selection of media files from the connected PC the media files currently residing on the mobile device that originated from the connected PC may be deleted and replaced with a new selection of media files according to the autofill process of the connected PC. All media files originating from other PCs will remain untouched. In various embodiments a mobile device can enter into interactive communication with a PC such that an autofill process can be conducted without transferring a media file that is determined to be essentially a copy of a media file currently on the mobile device that was acquired from another PC.

In various embodiments an autofill process may be applied to a set of media art selected by a user in which the combined size of the files of the media art is larger than the allotted storage space for the mobile device for which the media art was selected. The autofill process can be used to choose a subset of the media art selected by the user. If all selected media art is considered to be equally desired by the user the subset of the selected media art can be chosen by determining which combinations of the media art allows the largest number of media files that match the allotted storage space for the mobile device. If the selected media art is considered to have different desirability relative to each other with respect to the user the subset of the selected media art can be chosen by ordering the selection of media art by confidence levels of likeability with the highest confidence level first and by choosing the media art starting at the first position of the ordered list until it is determined that additional files from the list would again exceed the allotted storage space for the mobile device.

In various embodiments media to transfer to a mobile device can be automatically and or randomly selected. For example in some embodiments the selection of media art to transfer automatically to the mobile device is based on but not limited to a user s previously determined selection of individual media art playlists folders and libraries. In another example the individual selection of media art to transfer to the mobile device is based on but not limited to a random selection of individual media art playlists folders and libraries. In various embodiments a user may select individual media art to transfer to the mobile device and then if additional storage space is available a media sync application among other actions may randomly select additional media art to transfer to the mobile device and or apply rules preferences to select additional media art to transfer to the mobile device. The automatic filling of the available medium for storing media files may be limited by a threshold level to which the available medium may be stored. For example if the mobile device has allocated X amount of storage for media files a threshold for autofilling may be set at a percentage of the X amount for instance 90 . The threshold level can be adjusted in the apparatus that controls the autofill selection process.

In various embodiments the individual selection of music to transfer to the mobile wireless device may be based on rules or preferences that are either set up by the user or defined by the media sync application. Some example types of rules defined by the media sync application include rules based on ratings e.g. transferring songs based on user ratings of the song transferring songs based on third party ratings of the song and so on and rules based on frequency of use e.g. transferring songs that have been played within a recent period of time transferring songs that have recently been added to one or more playlists folders or libraries transferring songs based on frequency of play of the song by an individual user or a group of users and so on . However various embodiments are not limited to rules based on ratings or frequency. Rules defined by the user or media sync application may include rules defining any type of grouping of music including but not limited to artist album genre composer year of recording words phrases contained in the title or lyrics user comments or classifications or any other system of arranging music. In addition rules based on frequency may be combined with rules for grouping. For example frequency rules may be applied within each genre of music which may be combined with frequency of rules to select a genre for download.

In various embodiments a specifically selected list of songs may be automatically downloaded. The specifically selected list of songs may include but is not limited to individually songs previously selected by a user or a folder of music. A selection criterion may include a determination of the capacity of the music folder such that download of the music folder may be blocked if the contents of the music folder are too large for a target mobile wireless device. Another selection criterion may include whether or not a music folder has a threshold amount of music to provide a desired sampling of music.

In various embodiments a randomized selection from a personal playlist may be automatically downloaded. The randomized selection may include a limited randomization in which a randomized selection of music from a selected genre or other basis for selection is downloaded. The selected genre or other basis for selection may be randomly chosen. A randomized selection from folder on the PC may be automatically downloaded. The randomized selection from a folder may include a limited randomization in which a randomized selection of music from a selected genre or other basis for selection is downloaded. The selected genre or other basis for selection may be randomly chosen.

Various criteria may be used to provide an automatic download of music. These criteria may be based on confidence levels of likeability related to but are not limited to the frequency of use of the song by the user a selection according to a rating of music with higher rated music selected selection of recently added music according to some time frame selection of top played music from the PC based on multiple users of the PC selection of music such that a specified amount of storage space will remain as free space in a given location of the mobile wireless device and other features that made be quantified.

In various embodiments confidence levels of likeability of media art can be based on features such as ratings of the media art bit rate for playing the media file of the media art the length of time for playing the media art a skip count the instances that the user plays the media art the relative frequency a media genre is played by the user and other features that can be quantized to some degree by one or more applications on a PC. The confidence levels may be generated using metadata associated with the media files that can be autonomously collected through activities occurring on the PC and or as metadata collected by applications running on the PC. Using these confidence levels media files may be managed in a PC or other apparatus on behalf of the user without significant interaction with the user. In addition such applications may be run on mobile devices such as mobile wireless communications devices.

The various confidence levels can be provided as input to the PC from various sources. For example data correlating media art to a rating of likeability can be gathered from media based Internet sites and publications correlated and entered as data in the PC. Media art such as music movies and books are commonly given ratings as to their quality of entertainment by different organizations. With such ratings provided on the Internet by different organizations applications can run on the PC to acquire this rating information. In addition a search of the Internet can be used to estimate the number of instances these rating sites are accessed to provide a relative quality level among the sources. The Internet search may be autonomously run by an application on PC that is connected to the Internet. The combination of the media art rating and the rating of the rating sources can be used to generate one form of a confidence level of likeability of the media art by the user.

A bit rate for playing specified media art can be evaluated relative to the user s playing of the media art on the PC. For each media file of a media type played on the PC an application on the PC can capture the number of times the media file is played. With the bit rate for each media file known a distribution can be generated that represents the frequency that a bit rate is used relative to the total number of times the media type is played. The bit rate corresponding to media files that are seldom played may be given a low confidence level of likeability while the bit rate corresponding to media files that are frequently played may be given a high confidence level of likeability.

The length of time for playing a media art may be correlated with a popularity for the media art. For example one version of a song having a playing length of a number of minutes may be correlated to the popularity of the song as demonstrated by the amount of sales of the song over a length of time. Publications may publish the number of sales of the song which may be collected by a search over the Internet. Alternatively such data may be entered into the PC as data stored to be used by applications on the PC relative to the media files being managed by the PC. The Internet may be monitored for the public playing of the songs stored in the PC with each occurrence being collected. Since an Internet source may not play a song for the total length of the song a threshold may be set such that if the length of time that the song is played on the Internet is greater than the threshold the song is considered as having been played. Since a song may have different versions corresponding to different playing times each of the multiple versions may be taken as a song different from the other versions of the song to collect the data related to playing time monitored on the Internet. The length of play time corresponding to media files that are seldom purchased or played publicly may be given a low confidence level of likeability while the length of time corresponding to media files that are frequently purchased or played publicly may be given a high confidence level of likeability.

A skip count herein is a count of the number of times a media art which is in a ordered collection of media art is not played during the playing of the ordered collection of media art on a PC. With a specific media art being at a kposition in the ordered collection activity by a user that plays the media art at the k 1 position of the ordered collection after the playing the media art at the k 1 position can be monitored and a count stored in the PC can be incremented. Such an activity indicates that the user has skipped over the specific media art. For example a user may not particularly like a song at track 2 of a particular album and may control the application on the PC playing the album to skip over song at track 2 of a particular album. However there may be reasons for skipping over track 2 other than likeability of the song. To make an estimate of the likeability in addition to maintaining a skip count for a specified song a skip count is maintained along with a count of the number of times the album an ordered collection of songs is played on the PC. For each song on the album the percentage of times that the song is skipped relative to the number of times the song is played can be determined and used as a statistic. The distribution of these percentages among the songs of the album can be determined and each song can be assigned a confidence level for likeability relative to the given album.

Another confidence level for likeability can be generated by taking a count of the number of times a particular album is played relative to the other albums played on the PC. This confidence level can be used as one data point when autofilling based on the entire music library on the PC. A statistic related to a count of the number of times a particular album is played can also be categorized according to genre of music played. The count of the number of times this particular album is played relative to other albums of the same genre played on the PC can be collected. Based on the frequency of play statistics can be generated as data points for terming a confidence level of likeability to be used in autofilling a playlist and or downloading a set of media files to a device.

The instances that a user plays a given media art may be collected on the PC and the count can be used in providing a confidence level of likeability. For example the number of times a user plays a song independent of whether the song is on an album can be collected along the total number of times that the user plays songs on the PC. The collected number of times a user plays a song relative to the total number of times that the user plays songs can be used as another data point to determine a confidence level. In addition the number of times a user plays a song independent of whether the song is on an album can be collected along the total number of times that the user plays songs of the same music genre on the PC.

The various features to provide characteristics to generate confidence levels can also be categorized with respect to time intervals when the media art was played. Each time interval can be given a weight. These weights can be normalized with respect to the number of time intervals considered. For instance four intervals can be assigned weights of 0.1 0.2 0.3 and 0.4 with 0.4 assigned to the time interval closest to a current time and 0.1 assigned to the time interval farthest from the current time as a possible indication of popularity. In addition the same weights may be assigned to the same time intervals in reverse order as a possible indication of whether the user may desire a change. Then the popularity weight and chance weight can be assigned a weight with respect to each other and a confidence level can be generated from a combination of the different weights.

The various confidence levels of likeability of different features for each media art may be treated similar to probabilities. For example a combined confidence level may correspond to the occurrence of two independent features then the confidence level may be realized as the product of the confidence levels of the two features. An overall or combined confidence level of likeability can be generated by combining the respective confidence levels of the different features. The combined confidence level may be realized as an average of the confidence levels of the different features. In addition the confidence levels may be expressed by a base 2 logarithm to allow many orders of magnitude of confidence to be efficiently expressed and compared. Further each feature such as ratings of the media art bit rate for playing the media file of the media art the length of time for playing the media art a skip count the instances that the user plays the media art the relative frequency a media genre is played by the user and other quantized features can be provided weights with respect to each other. These feature weights may also be treated in a manner similar to probabilities. A combined confidence level may be realized as a weighted average of the confidence levels of the different features. The various applicable weighted data points can be combined for each media art to assign an overall level of confidence with respect to the media art within its type of art. For instance confidence levels of likeability can be applied but not limited to songs relative to songs movies relative to other movies and audio books to other audio books.

The assigned weights and confidence levels can be stored in the PC and accessed when an application applies these weights and confidence levels to operate on the media files managed by the PC. In addition the assigned weights and confidence levels may be varied. Sets of assigned weights and confidence levels may be stored to account for variances in the collected data and different views proportioning the features to assign weights and confidence levels. In forming an autofill of media art for a device at different times different sets of assigned weights and confidence levels can be used. In addition each set may be given a weight. A random number generator may be used to select a particular set.

The confidence levels for likeability can be used in a number of ways to provide an autofill of media files for a device. For instance for a playlist of songs the list of song tracks can be generated. A random number can be generated and compared to the confidence level of a song on the list. If the random number is less than the confidence level the song can be selected for the playlist. In addition if the size of the media file for the song is less than the available space in the allotted storage capacity for music media files on the device the song is placed on the playlist. When the song is placed on the playlist a count or measure of the available storage space on the device is decreased by the size of the media file of the song placed on the playlist. If the random number was greater than the confidence level the song is not selected for the playlist. A random number is generated for another song and compared with the confidence level of this song with the song placed on the playlist only if the random number is less than the confidence level of this song and the music file for the song is less than the current available storage space on the device. If the media file is large than the available storage space the song is not placed on the playlist and another song is evaluated with respect to its confidence level and the amount of available space in the allotted storage capacity. A playlist may be generated in which the selected songs do not completely fill the allotted capacity as a result of the selection process. Various permutations of this process may be used such as ordering the list of songs by confidence level before beginning the use of the random number generator. Also the comparison of the random number with the confidence level may be made with respect to selection corresponding to the random number being greater than the confidence level. In various embodiments prior to the selection process all songs having a confidence level less than a threshold confidence level may be eliminated for consideration in the autofill process.

Other autofill procedures may be implemented. For autofilling a playlist of songs the songs may be ordered by their confidence levels. Filling the playlist may be realized by comparing the size of the media file with the allotted storage capacity for music media files on the device. If the size of the media file is less than the allotted storage capacity the song is added to the playlist and a count of the allotted storage is decreased by the amount of media file of the selected song. If the size of the media file is greater than the allotted storage capacity the song is not added to the playlist and the next song on the ordered list is evaluated with respect to the current count of the allotted storage. The process continues until the playlist is full of songs such that the size of the combination of selected media files is less than the actual allotted storage capacity of the device determined at the start of the process and each of the songs on the ordered list not selected for the playlist has a file size that is greater than the difference between the actual allotted storage capacity and the size of the combination of selected media files. In various embodiments prior to the selection process all songs having a confidence level less than a threshold confidence level may be eliminated for consideration in the autofill process.

Other procedures for selecting media art for a playlist using confidence levels associated with the media art may be implemented for an autofill process. In various embodiments modifications to the various procedures may be made such that the autofill may be conducted within a selected genre of the media art to autofill just with media art of the selected genre. A confidence level of likeability can be assigned to the different genres of a media art and an autofill by genre may be conducted beginning with selection of a genre using a random process to select the genre based on the confidence levels of likeability of the genres. The use of confidence levels can be adjusted to limit the factors contributing to the confidence levels to those that are appropriate for selection of genres as the basis for auto fill. In various embodiments modifications to the various procedures may be made such that the autofill may be conducted based on other features of a media art such as but not limited to play length and bit rate for playing the media art where the use of confidence levels is adjusted to limit the factors contributing to the confidence levels to those that are appropriate for the feature selected as the basis for auto fill. The feature selected as the basis for the autofill process may also be selected using a random process with respect to the confidence levels of the feature types with respect to each other.

In various embodiments a UI for managing media files on a device and pending transfers is provided. The UI may include graphical indicators for status e.g. on device on PC etc and or actions e.g. download purchase preview email play remotely . Some example UI screens from a device are provided in .

The embodiments shown in may be implemented as a desktop application to synchronize media content with a mobile wireless communications device. The embodiments shown in may also allow a user to use a mobile wireless communications device to browse and synchronize a library on a PC with a library on the mobile wireless communications device.

In various embodiments device configurations and operational methods are provided for a user of a mobile wireless communications device to remotely view and or manage their music home music libraries directly from their mobile wireless communications device with the ability to synchronize transfer music through wired connectivity and or wirelessly and justifies them within their context of use. Such transfer may be realized in a personal computer PC . Such transfer may be realized in a wireless server in which the user and or the mobile wireless communications device are registered as being allowed to enter into such transfers. The wireless server may be configured in a personal computer. The mobile wireless communications device may be a handheld device such as a cell phone type device. The mobile wireless communications device may be a portable computer such as a lap top computer. Such configurations and operating structures provide a straight forward user friendly way both in a user s mobile wireless communications device and in a personal computer of the user for managing multimedia files audio files video files and or combinations thereof belonging to a user or which the user is allowed to access.

In various embodiments transfer sync of multimedia files audio files video files and or combinations thereof between a computer and associated media managers of the computer and a mobile wireless communications device may be accomplished using a number of mechanisms. The transfer sync between the mobile wireless communications device and the wireless server maybe accomplished through a USB connection. The transfer sync between the mobile wireless communications device and the wireless server maybe accomplished through a Wi Fi communication session. The transfer sync between the mobile wireless communications device and the wireless server maybe accomplished over wide area network WAN such as a wireless network.

In various embodiments a mobile wireless communications device is configured with hardware software and combinations thereof to view offline from its associated PC or associated wireless server and offline from the Internet a library or libraries that may include multimedia files audio files video files photos videos podcasts and or combinations thereof in the mobile wireless communications device. Such libraries may include libraries of iTunes Windows Media Player other music libraries video libraries and other multimedia libraries. The mobile wireless communications device may include executable instructions allowing its user to view edit delete and schedule multimedia music video and or combinations for sync between the mobile wireless communications device and its associated personal computer or wireless server. All changes requests transfers may occur automatically upon establishment of one of more of USB Wi Fi or WAN connections to the associated personal computer or wireless server. In various embodiments the personal computer may be configured with appropriate instrumentalities to operate as a wireless server. The hardware and software of the mobile wireless communications device may include a multimedia sync application having a remote management tool to manage a user s libraries of the user s PC such as but not limited to music from the user s iTunes or Windows Media Player WMP directly from the mobile wireless communications device. Various embodiments provide functions to manage play and sync multimedia presentations video and or music that bridge the gap between PC sync and remote access to realize media management from a handheld wireless device rather than limiting such management to a desktop.

In various embodiments mobile wireless communications devices are configured to allow offline access to a user s entire PC music library and to allow a 2 way sync including wireless between the mobile wireless communications device and the target media manager on a user s PC. For example a mobile wireless communications device may be configured to schedule downloads and syncs of media avoiding limitations associated with streaming the media content directly to the handset. The mobile wireless communications device may be configured with a remote management application and a wireless sync application where each has access an optimized copy of the user s media library directly from the mobile wireless communications device. Access to this library may not require a network connection to an associated PC or a server on the Internet. The library may be arranged as a multimedia library a music library a video library or a combination thereof. In an embodiment an optimized version of a user s music library may be contained on the user s mobile wireless communications device allowing for offline viewing and management such that only the optimized music library file i.e. an index is present on the user s mobile wireless communications device not the actual songs themselves. Any edits or requests for download sync will sync with the user s associated PC upon connection via USB WAN or WLAN wireless local area network . New media content such as new music content that have been requested for download may be contained in a download manager queue and may be sent to the user s device upon the next USB or Wi Fi connection. The download may be sent on the next connection in a wireless network to which the computer is coupled. In an embodiment should the user choose they can force transfer download of any item in the pending download queue over a cellular network.

In various embodiments a mobile wireless communications device may be configured with hardware and software that provide simple ease of use for the user integration between the mobile wireless communications device and a desktop manager and or a media sync application of a wireless server configured in a personal computer support of USB sync WLAN sync WAN sync or sync using combinations thereof between a user s PC and their mobile wireless communications device integration with different media players such as but not limited to iTunes and Windows Media Player ability for a user to view their media libraries directly from the mobile wireless communications device without a network connection for viewing via a small optimized copy of the libraries ability to view library content by album artist genre playlists ability to add music such as but not limited to individual songs albums artists playlists to a download manager queue ability to transfer synchronize media in the download queue with the user s mobile wireless communications device upon next USB or Wi Fi connection to their associated PC or associated PCs and a 2 way sync with media libraries on the users home PC. A 2 way allows for activity on a mobile wireless communications device to be conducted in a manner similar to the activity of the PC. For example if a user deletes music or creates edits a playlist from their mobile wireless communications device the data can be transmitted wired and or wirelessly and these changes reflected in the media libraries on the user s associated PC which may include iTunes and WMP among others. Further if a user deletes music or creates edits a playlist from their associated PC via one or more libraries on the PC the data can be transmitted wired and or wirelessly and these changes reflected on the mobile wireless communications device. For example new media content that have been requested for download may be contained in a download manager queue and may be sent to the user s mobile wireless communications device upon the next USB Wi Fi or wireless network connection. Should the user choose they can force transfer download any item in the pending download queue over a cellular network.

In various embodiments a mobile wireless communications device may be configured to operate with any operating system that may be used in a cellular device. The mobile wireless communications device may be configured with access to media functions with external controls to virtually provide for unlimited storage for a user s media with independence from the PC desktop to manage all user media needs directly from their portable wireless device with an open marketplace to discover acquire music directly from a portable wireless device with automatic updates sync of activity conducted on a portable wireless device with ability to play music on a portable wireless device with other devices such as a car a home stereo or other such device with remote access from the user s mobile wireless communications device to access to their PC library of music and other media.

In various embodiments a media wireless sync feature may be installed on a PC with installation of an associated wireless server as illustrated in . The installation may be realized using a USB connection. The installation may be realized initiated using a USB connection and completed over an Internet connection. The installation may be realized using a Wi Fi connection. The installation may be realized initiated using a Wi Fi connection and completed over an Internet connection. After completion of the installation of the media wireless sync feature a message indicating that the media wireless features functionality are enabled may be provided to the user via the mobile wireless communications device the PC and or both.

The media sync application of the mobile wireless communications device may support multiple mobile wireless communications device users within a home based on a registration for example based on a personal identification PIN . The libraries and the sync to these libraries may be partitioned among the various users of the PC. For example one person may choose to sync music with one library such as iTunes another person may choose to sync with another library such as Windows Media Player and a third person may choose to sync with both libraries. The user interface of the wireless server on the PC may allow for dynamic selection of supported media managers as well as remember the last media manager store the identity of the last media manager or last several media managers to which a specific mobile wireless communications device synchronized with it and to remember preferences associated with the synchronization. In an embodiment a file may be specified not to be transferred to the mobile wireless communications device unless the file is supported by the mobile wireless communications device. Users may be made aware of this through a graphic user interface if a specific file or file type has been identified as not being selectable for sync. For example music files that are not to be synced may be shown using an icon or other indicator of a lock condition when a user is viewing their music library from the mobile wireless communications device.

From the user s mobile wireless communications device the user may observe the status of connectivity to their home PC via a wireless server on the home PC. This view can enable the user to determine if they are able to sync and or download content via Wi Fi WAN or other connection. illustrates a non limiting example of a user interface showing connectivity. A media sync application provides a user with an ability to view offline either a media library directly from a mobile wireless communications device allowing them to view edit delete and schedule music for sync. All changes requests music transfers can occur upon a USB Wi Fi or WAN connection to their home PC. With a wireless server on a home PC offline an error message may be generated to indicate the status of the wireless server when attempting to force a transfer or download via a network connection.

An optimized version of a user s music library contained by a library in the user s PC may be contained on the user s device allowing for offline viewing and management. The optimized media library file may be arranged as an index on the user s mobile wireless communications device. Media filed in the mobile wireless communications device may be stored in the mobile wireless communications device separate from the optimized media library file. During setup and at any time of the desktop media sync application users can select which media manager or managers that they would like configured for remote management and wireless sync.

From a user s mobile wireless communications device a user may able to enter the total music library or individual libraries and sort by all songs name artist album and music genre. The user may also be able to view by all playlists standard and smart automatic as well as those contained in folders. When viewing a playlist from the mobile wireless communications device users also may able to view sort by all songs name artist album and music genre. Viewing and sorting is not limited to music but may be applied to photos video and other multimedia presentations. With the optimized music library file as an index present on the users mobile wireless communications device and not all the actual songs themselves contained within the library the optimized library may be sufficiently small allowing the library to be stored on the internal memory of the user s mobile wireless communications device. In various embodiments swapping memory cards does not disable remote management.

In various embodiments the optimized media library file on the user s mobile wireless communications device may be refreshed and kept in sync with the media libraries on the user s PC. This sync may provide automatic updating so that the most up to date view of the media library accessible to the PC is available to the user from their mobile wireless communications device. An updated synchronized copy of the media library may be transferred to the user s mobile wireless communications device upon the next USB WLAN WAN connection to the desktop music sync application.

In viewing their home media library from the mobile wireless communications device the view may be provided in a manner that it similar to how the media library is displayed on the local PC. illustrates an example of viewing a media library that is easy to use intuitive and structured in such a way that it allows users to easily view their media library directly from the media application on the mobile wireless communications device. The view may also provide a view of media that is on their mobile wireless communications device vs. what is not on the mobile wireless communications device with respect to what is in the home libraries. The view may also provide a view of media that has been added to the media download manager as pending downloads that will be transferred synchronized with their device upon the next USB sync WLAN sync or WAN sync with the mobile wireless communications device. The user may also be provided with an indication of the total amount of memory corresponding to media on their mobile wireless communications device including free available memory media at an associated PC such as a home PC and media in the download manager pending download. The media may be further presented in various categories such as music video and other multimedia presentations.

In various embodiments when a user views their home music library it may be similar to how they view the media local to their mobile wireless communications device to edit the home media library. Users may be able to edit their home music library from a remote management application with a wireless sync feature allowing them to delete media such as music on a selected basis and or edit playlists. For example the selected basis allows for editing music based on individual songs albums artists genres or playlists. For example using edit playlists as a basis allows for adding and or removing songs contained in one or more playlists. These edits may sync with the users PC and the corresponding media manger library or libraries upon the next USB WLAN WAN connection to the desktop media sync application on their home PC. Delete actions may be accompanied by a prompt inquiring as to whether or not the user would like to delete the item from the specified library on the mobile wireless communications device only keep file on computer or from the specified library on the associated computer as well.

A user may be provided with a view that indicates in a straight forward manner the total amount of memory corresponding to individual items in the download manager and to total items in the download manager. The following options may be available to the user when viewing the contents of the download manager 1 delete i.e. remove items from the download manager which may include an item no longer being requested for transfer sync with the device and 2 download now which allows for manual force transfer of media via a WAN. Users may be prompted that this may result in cellular data charges as per their existing mobile wireless communications device data plan. Other options may be provided.

Controller and memory system can be arranged to manage media content and associated information on system . In an embodiment system is arranged as a PC. The PC may include instrumentality distributed throughout the PC to operate as a wireless server. System arranged as a PC can operate according to any of the various embodiments discussed herein to manage media content and associated information within the PC and or in conjunction with one or more mobile devices such as mobile wireless communications devices.

In an embodiment system is arranged as a mobile device. The mobile device may be a mobile wireless communications device. System arranged as a mobile device can operate according to any of the various embodiments discussed herein to manage media content and associated information within the mobile device and or in conjunction with a PC or other apparatus having software and or hardware to manage media content.

Various embodiments or combination of embodiments for apparatus and methods for a system such as a PC to manage media content as described herein can be realized in hardware implementations software implementations and combinations of hardware and software implementations. These implementations may include a machine readable medium having machine executable instructions such as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for operating the system in a relationship with one or more mobile devices such that media content and associated information is managed between the system and the mobile device. The communications of the system with a mobile wireless communications device can be conducted on a secured basis. The machine readable medium is not limited to any one type of medium.

Various embodiments or combination of embodiments for apparatus and methods for a mobile device such as a mobile wireless communications device as described herein can be realized in hardware implementations software implementations and combinations of hardware and software implementations. These implementations may include a machine readable medium having machine executable instructions such as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for operating the mobile device to manage its media content and associated information within the mobile device in conjunction with a system such as a PC and or with respect to other mobile devices. The communications between a mobile wireless communications device and the system can be conducted on a secured basis. The machine readable medium is not limited to any one type of medium.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon studying the above description.

