---

title: Orifice test device for protective mask testers
abstract: An orifice test calibration device tests the functionality of protective mask testers. The orifice test calibration device has a semi-rigid tubular channel with one end for sealing the flow outlet port of the protective mask tester and a second end for sealing the vacuum inlet port of the protective mask tester. The device also includes a sealable opening within the tubular channel and an insertable orifice plug having a set diameter for insertion into the sealable opening in order to calibrate the protective mask tester.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07743647&OS=07743647&RS=07743647
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07743647
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080821
---
This Application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 468 943 filed on Aug. 31 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 415 864.

This present invention relates to orifice test calibration devices for testing the functionality of a protective mask tester.

Protective respiratory masks protect the wearer s face eyes and lungs from the effects of hazardous airborne chemical or biological agents under circumstances such as soldiers operating in a chemically or biologically contaminated environment. Protective masks may additionally be used in numerous other operating environments such as firefighting environmental cleanup manufacturing medical hazard handling quarantining of patients with highly contagious pathogens biological and chemical warfare mining paint applications construction and other applications where persons may come into contact with hazardous substances especially airborne hazards. Typically the protective mask is worn over the wearer s face and seals the face from the ambient atmosphere. The protective mask cleans the air entering the mask by means of a filter device generally having chemically impregnated fibers HEPA filters and a bed of adsorbent material such as activated charcoal. During operation a one way inlet valve in the mask allows air drawn in by the wearer s lungs to pass through a filter containing the filtration media to provide a flow of filtered air into the mask. As the wearer exhales the exhaled gas is expelled through a one way outlet valve out of the mask and the process is repeated with each breath.

The protective mask provides the wearer with protection from toxic airborne substances only with proper fit and function. Therefore it is extremely important that the mask be properly tested to ensure that it will protect the wearer from these life threatening agents. Proper testing of the protective masks requires that the protective mask testers be properly calibrated. Gas mask testers such as the Army s M14 commercially available TDA 99M TDA 99B TDA 104 Q204 and the Joint Service Mask Leakage Tester JSMLT provide a platform for testing the serviceability of gas masks particularly with regard to leakage of the mask. These testers may be portable or fixed devices having clamping mechanisms inflatable mask seals and clamping adapters for fixing the masks in place for testing. For example the assessment process of a protective mask using the portable TDA 99M Respirator Function Tester uses a microprocessor to test the reliability of the functional components of the mask testing for overall mask integrity the drink train functions and outlet valve assembly operation. The TDA 99M is a self contained unit with an inflatable mask seal different sized headforms and several adapters that permit leak testing of protective masks. The assessment process begins with a visual inspection of each mask for numerous specified defects followed by a mechanical evaluation using the TDA 99M. During the mechanical testing process the mask is strapped on the tester s headform and covered with a shroud. The mask seal is then inflated sealing the mask to mimic a proper fit. Inflatable seals generally include a conventional solenoid fill port through which pressurized air is directed to inflate the seal. Once the seal is inflated a fine non toxic aerosol is dispersed inside the shroud and on the outside of the protective mask. The TDA 99M creates a pressure differential between the interior and exterior of the protective mask i.e. it attempts to draw the aerosol through the protective mask using a vacuum within the protective mask area while simultaneously sampling the air inside the protective mask. If the air inside the protective mask is unacceptable an alarm sounds to indicate the protective mask is leaking. The protective mask once passing the overall leakage test is tested for problems associated with the drink train and outlet valve assembly. However the protective mask testers only provide adequate validation of the protective masks when the protective mask testers are properly calibrated. Generally these systems do not have external testing devices to verify the tester devices are working properly.

There is a need in the art for mechanisms to provide reliable and efficient calibration of protective mask testers. The present invention addresses these and other needs.

The present invention includes an orifice test calibration device for testing the functionality of a gas mask tester said calibration device having a semi rigid tubular channel with a first end effective for sealing a first head piece flow outlet of a protective mask tester and a second end effective for sealing a second head piece vacuum inlet of a protective mask tester a sealable opening within the tubular channel and an insertable orifice plug for insertion into the sealable opening wherein the orifice plug has a set opening diameter. The orifice test calibration device is inserted into the flow and vacuum ports on the head piece of the gas mask tester. With the presence of the detectable airborne particles in the exterior environment of the orifice test calibration device a vacuum is concurrently drawn within the orifice test calibration device and the air flow is monitored for the presence of the airborne particles.

The orifice test calibration device of the present invention is used for testing the functionality of protective mask testers which are used to test protective masks. The present invention functionally re routes air from the outlet of a head piece of the mask tester to the inlet of the head piece of the mask tester providing a measurement of airflow by means of an orifice device while maintaining a vacuum within the system.

As seen in and the present invention includes an orifice test calibration device used to test protective mask testers . The protective mask testers generally include a head piece also referred to as a test head or headform . The head piece is generally configured to hold a protective mask in place during testing. Typically the head piece has a polyurethane composition however it will be readily appreciated that the material of the head piece can be readily varied. While head piece typically accommodates a full face seal type protective mask other head piece configurations may be readily used to accommodate half face seal type or full neck seal type protective masks. Representative protective mask testers useful for calibration with the present invention include for example protective mask testers such as the M14 TDA 99M TDA 99B TDA 104 Q179 Q204 JSMLT mask leakage testers and other like testing equipment used to ensure the reliability and non leakage of protective masks such as gas masks. For example the TDA 99M Protective Mask Leakage Tester NSN 6665 01 450 3022 is manufactured by ATI Inc. and is a portable unit having a universal power supply and internal compressed air source. This device provides leak testing of specific components without requiring a user to wear the mask such as testing of overall mask leakage leakage isolation outlet valve drink tube flow drink tube valve leakage drink train leak and quantitative fit. Operation instructions for the mask testers are provided by the manufacturer in common instruction manuals such as the ATI Data Acquisition System 1 DAS1 Operator s Manual 1800109A published by Air Techniques International ATI a division of Hamilton Associates Inc. of Owings Mills Md. the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference. Representative protective masks that are tested on these protective mask testers include chemical and or biological masks that are required to completely partition the air residing on the interior and exterior sides of the protective mask such that only filtered air may enter the mask. Such protective masks may include for example the U.S. Army s M17 protective mask the M40 series protective mask the M42 series protective mask the M45 protective mask MCU2 P mask the Joint Service General Purpose Mask JSGPM and the like. These protective masks are generally found in use by the United States military.

Referring to the orifice test calibration device has a U shaped configuration made of a semi rigid material with a shorter end and a longer end . The U shaped configuration forms a semi rigid tubular channel . The shorter end of the semi rigid tubular channel provides a sealable end for insertion into a flow outlet port located on the head form of the protective mask tester . Similarly the longer end provides a sealable end for insertion into a vacuum port located on the head form of the protective mask tester . The two ends and are designed to effectively seal both the flow outlet port and vacuum inlet port on the top surface of the head piece on the protective mask tester . The orifice test calibration device is sized to extend between the two ports and flow and vacuum with give within the semi rigid tubular channel that allows it to flex across a lateral range of motion for a sealable fit within the ports of the protective mask tester such as from about 1 inch to about 3 inches. As seen in the orifice test calibration device may further include a bendable section of the semi rigid tubular channel that significantly increases the lateral flexibility of the orifice test calibration device . The bendable section also may be used to ensure conformity of the length of the channel with the distance between the flow and vacuum ports. Referring to the bendable section may be an integral part of the semi rigid tubular channel or may be incorporated onto the channel as a component part thereof. When the bendable section is added as a separate component piece sealing bands such as Oetiker hose clamps may be attached to the tubular channel and rubber stopper inserts described below to ensure an air tight fit onto the channel and to become a component thereof. The orifice test calibration device includes a sufficient length to conveniently extend the distance between flow port and vacuum port of a given head piece and a cross sectional diameter to effectively manipulate the orifice test calibration device during insertion and removal from the head form . This allows a single orifice test calibration device of the present invention to be useful in various head pieces for different sizes e.g. small medium and large and different makes of testers. Representative lengths of the orifice test calibration device include for example without limitation from about 5 inches to about 12 inches with more preferred lengths including from about 6 inches to about 8 inches. Additionally representative diameters of the orifice test calibration device include from about 0.5 inch to about 1.5 inch such as 0.75 inch with wall thickness appropriate for maintaining vacuum within the orifice test calibration device such as from about 0.02 inches to about 0.04 inches generally depending on the material used.

In one embodiment the orifice test calibration device has a clear transparent resilient composition that slightly bends along its length . Representative compositions of the orifice test calibration device include for example plastic and other plastic like polymer compositions such as Tygon tubing. Manufacture of the orifice test calibration device may include any appropriate manufacturing process for construction of a orifice test calibration device capable of achieving an air tight seal between the flow and vacuum ports of the head piece on a protective mask tester . Representative manufacturing methodologies for the present invention include compression or injection molding processes with such processes well known in the art for creation of transparent unitary forms of plastic compositions.

Rubber stopper inserts are preferably located at the first end and second end to ensure a reliable air tight fit of the orifice test calibration device with the fixed holes within the head piece that constitute the flow port and vacuum port of the protective mask tester . These rubber stopper inserts may be attached by any appropriate means to secure the rubber stopper inserts onto the first end and second end of the orifice test calibration device such as with the application of an epoxy or other similar adhesive material. The rubber stopper inserts are positioned around areas of reduced diameter of the first end and second end of the orifice test calibration device for effectively fitting typically by insertion into the flow and vacuum ports of a given test head . The semi rigid tubular channel of the orifice test calibration device preferably includes a longitudinally rigid composition i.e. along the length of the channel that provides additional rigidity for pressing the first end and second end into the flow port and vacuum port of the protective mask tester .

Within the length of the orifice test calibration device a sealable opening is formed within the tubular channel . This sealable opening provides a seat for locating an insertable orifice plug therein creating a barrier to stop simulant from inadvertently passing therethrough. The sealable opening includes a set opening diameter that accommodates insertion of a given orifice plug designed for a specific sized screening surface. The sealable opening may include any appropriate size or shape for application of an appropriately sized orifice plug thereto with preferred sizes ranging from about 0.25 inches or greater in circumference with more preferred circumferences ranging from about 0.25 inch to about 0.5 inch. The specified screening surface includes particle restriction sizes for restricting simulant e.g. aerosol etc. therethrough with restriction diameters within the sealable opening ranging across any appropriate size for air particle testing such as from less than about 20 microns to greater than 120 microns with preferred restriction diameters ranging from about 20 microns to about 120 microns and more preferably from about 30 microns to about 40 microns. Manufacture of the restriction diameters of the insertable orifice plug may be accomplished by any appropriate process for correct sizing of the inlet such as by laser drilling.

Preferably the sealable opening includes a cap or capping device that is used to retain and secure the insertable orifice plug . The cap device has an opening that permits the free flow of air to the inserted orifice plug therein. A blank orifice plug i.e. an orifice plug having no orifice therein may be inserted into the sealable opening and secured by the cap during non use of the orifice test calibration device . Most preferably the cap is threaded onto the sealable opening to provide a reliable air tight seal between the cap and sealable opening while allowing air flow through the insertable orifice plug . Additional features of the sealable opening may include a face sealing o ring component within the sealable opening and or latching devices and the like for further securing an airtight seal of the sealable opening . In one embodiment the o ring is permanently fixed within the orifice test calibration device . When present the o ring preferably seals the insertable orifice plug against the tubular channel in an air tight manner.

In use the orifice test calibration device of the present invention tests the functionality of a protective mask tester . The orifice test calibration device retains an orifice plug that rests firmly against the o ring and cap to create a controlled leakage chamber. The orifice test calibration device is fixed to a protective mask testing head piece with the orifice test calibration device providing a conduit between the flow port and vacuum port of the head piece sealing the conduit from outside air i.e. the orifice test calibration device provides an air tight juncture between the ports. The rubber stopper inserts located at the first end and second end of the orifice test calibration device are inserted into the flow port and vacuum port respectively of the head piece of the protective mask tester . A covering for containing a detectable airborne composition is typically placed over the mask tester and the orifice test calibration device to contain a detectable airborne composition within a containment area with such covering being a plastic or other like impermeable material. As such an operator generally restricts the environment adjacent to the head piece by placing a conventional containment shroud over the head piece . Once the shroud is in place the operator inserts an aerosol hose through an opening in the containment shroud. Preferred detectable airborne compositions include aerosols with the detectable airborne composition outside of the orifice test calibration device preferably maintained at about atmospheric pressure. Most preferably the test aerosol agent detectable airborne composition is polyalphaolefin PAO which has been approved for use by the U.S. Army Surgeon General the Department of the Energy and the Federal Food and Drug Administration. However it will be readily appreciated that if detection other than photometry is used e.g. condensate nuclei counting CNC the test agent may be varied. An aerosol generator is used by the operator to input a given aerosol into the shroud generally adjusted to a minimum concentration within the shroud. Once the orifice test calibration device is inserted into the mask tester and the shroud is in place with the aerosol concentration adjusted to a desired value a vacuum is drawn within and through the orifice test calibration device . Preferably the air flow within the tubular channel is filtered air that is maintained at a pressure of from about 5.5 inches HO to about 6.5 inches HO with other pressures possible as appropriate. The air flow within the orifice test calibration device is then monitored for the presence of any of the detectable airborne composition. When the aerosol residing in the shroud flows into the vacuum port containing a scattering chamber the aerosol particles scatter light emitted from a light source resulting in light striking a photomultiplier tube. This provides an indication of contamination entering the orifice test device . Using the blank orifice plug no opening substantially no aerosol should be detected e.g. leakage readings of from about 0.0000 to about 0.0002. Then the blank orifice plug is replaced by a laser drilled orifice plug having a specified internal restriction diameter. Once the orifice is in place another test is conducted. Based on previously determined data a set range for the simulant is expected to flow through the orifice. When the leakage rate falls within the set range the tester is functioning properly. When the leakage rate falls outside of the set range the tester is retested. When the tester continually registers test results outside of the set range the tester may be found to not be accurately counting the simulant passing through the orifice test calibration device . The protective mask testers that are adequately tested using the orifice test calibration device and shown to be functional provide reliable platforms for continued testing of protective masks.

A TDA 99M Protective Mask Tester is tested for proper functionality. An orifice test calibration device of the present invention is inserted in the flow port and vacuum port of the head piece and a shroud is placed over the inserted orifice test calibration device and the head piece . The orifice test calibration device has an inserted orifice plug having a blank orifice no opening . An aerosol is flowed into the shroud outside of the orifice test calibration device . The tubular channel is subjected to a vacuum of about 6.0 inches HO. Substantially no aerosol is detected by the TDA 99M Protective Mask Tester with leakage readings of from about 0.0000 to about 0.0002 showing that the orifice test calibration device is functioning. The blank orifice plug is replaced by a laser drilled orifice plug having an internal restriction diameter of 120 microns. Once the orifice plug is in place a second test is conducted. Based on previously determined data a set range for the simulant is expected to flow through the orifice. When the leakage rate falls within the set range the tester is functioning properly. When the leakage rate falls outside of the set range the tester is retested. When the tester continually registers test results outside of the set range the tester is found to not be accurately counting the simulant passing through the orifice test calibration device and not properly calibrated.

The foregoing summary description and examples of the present invention are not intended to be limiting but are only exemplary of the inventive features which are defined in the claims. Alternative materials and configurations as those described herein for the present invention may be used.

