---

title: Microelectromechanical systems ignition safety device
abstract: The present disclosure provides a microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) igniter which is an ignition safety device (ISD) in a small, low-cost, low-power, and highly reliable design. The MEMS igniter provides both out-of-line safety and an ignition mechanism for a rocket motor. The igniter is initially held in a safe, out-of-line position with respect to a propellant. Upon receiving appropriate arm and fire commands and sensing the correct environment, MEMS mechanisms move an ignition component into alignment and the device can function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07971532&OS=07971532&RS=07971532
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07971532
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081215
---
The present invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to microelectromechanical systems MEMS . More particularly the present invention provides systems and methods for a MEMS ignition safety device ISD which provides both out of line safety and an ignition mechanism for a rocket motor a propellant operated device or a pyrotechnic operated device in a small low cost low power and highly reliable and safe design.

Ignition safety devices ISDs prevent an unintended functioning of a rocket motor missile motor or other energetic device i.e. one that utilizes a propellant or pyrotechnic output through an interruption of a pyrotechnic train an interruption of a firing energy train or the control of the energy required to arm the ISD and function the initiator. MIL STD 1901A June 2002 is an exemplary Design Criteria Standard for a Munition Rocket and Missile Motor Ignition System Design. This standard requires that a rocket motor initiator be either out of line or require greater than 500 Volts to initiate the rocket motor. Most conventional systems are either not compliant with these requirements are inconveniently large expensive and or complex. Conventional systems which are compliant with MIL STD 1901A requirements are typically made with conventional metal parts assemblies produced by conventional precision machining and attachment.

By contrast MEMS are miniaturized mass produced devices i.e. micrometer dimensions that may include actuators sensors and other mechanical structures. MEMS are typically fabricated by bulk etching a silicon substrate or depositing layers of polysilicon oxides metals and the like atop a silicon substrate. Typical MEMS actuation mechanisms include electrostatic magnetic and thermal. A MEMS thermal actuator is a microelectromechanical device that typically generates motion by thermal expansion amplification. A small amount of thermal expansion of one part of the device translates to a large amount of deflection of the overall device. MEMS thermal actuators are typically fabricated from doped single crystal silicon or polysilicon as a complex compliant member.

In various exemplary embodiments the present invention provides a MEMS igniter which is an ignition safety device ISD in a small low cost low power and highly reliable and safe design. The MEMS igniter is compliant with the design requirements of MIL STD 1901A June 2002. The MEMS igniter provides both out of line safety and an ignition mechanism for a rocket motor other type of propellant operated or a pyrotechnic operated device. The igniter is initially held in a safe out of line position with respect to a propellant or other acceptor material such as a pyrotechnic booster. The pyrotechnic booster functions to transfer and or amplify the ignition output of an upstream component to a downstream component or components. Upon receiving appropriate arm and fire commands and sensing the correct environment silicon MEMS mechanisms move an igniter component into physical alignment with the acceptor thus allowing the device to function.

In an exemplary aspect of the present invention an ignition safety device includes a slider including an igniter component an arming motor connected to the slider one or more locks and a pyrotechnic wherein the one or more locks are configured to engage the slider and the arming motor is configured to move the slider to position the igniter component in line with the pyrotechnic acceptor when the one or more locks are disengaged from the slider. The ignition safety device can include a microelectromechanical systems based device including the slider the arming motor and the one or more locks. Optionally the arming motor includes a ratcheting microelectromechanical systems actuator and wherein one or more locks are each disengaged through a microelectromechanical systems actuator. The ratcheting microelectromechanical systems actuator and the microelectromechanical systems actuator each can include a thermal actuator. The igniter component includes a silicon bridge wherein the silicon bridge is configured to produce a hot plasma plume in response to a pulsed high current density electrical current which exceeds the burst current density for the bridge configuration. Optionally the pyrotechnic acceptor includes boron potassium nitrate B KNO3 or any energetic qualified under MIL STD 1901A which has been determined to be equivalently or less sensitive to inadvertent initiation stimuli than B KNO3 and wherein the B KNO3 is promptly ignited by the hot plasma by microconvective heat transfer radiation and hot particles and gases. The ignition safety device can thus be compliant with the requirements of MIL STD 1901A.

In another exemplary aspect of the present invention a microelectromechanical systems based ignition safety device includes an igniter component located on a head portion of a slider a member connected to the head portion a ratcheting actuator connected to the member a first lock configured to engage the head portion a first actuator connected to the first lock and a pyrotechnic acceptor wherein the igniter component is out of line with the pyrotechnic acceptor with the first lock engaged to the head portion in a unarmed configuration and wherein the igniter component is in line with the pyrotechnic acceptor with the first lock disengaged from the head portion in an armed configuration. Transformation to the armed configuration from the unarmed configuration includes disengaging the first lock and moving the member and head portion with the ratcheting actuator. The microelectromechanical systems based ignition safety device may further include a second lock configured to engage the head portion a second actuator connected to the second lock and a first latch connected to the second actuator. Optionally the microelectromechanical systems based ignition safety device further includes a third lock configured to engage the member and a third actuator connected to the third lock. The pyrotechnic acceptor could consist of a mixture of boron and potassium nitrate wherein the B KNO3 ignites in response to the hot plasma or other effects generated by the igniter component which in this case is a doped polysilicon bridge commonly known as an SCB semiconductor bridge . Optionally the microelectromechanical systems based ignition safety device is compliant to MIL STD 1901A.

In yet another exemplary aspect of the present invention a method for providing ignition safety includes maintaining a slider with an igniter component in an out of line locked position unlocking the slider moving the slider to position the igniter component in line with a pyrotechnic acceptor and energizing the igniter component to ignite the pyrotechnic. The method is implemented in a microelectromechanical systems based device. The locked position may be maintained with one or more locks at least one lock . Optionally the locks include thermal actuators and the slider is moved with a thermal actuator. Ignition of the igniter component is accomplished by applying a pulsed electrical current to the igniter component s bridge in order to form a hot plasma plume.

In various exemplary embodiments the present invention provides a MEMS igniter which is an ignition safety device ISD in a small low cost low power and highly reliable and safe design. The MEMS igniter is compliant with the design requirements of MIL STD 1901A June 2002 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. The MEMS igniter provides both out of line safety and an ignition mechanism for a rocket motor other type of propellant operated or a pyrotechnic operated device. The igniter is initially held in a safe out of line position with respect to a propellant or other acceptor material such as a pyrotechnic booster. The pyrotechnic booster functions to transfer and or amplify the ignition output of an upstream component to a downstream component or components. Upon receiving appropriate arm and fire commands and sensing the correct environment MEMS mechanisms such as in an exemplary embodiment a silicon MEMS mechanisms move an igniter component into physical alignment with the acceptor thus allowing the device to function.

Referring to a diagram illustrates functional operation of a MEMS igniter according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The MEMS igniter includes an arming motor a slider a lock a silicon bridge and a pyrotechnic acceptor . The lock may be removed through an actuator not shown such as for example a MEMS thermal actuator. Additionally the MEMS igniter may include multiple locks . The arming motor is configured to move the silicon bridge along the slider in line with the pyrotechnic acceptor . For example the arming motor may include an actuator. An electric current is applied to the silicon bridge to initiate the pyrotechnic acceptor . The pyrotechnic acceptor may include for example boron potassium nitrate B KNO or any energetic qualified under MIL STD 1901A which has been determined to be equivalently or less sensitive to inadvertent initiation stimuli than B KNO3.

The MEMS igniter utilizes MEMS processes to form the doped polysilicon bridge similar to a semiconductor bridge SCB which enable transformation of the bridge via a high current electrical discharge into high temperature plasma capable of igniting energetic materials even relatively insensitive ones. Alternatively a MEMS process could be used to form another type of bridge for the silicon bridge which functions as an SJI bridge semiconductor junction igniter where an electrical junction is formed that is functionally equivalent to two back to back zener diodes. Upon energizing this bridge at a voltage which exceeds the reverse breakdown threshold of the zener diode thus formed the bridge is destroyed catastrophically and erupts in a hot plasma plume similar to that of the SCB bridge configuration. A third possibility for the bridge configuration could be the use of a thin deposit of single layer or multiple layer metallic and non metallic films on a silicon substrate again produced by MEMS compatible processes usually vapor deposition or sputtering . These films when heated rapidly by a fast rising current pulse heat ohmically melt and may proceed to a gas or plasma phase which serves to ignite an energetic acceptor material. Multiple layer films may be produced in which a chemical reaction commences during the melt phase and enhance or amplify the thermochemical output provided by the bridge . Such reactive multi layer films may also be placed atop an SCB or SJI type bridge in order to amplify its resultant thermal output thus increasing the overall reliability of the ignition train.

The MEMS igniter is realized utilizing MEMS device technology and fabrication techniques. Advantageously the MEMS igniter with the bridge initiator i.e. the silicon bridge is an igniter component provides a reduced size reduced costs and increased safety and reliability in an ignition safety device. The MEMS igniter can be batch fabricated without requiring micro device assembly. Additionally the MEMS igniter may include various forms of MEMS actuation devices such as thermal actuators chevron bent beam bi morph etc. magnetic actuators and the like. For example thermal actuators can be utilized to provide the arming motor and the lock removal responsive to proper arming commands. MEMS manufacturing processes can produce hundreds of MEMS igniters simultaneously at low cost and high reliability. The small size of the MEMS igniter allows for minimal sacrifice of propellant pyrotechnic or warhead volume and reduced requirements for energetics in the initiating section of the system.

The MEMS igniter may utilize DRIE deep reactive ion etched ratchets gears and locks for safety features. These ratchets gears and locks can move the active component i.e. the silicon bridge from a safe out of line position to an in line armed position. Instead of a primary explosive the MEMS igniter uses B KNO various suitable pyrotechnic formulations eutectic metal mixtures or an aluminothermic booster to transfer energy from the initiator device i.e. the silicon bridge to the external propellant or pyrotechnic acceptor charge.

Referring to a MEMS based ignition safety device chip is illustrated according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The MEMS based ignition safety device may be constructed on a silicon substrate or the like and includes a ratcheting actuator multiple locks and an ignition component . The MEMS based ignition safety device chip includes a slider surrounded on the chip by the actuator and the multiple locks . The slider includes a member portion connected to the ratcheting actuator and a head portion which is connected to the member and which includes the ignition component . In an exemplary embodiment the slider has a substantially fork shaped configuration.

The multiple locks are configured to hold the slider in place when the MEMS based ignition safety device chip is unarmed. For example the lock is inserted into a portion of the member and the locks are inserted into portions of the head portion . In the ignition component on the head portion is illustrated in an electrically isolated position from the rest of the MEMS based ignition safety device chip . The ignition component is a layer of doped silicon or the like configured as an SCB or SJI as described previously which is converted into hot plasma responsive to an applied electrical current and when in line with a propellant provides an ignition.

The ratcheting actuator includes anchors connected to a yoke through beams respectively. The yoke is connected to the member . The anchors include contacts for receiving an electrical current. Responsive to an applied electrical current the beams actuate forcing the yoke and the member forward i.e. the ratcheting actuator is a thermal actuator in this exemplary embodiment.

The lock is connected to a yoke of a thermal actuator . The yoke is connected to anchors through beams respectively. The anchors include contacts for receiving an electrical current and the thermal actuator is actuated responsive to the electrical current through movement of the yoke based on heating of the beams . The movement of the yoke corresponds to movement of the lock to disengage the lock from the head portion .

The lock also is connected to a yoke of a thermal actuator . The yoke is connected to anchors through beams respectively. The anchors include contacts for receiving an electrical current and the thermal actuator is actuated responsive to the electrical current through movement of the yoke based on heating of the beams . The movement of the yoke corresponds to movement of the lock to disengage the lock from the head portion .

Additionally the lock is connected to latch device through a beam connected to the yoke . The latch device provides additional safety requiring actuation of the latch device in addition to the lock . The latch device includes a notch which is captured by latches . The latches are configured to release the notch responsive to an electrical current applied to an anchor . The latch device also includes multiple springs which are configured to provide force on the latch device for arming the lock .

The lock is controlled by a latch device including a notch which is captured by latches . The latches are actuated responsive to an electrical current applied to an anchor and the latch device is connected to multiple springs to provide a force of the latch device for arming the lock .

The MEMS based ignition safety device chip becomes armed responsive to disengaging each of the locks and moving the ignition component in line with a pyrotechnic charge through the ratcheting actuator . Once in line a specifically shaped pulse of current at a specific voltage and with a specific minimal rise time is then transferred through the ignition component converting its doped silicon layer through ohmic heating in the case of an SCB or in the case of the SJI through catastrophic bridge breakdown and destruction into hot plasma. The plasma ignites the propellant charge in close proximity to the ignition component armed position. The pyrotechnic charge such as B KNOor any energetic qualified under MIL STD 1901A which has been determined to be equivalently or less sensitive to inadvertent initiation stimuli than B KNO may be fabricated apart from the MEMS based ignition safety device chip and assembled in the final package. This charge may be pressed or deposited by ink jet printing as a slurry into the MEMS based ignition safety device chip i.e. plasma ejected downwards or be part of the overall packaging i.e. plasma ejected upwards from the top surface of the overall MEMS based ignition safety device chip .

The various anchors in include contacts that may extend through wires or the like off of the MEMS based ignition safety device chip . This configuration enables current to be applied to the MEMS based ignition safety device chip for arming and firing the MEMS based ignition safety device chip . Several approaches may be used but they all have extended wires that contact different portions of the MEMS based ignition safety device chip and form the electrical path. In an inverted design the wires could be moved into contact with a stationary isolated ignition component structure by similar actuation as the shown in the MEMS based ignition safety device chip .

In an exemplary embodiment the chip dimensions for the MEMS based ignition safety device chip are 9 millimeters by 9 millimeters but other sizes can be realized with for instance fewer locks and or shorter out of line to in line travel of components . The orientation of the pyrotechnic charge may be centered or off to one side. The locks ignition component featured above rely on launch forces for release. Command locks released by a signal from the external electronics could be used instead. Also in final assembly a removable pin of several millimeters diameter could be inserted into an etched hole in the MEMS based ignition safety device chip not shown to prevent its travel. The pin could be positioned by an aligned opening in a sealing cap layer. This cap layer may be necessary in all cases to prevent dust from achieving the result of a deliberately inserted pin.

Advantageously the MEMS based ignition safety device chip provides an out of line igniter design. When the locks are engaged and the ignition component is out of line the MEMS based ignition safety device chip has the ability to withstand more than 500 volts applied to any two leads. If the MEMS based ignition safety device chip uses pyrotechnic material for the pyrotechnic charge that complies with MIL STD 1901A the MEMS based ignition safety device chip provides a compliant design.

This low cost highly reliable approach uses proven MEMS manufacturing with thin film initiation and physically separated electrical pathways to satisfy these requirements. The ignition component element cannot be functioned until it is in the armed position and physically connected to the firing electrical pathway. Until it is moved by the actuator fully into the armed position it is electrically and physically isolated. Even if it were somehow functioned prior to arming the out of line position would prevent transfer to the pyrotechnic charge and simply dud the MEMS based ignition safety device chip .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention can include various types of actuators sliders electrical contacts materials and packaging schemes each of which is contemplated by the present invention. The actuators may be driven by thermal piezoelectrical electrostatic etc. mechanisms. Contacting electrical wires can be pointed wall to wall extended beams etc. In addition to silicon the present invention could be constructed with plastic glass metal with appropriate insulating materials ceramics etc.

The ignition component design may be tailored for energy requirements or output levels size by changing the shape and area of the metal to be turned to plasma. This metallic layer can be gold aluminum copper silver etc. There could also be several layers of material. In some cases the metal could be replaced by semiconducting material or any other material that can be converted to plasma. The pyrotechnic charge could be any other approved energetic including monomolecular explosives.

The sealing cap may be formed from various materials including metal glass ceramic etc. The packaging could be molded plastic high temperature co fired ceramic HTCC low temperature co fired ceramic LTCC metal glass etc. Electrical connections can be strip line wire bonded bump bonded soldered etc. As noted above the safety locks can be removed by physical means integrated as part of the package electrically commanded etc. Their design is dependent upon the criteria for a particular application.

Referring to a flowchart illustrates an exemplary operation of a MEMS based ignition safety device according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. As described herein the present invention provides a MEMS based ignition safety device which is maintained in an out of line configuration when unarmed. This status may be accomplished through MEMS based multiple locks. The one or more locks maintain a slider with an ignition component in an out of line position when the device is unarmed step .

Upon receiving the appropriate commands and sensing the appropriate conditions one or more actuators remove the locks step . An arming motor moves the slider to position the ignition component on the slider in line with a pyrotechnic step . Finally a current is applied to the slide to ignite the pyrotechnic step . For example the ignition can include the various mechanisms described herein.

The present invention may be utilized in a variety of applications in addition to acting as an ignition safety device ISD for a rocket or missile motor. For example the present invention could be used as a smart airbag initiator in automobiles as an ISD for large flares or fireworks for avalanche control shells and the like. The present invention is designed with reduce size weight and cost compared to conventional solutions. The MEMS based manufacturing enables a simple fabrication sequence for increased reliability. Also the present invention may utilize standard MEMS based processes avoiding exotic chemicals or processes. By virtue of its small size the quantities of sensitive or toxic energetic materials of all types are minimized.

Although the present invention has been illustrated and described herein with reference to exemplary embodiments and specific examples thereof it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments and examples may perform similar functions and or achieve like results. All such equivalent embodiments and examples are within the spirit and scope of the present invention and are intended to be covered by the following claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

