---

title: Pack avatar for shared inventory in a virtual universe
abstract: Generally speaking, systems, methods and media for providing a pack avatar for sharing inventory in a virtual universe are disclosed. Embodiments of a method may include receiving a request to create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items in a virtual universe and creating a pack avatar based on the received requests. Embodiments may include rendering the pack avatar in the virtual universe. Embodiments may also include, in response to receiving a request from a virtual universe user to borrow one or more shared inventory items carried by the pack avatar, accessing the one or more requested shared inventory items and rendering the one or more requested shared inventory items in the virtual universe. Further embodiments may include associating the pack avatar with a user and moving the pack avatar within the virtual universe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08018462&OS=08018462&RS=08018462
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08018462
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080211
---
The present invention is in the field of data processing systems and in particular to systems methods and media for providing a pack avatar for sharing inventory in a virtual universe.

Computer systems are well known in the art and have attained widespread use for providing computer power to many segments of today s modern society. As advances in semiconductor processing and computer architecture continue to push the performance of computer hardware higher more sophisticated computer software has evolved to take advantage of the higher performance of the hardware resulting in computer systems that continue to increase in complexity and power. Computer systems have thus evolved into extremely sophisticated devices that may be found in many different settings. Computer systems are often connected to the Internet or other broad based network in order to communicate with other computer systems access information or other resources or perform various tasks associated with business personal banking electronic commerce transactions or other endeavors.

One application for computer systems that is increasing in importance is for use in accessing virtual universes VUs which are also known as virtual worlds and virtual world environments VWEs . A VU represents a real or imaginary place using graphics images video auditory data or other sensory data to define a representation on a computer system to one or more users. The hardware and software that together create a VU provide the ability for users to interact with the VU in various ways. VUs commonly allow for multiple users to simultaneously interact with the VU allowing the users to thus interact with each other within the VU and form a community. Current VUs such as Second Life by Linden Lab or There by Makena Technologies provide an interactive three dimensional 3D online digital world with hundreds of thousands of users accessing the world via the Internet. In these graphical VUs users typically are represented by an avatar within the online world and the users may command their avatar to move within the VU communicate with other users via their avatars etc. and thus interact with the virtual world. VUs typically allow users using a client program on their computer system to use various tools to view navigate and modify the virtual world as well as participate in its virtual economy.

VU users typically have an inventory of items that they own and these inventory items may be bought sold traded etc. during operation of the VU. Items in a typical inventory may include clothing virtual pets vehicles electronic media e.g. music files or other possessions. Each inventory item may represent a piece of code or other data which may be rendered in some fashion to the user during a session in the VU. Clothing inventory for example may be rendered as clothing for the user s avatar while a virtual dog in another example may render as an automated avatar that follows the user s avatar within the VU. The contents of a user s inventory are typically displayed in a hierarchical manner similar to an operating system s display of folders subfolders and files within a file system.

The current use of inventories within a VU is limited. Individuals must typically manage their own inventories manually adding or deleting inventory items from their inventory. Also since each inventory item often has software code necessary to render it the stored code results in significant storage and maintenance requirements within the VU as each instance of code is stored separately. The cost of purchasing or otherwise acquiring many inventory items is also sometimes prohibitive for many users. The lack of sharing may thus exacerbate the storage problems associated with inventory items as the code must be stored for each individual user. Managing inventories has thus become a major problem in VU space as such inventories are increasingly taken up by functional software documents and other such items that today reside on local drives. Encouraging users to purchase or borrow shared inventory may thus provide performance benefits by reducing required storage space as well as by providing revenue opportunities or other benefits for VU operators and content providers.

The problems identified above are in large part addressed by systems methods and media for providing a pack avatar for sharing inventory in a virtual universe. A method for managing shared inventory in a virtual universe is disclosed. Embodiments of a method may include receiving a request to create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items in a virtual universe and creating a pack avatar based on the received requests. Embodiments may include rendering the pack avatar in the virtual universe. Embodiments may also include in response to receiving a request from a virtual universe user to borrow one or more shared inventory items carried by the pack avatar accessing the one or more requested shared inventory items and rendering the one or more requested shared inventory items in the virtual universe. Further embodiments may include associating the pack avatar with a user and moving the pack avatar within the virtual universe.

Another embodiment provides a computer program product comprising a computer useable medium having a computer readable program wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to perform a series of operations for providing a pack avatar for sharing inventory in a virtual universe. The series of operations generally includes receiving a request to create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items in a virtual universe and creating a pack avatar based on the received requests. Embodiments may include rendering the pack avatar in the virtual universe. Embodiments may also include a series of operations for in response to receiving a request from a virtual universe user to borrow one or more shared inventory items carried by the pack avatar accessing the one or more requested shared inventory items and rendering the one or more requested shared inventory items in the virtual universe. Further embodiments may include a series of operations for associating the pack avatar with a user and moving the pack avatar within the virtual universe.

A further embodiment provides a data processing system having a machine accessible medium storing a plurality of program modules. Embodiments may include a user interface module to receive requests from users of a virtual universe to borrow a shared inventory item carried by a pack avatar. Embodiments may also include a pack avatar operation module to create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items and to render the pack avatar in the virtual universe. Embodiments may also include a pack avatar movement module to move the created pack avatar within the virtual universe and in a pack inventory module to facilitate access of shared inventory items stored in a pack inventory database. Embodiments may also include where the pack inventory module accesses a shared inventory item requested by a user and renders the requested shared inventory item in the virtual universe.

The following is a detailed description of example embodiments of the invention depicted in the accompanying drawings. The example embodiments are in such detail as to clearly communicate the invention. However the amount of detail offered is not intended to limit the anticipated variations of embodiments on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. The descriptions below are designed to make such embodiments obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

Generally speaking systems methods and media for providing a pack avatar for sharing inventory in a virtual universe are disclosed. Embodiments of a method may include receiving a request to create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items in a virtual universe and creating a pack avatar based on the received requests. Embodiments may include rendering the pack avatar in the virtual universe. Embodiments may also include in response to receiving a request from a virtual universe user to borrow one or more shared inventory items carried by the pack avatar accessing the one or more requested shared inventory items and rendering the one or more requested shared inventory items in the virtual universe. Further embodiments may include associating the pack avatar with a user and moving the pack avatar within the virtual universe.

The system and methodology of the depicted embodiments provide for effective and efficient management of a pack avatar for carrying shared inventory in a virtual universe. The disclosed pack avatar may maintain shared inventory items for a group of users in a virtual universe by carrying the items and facilitating borrowing or other access of the items by users. In some embodiments the pack avatar may be maintained in close proximity to the users so that it is easily accessible whenever they desire to borrow a shared inventory item. A user desiring to borrow a shared inventory item may approach the pack avatar and request the item using any virtual universe methodology to accomplish it. Pack avatars may also be configured to wander around an environment such as a virtual state fair or virtual concert thus providing large numbers of users the ability to borrow inventory items from the pack avatar. By providing for borrowing of items the pack avatar may provide an enhanced user experience and may also provide opportunities for generating revenue for content providers virtual universe operators or others. The resources required to store and maintain various inventory items may also be reduced as the disclosed pack avatar system helps prevent wasteful duplicative storage of shared inventory items as the shared inventory items need not be stored in a unique instance for each user sharing the item and can instead be efficiently stored in one location. Borrowing terms and conditions may also be imposed such as by putting time limits on usage requiring payment of a fee limiting how the borrowing user may utilize the item or other restrictions.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention may be part of a specific application component program module object or sequence of instructions. The computer program of the present invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by the native computer into a machine readable format and hence executable instructions. Also programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices. In addition various programs described herein may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

While specific embodiments will be described below with reference to particular configurations of hardware and or software those of skill in the art will realize that embodiments of the present invention may advantageously be implemented with other substantially equivalent hardware software systems manual operations or any combination of any or all of these. The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Moreover embodiments of the invention may also be implemented via parallel processing using a parallel computing architecture such as one using multiple discrete systems e.g. plurality of computers etc. or an internal multiprocessing architecture e.g. a single system with parallel processing capabilities .

Aspects of embodiments of the invention described herein may be stored or distributed on computer readable medium as well as distributed electronically over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks. Data structures and transmission of data including wireless transmission particular to aspects of the invention are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer readable tangible storage medium or tangible device providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable tangible storage medium or tangible device can be any apparatus that can contain store or communicate the program code for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The tangible storage medium or tangible device may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable tangible storage medium or tangible device include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Each software program described herein may be operated on any type of data processing system such as a personal computer server etc. A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code may include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements may include local memory employed during execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. may be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices though intervening private or public networks including wireless networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Turning now to the drawings depicts a virtual pack avatar system with a virtual universe VU simulator one or more client computer systems and a pack avatar manager according to some embodiments. In the depicted embodiment the virtual pack avatar system includes a virtual universe simulator in communication with a plurality of client computer systems via network . The virtual universe simulator and client computer systems may also be in communication with a pack avatar manager via network . Pack inventory i.e. shareable inventory items to be used with a pack avatar may be stored in a variety of possible inventory sources including a universe database a pack inventory database as part of a client computer system or other location. As will be described in more detail subsequently a virtual universe simulator may manage a virtual universe VU by interacting with a variety of users of client computer systems and the pack avatar manager may facilitate providing a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items that can be borrowed by users of the client computer systems .

Inventory items may be any item that may be associated with a user in a virtual universe. Inventory items may each be comprised of one or more files be part of a larger database or be stored in any other fashion. In some embodiments an inventory item may be a piece of software code that is renderable in a virtual universe. In other embodiments inventory items may be represented as non executable data that may be used by the VU to render the inventory item for the user when needed. Non limiting examples of inventory items include graphics files sound files animations electronic documents video files avatar clothing or accessories avatar body parts avatar tools or vehicles or other objects avatar gestures automated avatars calling cards landmarks such as bookmarked locations or other geographical information items in a lost and found folder note cards photos and photo albums scripts e.g. macros to perform actions textures deleted items or any other type of item. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that inventory items may include executable code non executable data or any other type of information and may also represent any type of item within a VU.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that carrying of a shared inventory item by an avatar may be accomplished in a wide variety of ways that encompass any means of associating an inventory item with an avatar. When a pack avatar carries an item the item may be visually depicted or the item may simply be associated with the pack avatar. The pack avatar may have the form of an animal or human in some embodiments and in these embodiments a visual depiction of the shared inventory item being carried by the avatar such as in a pack or attached to the avatar s body may be used. In these embodiments a user may select the avatar to receive an indication of any items associated with the pack avatar.

Virtual universe simulator may be implemented on one or more servers or other computer systems such as those described in relation to adapted to implement all or part of a virtual universe. The virtual universe simulator may be implemented for example on one or more application servers such as International Business Machine s IBM s WebSphere Application Server WAS that may serve as middleware to set up operate and integrate e business applications across multiple computing platforms using Web technologies. The virtual universe simulator may provide a virtual universe to users by accessing stored information from a database and creating and operating the virtual universe based on the stored information. To accomplish this the virtual universe simulator may render the virtual universe including a user s inventory items on the client computer system so that the user can view or otherwise experience the virtual universe. An example virtual universe simulator may include massively multiplayer online games such as the Second Life virtual world from Linden Lab or There by Makena Technologies.

A virtual universe simulator may also have a universe database to store a variety of files used to create maintain and operate a virtual universe collectively environment information such as graphics files e.g. buildings avatars landscapes items etc. sound files e.g. environmental sounds spoken words etc. or text files e.g. configuration information descriptive information for objects user information etc. . The universe database may also store shared inventory items and or information relating to shared inventory items such as item metadata for use by the pack avatar manager . Shared inventory items much like traditional inventory items may be rendered within a virtual universe. The universe database may be stored on any type or combination of storage devices including volatile or non volatile storage such as hard drives storage area networks memory fixed or removable storage or other storage devices.

Users may utilize a client computer system according to the present embodiments to access the virtual universe simulator and thus the virtual universe via network . Client computer system may be a personal computer system or other computer system adapted to execute computer programs such as a personal computer workstation server notebook or laptop computer desktop computer personal digital assistant PDA mobile phone wireless device or set top box such as described in relation to . A user of the client computer system may utilize a VU interface to interact with the VU operated by the virtual world simulator . VU interface may be dedicated client software provided by the VU operator in some embodiments or it may alternatively be existing general software such as a browser.

Network may be any type of data communications channel or combination of channels such as the Internet an intranet a LAN a WAN an Ethernet network a wireless network telephone network a proprietary network or a broadband cable network. In one example the Internet may serve as network and the client computer systems the pack avatar manager and the virtual universe simulator may communicate via the Internet using known protocols. Those skilled in the art will recognize however that the invention described herein may be implemented utilizing any type or combination of data communications channel s without departure from the scope and spirit of the invention.

The pack avatar manager as will be described in more detail in relation to may provide for a pack avatar to carry shared inventory items within a VU for borrowing or other use by users of the VU. The pack avatar manager may create and render an avatar that carries a plurality of shared inventory items and that moves about a virtual universe. In some embodiments the pack avatar may move such that it stays near one or more associated users so that those users may easily access the pack avatar and also as a reminder that it exists . When a user requests borrowing an item in the shared inventory items carried by the pack avatar the pack avatar manager may process such a request by accessing the requested inventory items and then rendering the shared inventory item in the VU for the requesting user. The pack avatar manager may access the shared inventory item from a local or remote inventory source such as the pack inventory database the universe database a client computer system or other location. In this fashion the code or other data necessary to reader a shared inventory item need only be stored in one location potentially providing for efficiencies in storage requirements.

The pack avatar manager may be operated by a virtual universe simulation owner a content owner who uses the pack avatar to distribute content or any other entity. The pack avatar manager may be implemented as an Application Programming Interface API to facilitate access to and from any virtual universe simulator which may be particularly useful for content providers who wish to provide pack avatars to multiple VUs. Once a pack avatar API is established a virtual universe simulator that wishes to add pack avatar capability can ensure compatibility and operability via use of the API.

The optional pack inventory database may store shared inventory items and or information relating to shared inventory items such as item metadata for use by the pack avatar manager . The pack inventory database may be stored on any type or combination of storage devices including volatile or non volatile storage such as hard drives storage area networks memory fixed or removable storage or other storage devices. The pack inventory database may be wholly or partially a separate database from the universe database or it may alternatively be integrated into the universe database .

The pack avatar manager may use any methodology to implement sharing of inventory items. In some embodiments a virtual inventory manager not shown may be implemented to manage shared inventory items by facilitating the copying of a file from an inventory source to the virtual universe simulator when the shared inventory item is requested. In these embodiments the virtual inventory manager may either be a separate program or integrated with the pack avatar manager . The shared inventory hems may be represented as pointers or references to the shared inventory item that is stored at a remote inventory source. The virtual inventory manager may be considered an abstraction layer between traditional means of connecting data among servers and a virtual universe simulator specific graphical user interface GUI . The means of connecting data among servers may include network file system NFS applications structured query language SQL file transfer protocol ftp a services oriented architecture SOA request or other methodologies. A particular shared inventory item may be stored at any inventory source within the virtual pack avatar system including on a pack inventory database or a universe database . The virtual inventory manager may thus access the particular shared inventory item from its original location and provide it to a pack avatar manager and or virtual universe simulator so that a user may borrow the shared inventory item from a pack avatar regardless of the original location of the shared inventory item.

Various non limiting examples may serve to further illustrate the disclosed virtual pack avatar system . In one example a virtual amusement park may provide pack avatars to customers perhaps for a fee that follow particular customers around as they enjoy the virtual amusement park. The shared inventory items for the pack avatar may be items to purchase e.g. souvenirs food or drink etc. items to borrow for free e.g. water park map park rules etc. items to lease for a limited period e.g. umbrella in case of rain tarp for a picnic etc. . In other embodiments pack avatars may walk around freely in the park and provide these services to any customers that are near. In another example a vendor at a state fair may have a remote controlled pack avatar that offers goods or sale items hanging off of the pack avatar so that users can approach the pack avatar and purchase desired items for use while they are at the fair. As will be described in more detail the pack avatar may be rendered in any fashion and may in some embodiments be visually evocative of a pack animal such as a donkey mule horse elephant or other animal so that users of the VU will recognize the purpose of the pack avatar.

In some embodiments users may also employ multiple pack avatars to conveniently segregate different classes of items. For example one pack avatar may be used to carry items related to a user s work while another may be used to carry items related to home life and recreation. Pack avatars may also carry monetary items such as money. Thus the use of multiple pack avatars may create a convenient means for separating finding and accessing different kinds of items. Additionally advertisers may also supply pack avatars that carry items related to a particular product or service such as promotional items demos or coupons.

In the depicted embodiment the computer system includes a processor storage memory a user interface adapter and a display adapter connected to a bus or other interconnect. The bus facilitates communication between the processor and other components of the computer system as well as communication between components. Processor may include one or more system central processing units CPUs or processors to execute instructions such as an IBM PowerPC processor an Intel Pentium processor an Advanced Micro Devices Inc. processor or any other suitable processor. The processor may utilize storage which may be non volatile storage such as one or more hard drives tape drives diskette drives CD ROM drive DVD ROM drive or the like. The processor may also be connected to memory via bus such as via a memory controller hub MCH . System memory may include volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or double data rate DDR synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM . In the disclosed systems for example a processor may execute instructions to perform functions of the pack avatar manager such as by accessing and passing shared inventory items to a virtual world simulator in response to a user requesting to borrow an item from the pack avatar and may temporarily or permanently store information during its calculations or results after calculations in storage or memory . All or part of the virtual inventory manager for example may be stored in memory during execution of its routines. Similarly processor may execute instructions for the VU interface when computer system is used for a client computer system .

The user interface adapter may connect the processor with user interface devices such as a mouse or keyboard . The user interface adapter may also connect with other types of user input devices such as touch pads touch sensitive screens electronic pens microphones etc. A user of a client computer system attempting access to a shared inventory item carried by a pack avatar for example may utilize the keyboard and mouse to interact with their computer system to command their own avatar to approach the pack avatar and ask to borrow or purchase an item. The bus may also connect the processor to a display such as an LCD display or CRT monitor via the display adapter .

The user interface module may facilitate communication to and from a user such as transmitting and receiving information associated with requesting a shared item to borrow disclosing terms and conditions of borrowing or handling payment for an item. For example a user may request and the user interface module may receive to borrow a shared inventory item and also provide payment information e.g. credit card information and the user interface module may similarly pass information regarding terms and conditions of the borrowing to the user on their client computer system . The user interface module may receive requests from users of a virtual universe to borrow a shared inventory item carried by a pack avatar. The pack inventory interface module may facilitate communication to and from the pack inventory database or any other database such as the universe database . The pack inventory module may for example facilitate access of shared inventory items stored in a pack inventory database. Similarly the VU simulator interface module may facilitate communication to and from virtual universe simulators such as by receiving notification of user sessions being established and requests for stored shared inventory items and by transmitting shared inventory items or metadata to a virtual universe simulator . The user interface module may optionally be part of the VU simulator interface module in the event that communications with users are all completed via the VU simulator .

The pack avatar configuration module may interact with administrators or other operators of pack avatars to configure various settings of the pack avatar manager . Settings may be configured for particular pack avatars or groups of pack avatars e.g. this pack avatar should default to following within 10 meters of the user or for all avatars e.g. all pack avatars should default to looking like a donkey . The pack avatar configuration module may facilitate modification of default settings for the pack avatar manager as well. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any type of setting may be configured such as pack avatar size appearance operation movement or user associations.

The pack avatar movement module may move a created pack avatar within the virtual universe. The pack avatar movement module may include various sub modules to assist it in its tasks such as a proximity sub module a remote control sub module and an automation sub module . The proximity sub module may receive an indication of movement of a user associated with the pack avatar and the automation sub module may automatically determine pack avatar movement based on the received indication of movement of the associated user by for example keeping the pack avatar within a specified distance of the associated user. In another example the automation sub module may control the pack avatar to stay within line of sight of the association user. The remote control sub module may receive requests for pack avatar movement and command the pack avatar accordingly to allow for an individual such as an administrator or content provider e.g. a street vendor carrying wares to manually control the pack avatar. The pack avatar movement module may provide for flexible usage of pack avatars and may also teleport pack avatars within the VU or perform other types of movement. Movement orders may also change such as a pack avatar that is operating as an automated bot that switches to human control when presented with a situation requiring human invention such as a user asking a difficult question or requesting items that are not available.

The pack avatar operation module may create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items and may also render the pack avatar in the virtual universe as well as operating the pack avatar by accessing a shared inventory item requested by a user and rendering the requested shared inventory item in the virtual universe for the user. The pack avatar operation module may include sub modules to assist it in its tasks such as a pack avatar creation sub module a transaction sub module and a shared invention sub module . The pack avatar creation sub module may create the pack avatar and may also render the pack avatar in the VU possibly in conjunction with tire VU simulator . The pack avatar creation sub module may optionally associate one or more users with the pack avatar. The transaction sub module may facilitate transactions to borrow buy or lease shared inventory items such as by processing user requests handling payment and tracking or other functions. The transaction sub module may also enforce terms and conditions on users borrowing shared inventory items from the pack avatar. The shared invention sub module as will be described in more detail in relation to may manage shared inventory items carried by pack avatars. In some embodiments the shared invention sub module may retrieve a shared inventory items from its inventory source for passing to the VU simulator or client computer system for rendering.

At element the pack avatar manager may receive a request to create a pack avatar carrying one or more shared inventory items. The request to create a pack avatar may come from any source such as from a content provider or other owner of the pack avatar. In some embodiments pack avatars may be created automatically upon the occurrence of particular events such as a user establishing a session or entering a particular region of the VU. Pack avatars may also in other embodiments be created in response to a request from a user. The request may also optionally include preferred configurations for the pack avatar such as appearance style duration of existence or operation. Requests to create a pack avatar may also be automatic and based on a user s history of use.

The pack avatar manager may at element create the pack avatar based on the received request. The pack avatar may be configured in a wide variety of ways. The appearance of the pack avatar for example may be visible or invisible to other avatars. For visible pack avatars it may optionally have a graphical representation i.e. physical appearance of a pack animal such as a mule donkey horse or elephant. In other embodiments the pack avatar may have another representation evocative of something that carries items such as a vendor cart human bearer sled or any other item so that users are reminded of the purpose of the pack avatar. Other aspects of the pack avatar s appearance may also be changed to provide other information such as depicted inventory items on the avatar using color or other aspects to indicate how many items or what kind of items are available using graphical depictions on its skin to provide additional information etc. Graphical indications may assist users with accessibility and reduce cognitive load on the part of users.

After creating the pack avatar the pack avatar manager may optionally associate one or more VU users with the created pack avatar at element . If the pack avatar will remain stationary or wander freely association with a user is not needed. At element the pack avatar may be rendered and users may optionally be notified that the pack avatar is available. The rendering of the pack avatar within the VU may be performed by the pack avatar manager VU simulator client computer system or any combination of the components i.e. the pack avatar manager providing instructions to the VU simulator or the client computer system which performs the rendering .

For pack avatars that will follow the movement of one or more users the pack avatar manager may receive an indication of the movement of the one or more users at element such as from the VU simulator . At element the pack avatar manager may determine pack avatar movement and move the pack avatar or provide instructions to move it . For embodiments where the pack avatar moves in response to one or more users the pack avatar manager may determine movement based on keeping the pack avatar within a specified distance of the user within line of sight of the user or any other methodology. If the pack avatar is instructed to track a group of users the pack avatar manager may use algorithms to determine the best course of action in tire event that members of the group separate e.g. stay with the majority of the group . In other embodiments the pack avatar may remain stationary or may move independently of any users. Stationary pack avatars may be useful in high traffic areas or in areas to which users may teleport. Independent movement of a pack avatar as described previously allows a pack avatar to service many users and may be useful for content providers or operators of virtual geographic locations e.g. fairs concerts parks etc. where a pack avatar may walk around with items to share or sell. In yet another embodiment a user may summon a pack avatar causing it to be automatically teleported to the user s location. A user may summon an avatar by command by remote contact such as chat session or other means.

At decision block the pack avatar manager may determine if it has received a request from a user for one or more shared inventory items. If not the method returns to element for continued monitoring and movement of the pack avatar. If a request is received the method continues to element for handling of the shared inventory request as described below. A user may request a shared inventory item from a pack avatar in any fashion. Users may for example query a pack avatar to see what is in the pack avatar s inventory similar to how the user may cheek her own inventory. Users may select items or groups of items from the inventory to be shared with the user. Pack avatars may either come equipped with items or may hold items as instructed by users or a combination of the two . Requests for items that are carried by a pack avatar may be automatic and based on a user s history of use according to some embodiments. For example if a user has frequently requested an item from the pack avatar in the past when in a certain region this request may be automatically issued whenever the user is in this region. Such a history of use may be stored for example in data tables that contain information on items and their history of use.

Once one or more shared inventory items have been selected the pack inventory manager may at element access the permitted shared inventory items from their associated inventory sources as described in relation to . The pack inventory manager in conjunction with the VU simulator may then at element render the one or more requested shared inventory items in the virtual universe using the accessed shared inventory item. The pack inventory manager may optionally at element notify users in relation to shared inventory items such as by informing the borrower of the terms and conditions of borrowing by notifying the item owner that someone has borrowed the item by notifying users that the item is no longer available for borrowing or other notification.

If operations will continue at decision block the method may return to element for continued operation and movement of the pack avatar. If not the method continues to element enforcing the borrowing terms and conditions for shared inventory items after which the method terminates. Enforcement of the borrowing terms and conditions may include terminating use of a shared inventory item by a user after the expiration of a pre defined time period after inappropriate use of the item after a certain number of uses or any other metric. A user may optionally be given a chance to extend their term of sharing by for example paying additional fees.

A non limiting example of use of a pack avatar at a virtual amusement park may prove illustrative of the flexibility of the disclosed methodology. When a user enters the park they may pay a fee for a pack avatar to be assigned to her or her group. This customer may optionally choose characteristics of the pack avatar such as appearance behavior e.g. should follow customer be available on summon etc. or inventory items to be included e.g. basic or deluxe package etc. . The pack avatar is created associated with the customer or her group and may follow the customer around the park while holding items in inventory for her use or purchase as souvenirs. When the customer is interested in a particular shared inventory item she may request the pack avatar to demonstrate wear or preset the object. If the customer is pleased with the demonstration she may rent the item out for the duration of her stay at the park my making a payment or debiting an account . When the customer leaves the park any borrowed items will be returned while any purchased souvenirs may be kept.

At element the pack avatar manager may connect to the inventory sources associated with the permitted items and may at element retrieve the shared inventory items and any associated metadata . Based on the metadata tire pack avatar manager may at optional decision block determine whether item use is permitted by the requesting user. A particular item may have restrictions upon its use that are contained in the metadata such as by limiting the number of users who can share an item limiting the time of day or other conditions of use etc. If item use is not permitted the method continues to element for further processing. If item use is permitted or if no test is performed the pack avatar manager at element may notify a virtual invention manager if one exists of the use so that usage of shared inventory items may be tracked. The pack avatar manager may also at element store an indication of the use of the shared inventory item by the user.

At element the shared inventory items may be rendered for the user in the VU so that they may enjoy their use during their session. The user may be notified of the status of their use of the shared inventory items at element such as by notifying the user that permission was granted denied or partially granted. The user may also be notified at element of any terms and conditions of borrowing as described previously after which the method terminates.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present invention contemplates methods systems and media for providing a pack avatar for sharing inventory in a virtual universe. It is understood that the form of the invention shown and described in the detailed description and the drawings are to be taken merely as examples. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted broadly to embrace all the variations of the example embodiments disclosed.

