---

title: Reversible viscosity reducing polymer
abstract: A reversible viscosity reducing polymer is provided that has a crosslinkage between subunits inclusive of a single Diels-Alder Such a reversible viscosity reducing polymer is particularly well suited as a matrix material for a heterogeneous propellant. A process for forming a reversible viscosity reducing polymer inclusive of a single Diels-Alder linkage includes reacting a native crosslinkable moiety with a crosslinker moiety having a Diels-Alder reactive moiety of a diene or dienophile to form a Diels-Alder reactive moiety capped polymer subunit. The Diels-Alder reactive moiety capped polymer subunit is then exposed to a Diels-Alder reactant inclusive of a complementary Diels-Alder reactive moiety where the reactant also includes at least one conventional crosslinkable moiety to form a crosslinkable moiety capped polymer subunit. Reaction of the crosslinkable moiety capped polymer subunit is then reacted with a conventional multifunctional crosslinking agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07812069&OS=07812069&RS=07812069
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07812069
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081020
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention in general relates to a polymer that reversibly builds viscosity and is capable of cycling between low viscosity and high viscosity states as a function of energy input and in particular to such a polymer that reacts with an isocyanate curing agent forming a polymer particularly well suited to form a heterogeneous propellant matrix.

There exist a number of instances in which it would be beneficial to have a thermoset material that is able to cure and in the process build viscosity upon cure to a cured state and thereafter is amenable to reversible reduction in viscosity and subsequent rebuilding of viscosity. Such a property would be advantageous in fields as diverse as adhesives coatings molding and heterogeneous encapsulation. By way of illustration a polyurethane adhesive after thermoset cure would have a beneficial property of being able to reversibly liquefy for the purpose of either adjusting relative orientation of adhesed articles and then rebuilding viscosity and or to replace an object adhesed to a substrate without damage to the underlying substrate. Likewise a marred or otherwise damaged polyurethane or polyurea coating having the attribute of reversibly reducing viscosity and thereafter rebuilding to cure viscosity would be beneficial in healing such defects in a coating. In a molding application the formation of a lost wax casting positive is facilitated by the ability to reduce the viscosity of a casting model while also modifying the hydrophilicity of the components from which the model is formed to facilitate mold purge prior to a mold pour. Still further polyurethane matrices are routinely used to encapsulate heterogeneous particulate in applications such as propellants. While the polyurethane matrix is beneficial in forming shaped propellant charges and extending storage lifetime of propellant components against reaction with oxygen and or water at the time of propellant ignition the viscosity of a polyurethane matrix results in a deleterious thrust profile relative to homogeneous propellants.

Diels Alder reactions are known to produce linkages that are thermally reversible. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 489 451 and 6 825 315 are representative of polyacrylates and polyepoxides inclusive of Diels Alder functionalities. Unfortunately these chemistries have not been extended to form single Diels Alder linkages proximal to a conventional crosslinker in a polymer and under conditions of conventional crosslinking.

Thus there exists a need for a reversible viscosity reducing polymers such as polyurea and polyurethane polymers containing Diels Alder linkages. There further exists a need for the use of such polymers as adhesives coatings moldings and polymer matrices.

A reversible viscosity reducing polymer is provided that has a crosslinkage between subunits when the crosslinkage is inclusive of a Diels Alder linkage in thermodynamic equilibrium with a diene and dienophile. The crosslinkage has the form 

where L is covalently bonded to a first polymer subunit and is independently in each occurrence NHR imidazole R HS HO ROOC C R CR H R C CH HC CR OCN XOC X Cl Br I N Ris independently in each occurrence hydrogen or C Calkyl Ris an electron hydrogen C Calkyl M is a conventional crosslinking agent moiety known to be reactive with L of isocyanate OH NH COOH Ris in each occurrence independently a nullity or an intermediate linker of C Calkyl C Calkenyl and C Caryl Yis a Diels Alder reactive moiety of a diene or dienophile Yis a complementary Diels Alder reactive moiety relative to Yand is a dienophile when Yis a diene and vice versa L is independently in each occurrence NHR imidazole R HS HO ROOC C R CR R CH HC CR OCN XOC X Cl Br I N Ris a nullity C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Caryl and Z is L or L R Y Y R M L where Z is coupled to a second polymer subunit. Such a reversible viscosity reducing polymer is particularly well suited as a matrix material for a heterogeneous propellant.

A process for forming a reversible viscosity reducing polymer inclusive of a single Diels Alder linkage within a thermoset crosslinkage occurs through reacting a native crosslinkable moiety with a crosslinker moiety having a Diels Alder reactive moiety of a diene or dienophile attached thereto to form a Diels Alder reactive moiety capped polymer subunit. The Diels Alder reactive moiety capped polymer subunit is then exposed to a Diels Alder reactant inclusive of a complementary Diels Alder reactive moiety relative to the Diels Alder reactive moiety where the Diels Alder reactant also includes at least one conventional crosslinkable moiety to form a crosslinkable moiety capped polymer subunit containing an intermediate Diels Alder linkage. Reaction of the crosslinkable moiety capped polymer subunit containing an intermediate Diels Alder linkage is then reacted with a conventional multifunctional crosslinking agent.

The present invention has utility as a reversible viscosity reducing polymer. The reversible viscosity is achieved through the inclusion of a Diels Alder bond that is thermodynamically reversible in response to energy input such as mechanical stress or heating. Exemplary uses for an inventive polymer include but are not limited to adhesives coatings and matrices for heterogeneous propellants.

The ability to selectively reduce polymer viscosity through stimulus input allows one to readily remove or reposition such an adhesive heal a scratched coating and improve propellant emission performance respectively. These desirable attributes are obtained while improving heat flow between high viscosity and low viscosity states of an inventive polymer while maintaining thermal stability and processing conditions of a conventional polymer devoid of Diels Alder linkages.

According to the present invention a diene or a dienophile coupled to a moiety capable of reacting with a hydroxyl or amine group of an aliphatic polymer subunit is reacted to obtain a polymer subunit having an exposed diene or dienophile. Subsequent reaction with complementary diene or dienophile necessary to form a Diels Alder linkage and terminating in a moiety capable of conventional crosslinking incorporates reversible viscosity building characteristics into an inventive polymer.

An attribute of the present invention is the modification of a polymer subunit containing a native crosslinkable moiety first molecule to covalently bond to either a diene or dienophile to render the crosslinkable moiety no longer reactive. The exposed diene or dienophile extending from the polymer subunit is then reacted with a second molecule containing a complementary dienophile or diene respectively to form a Diels Alder linkage. The second molecule carrying the complementary dienophile diene also includes a second molecule crosslinkable moiety. The second crosslinkable moiety is induced to crosslink through exposing the polymer unit containing a Diels Alder linkage to a conventional crosslinking agent under conditions to induce the second molecule crosslinking moiety to react. As a result a crosslinked thermoset composition is obtained that possesses the processing and performance characteristics similar to a conventional polymer based on the polymer subunit and crosslinking agent that reversibly reduces viscosity through the thermodynamic dissociation and optional reassociation of the Diels Alder linkages intermediate between the crosslinkages and polymer subunits.

The polymer subunit backbone optionally includes aliphatic branches pendent nonaliphatic moieties and backbone aliphatic unsaturations that include carbon carbon double bonds. The aliphatic polymer subunit also has at least two native crosslinkable moieties L and is represented by the Formula I BL I where B is a polymer subunit such as a polyalkane such as polyethylene or polypropylene polyalkylene such as polybutadiene or butadiene acrylonitrile acrylic acid and carboxy terminated polybutadiene L is independently in each occurrence a native crosslinkable moiety of NHR imidazole R HS HO ROOC C R CR H R C CH HC CR OCN XOC X Cl Br I R C N Ris independently in each occurrence hydrogen or C Calkyl Ris an electron hydrogen C Calkyl and m is an integer of 2 or more. Preferably B has a molecular weight of between 500 and 10 000 g mol. Preferably L is the same in every occurrence. It is appreciated that m is an integer while average m values can include non integer values. When m is greater than 2 a crosslinked polymer may result including but not limited to three dimensional crosslinked structures.

The conventional thermoset polymer precursor of Formula I is reacted with a first molecule having the Formula II M R Y II where M is a conventional crosslinking agent moiety known to be reactive with L of Formula I and includes isocyanate epoxy acid halide azides alkynes Yis a Diels Alder reactive moiety of a diene or a dienophile and Ris a nullity or an intermediate linker of C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Caryl. Representative dienes and dienophiles illustratively include maleimide acid anhydrides furans and alkenes. It is appreciated that Y need not be a terminal moiety and is optionally a pendent moiety extending from R. Specific crosslinking moiety pairs for L M or M L illustratively include OH NCO NH NCO N N CHCH N HC C OH CHCHO NH CHCHO.

Subsequent to reaction of a polymer subunit of Formula I and a first molecule of Formula II a diene or dienophile capped polymer subunit exists. Reaction thereof with a complementary diene or dienophile creates a polymer subunit capped with a second molecule crosslinkable moiety and an intermediate Diels Alder linkage when the second molecule has the Formula III L R Y III where L and Rare each independently selected from those moieties detailed with respect to L of Formula I and Y of Formula II respectively and need not be the identical moiety for a given L or R Yis a complementary Diels Alder reactive moiety relative to Yof the ligand of Formula II and selected from the Y moieties listed such that Yis a dienophile when Yis a diene and vice versa and q has a value greater than 2 including non integer values. It should be noted that the summation of q from formula III and m from formula I must be at least four while maintaining a minimum functionality of two for either q or m.

Diels Alder chemistry involves an equilibrium between a diene and a dienophile forming a Diels Alder linkage formed at lower temperature right side of reaction Scheme 1 and at higher temperature equilibrium favoring dissociation of the Diels Alder linkage. According to Scheme 1 the furan diene is depicted as corresponding to a first molecule of Formula II while the maleimide dienophile is depicted as being a second molecule of Formula III .

While Scheme 1 depicts dissociation of the Diels Alder linkage occurring at about 90 Celsius it is appreciated that the equilibrium kinetics are readily modified through resort to other diene dienophile pairs. By way of example dimethyl fulvene maleimide dissociation occurs at approximately 90 Celsius anthracene maleimide dissociation occurs at approximately 120 Celsius and anthracene anthracene Diels Alder dissociation occurs at approximately 180 Celsius. The dissociation of the Diels Alder linkage is endothermic thereby absorbing energy from the thermoset system. The endothermic nature of Diels Alder linkage dissociation is particularly advantageous in applications such as heterogeneous propellant matrices. Additionally it is appreciated that by adjusting the stoichiometry of Diels Alder linkages present relative to the conventional polymer subunits more than zero and up to 100 crosslinkable moieties of polymer subunit are modified to include Diels Alder linkages prior to crosslinking. Curtailing the percent of crosslinkable moieties modified to include Diels Alder linkages through selection of the Diels Alder diene and dienophiles the heat flow temperature and minimal viscosity are readily tailored to a desired specification.

After reaction forming a Diels Alder linkage Y Y a polymer subunit is formed that again includes crosslinkable exposed moieties L . Through resort to a conventional crosslinking reaction with a crosslinking agent in the form M Rwhere m is an integer of 2 or more as detailed with respect to Formula I M is a conventional crosslinking agent moiety known to be reactive with L of Formula III and is selected from the moieties detailed for M in Formula II and need not be the identical moiety for a given M crosslinked thermoset polymer results having a reversible change in viscosity and Ris a nullity C Calkyl C Calkenyl or C Caryl. Typical of a traditional crosslinking agent operative herein is a di or higher functionality isocyanate. Representative of such isocyanates are hexamethylene diisocyanate HMDI isophorone diisocyanate IPDI toluene diisocyanate TDI trimethylxylene diisocyanate TMDI dimeryl diisocyanate DDT diphenylmethane diisocyanate MDI naphthalene diisocyanate NDI dianisidine diisocyanate DADI phenylene diisocyanate PDI xylene diisocyanate MXDI ethylenediisocyanate HDI other diisocyanates triisocyanates and polyfunctional isocyanates such as Desmodur N 100 and mixtures thereof.

In contrast to bismaleimide crosslinking agents used conventionally to crosslink epoxides mono maleimide or other monofunctional dieneophiles are used in the present invention to form single Diels Alder linkages intermediate between a native polymer subunit crosslinkable moiety and a conventional multifunctional crosslinking agent to form a crosslinkage of the form 

An exemplary synthetic scheme through reaction with a second molecule of Formula III is depicted in Scheme 2 where the conventional aliphatic polymer subunit is hydroxyl terminated polybutadiene the first molecule is 2 furfuryl isocyanate and the second molecule is N 4 hydroxyl phenyl maleimide.

It is appreciated that by swapping moieties M and Scheme 2 provides the conditions for equilibrium formation of PBD containing an intermediate Diels Alder linkage and terminated in hydroxyl groups amenable to crosslinking with a conventional crosslinking agent such as a di or tri isocyanate.

The present invention resorts to Diels Alder chemistry to provide a bond internal to a crosslinked thermoset composition subject to reversible scission in response to an energetic stimulus such as an increase in temperature or mechanical stress. Through selection of a Diels Alder Y Y bond equilibrium as a function of temperature the viscosity of a fully crosslinked thermoset composition is controlled based on the quantity of Diels Alder linkages present relative to the total number of crosslinkages present.

The present invention affords new desirable properties of improved thermodynamic heat flow within a thermoset polymer while maintaining existing processing conditions and reagents relative to a conventional thermoset material lacking a Diels Alder linkage. A particular advantage of the present invention is that system optimization associated with selecting a new base polymer or inclusion of a thermoset polymer matrix additive both approaches require greater effort to achieve an optimal system as the heat flow characteristics of the present invention inclusive of an intermediate Diels Alder linkage.

To form a heterogeneous propellant an inventive prepolymer terminating in crosslinkable moieties L and containing intermediate Diels Alder linkages to a polymer backbone alone or in combination with a conventional polymer backbone terminated in native crosslinkable moieties L are mixed with an oxidizer such as a NHNO NHClO NHClO NaNOO NaClO NaClO KNO KClO KClOand other perchlorates a particulate fuel such as metallic particulate and other optional additives such as a burn rate modifier bonding agents plasticizers antioxidant scavengers and the like. The polymer subunits terminating in crosslinkable moieties L and optionally L are crosslinked with conventional crosslinking agent.

With reaction between an isocyanate and a group L or L a crosslinkage is formed. By way of example a reaction of an isocyanate with the following L or L moieties forms a crosslinkage as follows hydroxyl urethane amine urea carboxyl carbamate. Crosslinking occurs at 20 Celsius the kinetics of a crosslinking reaction are modified by inclusion of crosslinking catalysts such as an organotin compound heating or change in pressure. The kinetics of isocyanate cure are well known to one of skill in the art. Component proportions and process for forming a heterogeneous propellant inclusive of Diels Alder linkages within the thermoset polymer matrix are detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 011 722 where an inventive thermoset polymer is readily substituted for the conventional binder detailed therein.

The present invention is further detailed with respect to the following nonlimiting examples. These examples are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims but rather to detail specific attributes of the invention.

A magnetic stir bar acetone 500 mL and 4 aminophenol 44.5 g 400 mmol are loaded into a 1000 mL Erlenmeyer flask to form a brown slurry that is stirred at room temperature. Maleic anhydride 40 g 400 mmol is dissolved in acetone 300 mL and added to the Erlenmeyer flask. Addition of the maleic anhydride induces a large exotherm and a color change from brown to bright yellow. The solution becomes homogenous for 3 5 min followed by rapid precipitation of a yellow solid. The resulting mixture is stirred at room temperature for at least 2 h. The precipitate is isolated via filtration and rinsed with acetone 200 mL . The yellow precipitate 75 g N N dimethylformamide DMF 50 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 300 mL round bottom flask. Next a slurry of PO 21 g is prepared in DMF 70 mL to which concentrated HSO 9 g is added. After a homogenous solution is achieved the solution is added to the 300 mL round bottom flask and the reaction is stirred at 70 C. for at 16 h. The solution is then cooled to room temperature and poured over a stirring solution of ice HO resulting in the formation of an orange precipitate. Subsequent filtration and washing with HO yields compound 1 of scheme 2 55 g 73 yield as a yellow orange powder. H NMR ppm 7.15 2H d 6.97 2H s 6.91 2H d .

A magnetic stir bar HTPB 10.5 g 9.3 mmol OH dibutyltin dilaurate 0.5 ml 0.93 mmol and CHCl 25 mL are loaded into a 50 mL round bottom flask. Next 2 furfuryl isocyanate 1.0 mL 9.3 mmol NCO is added and the reaction is stirred at 50 C. for 2 h. The reaction is cooled to room temperature and solvent is removed via rotary evaporation to yield PB Furan of scheme 2 in quantitative yield. H NMR ppm 7.37 1H s 6.32 1H s 6.25 1H s 5.8 4.8 50.48H br 4.47 2H s 2.4 0.9 93.61H br .

A magnetic stir bar HTPB 98.6 g 89 mmol OH dibutyltin dilaurate 22 mg 4 drops and THF 80 mL are loaded into a 250 mL round bottom flask. Next 2 furfuryl isocyanate 9.4 mL 89 mmol NCO is added and the reaction is stirred at 65 C. for 5 h. Next compound 1 16.7 g 89 mmol is dissolved in acetone 20 mL and added to the 250 mL round bottom flask. The reaction is stirred at 65 C. for 16 h. The reaction is cooled to room temperature and solvent is removed via rotary evaporation to yield TR HTPB of scheme 2 in quantitative yield. H NMR ppm 7.04 2H d 6.89 1H d 6.82 2H d 6.79 2H d 6.53 3H br 5.8 4.8 91.03H br 4.5 2H s 2.4 0.9 169.40H br .

TR HTPB HTPB and dibutyltin dilaurate are mixed with a Thinky ARE 250 mixer for 1 min at 2000 rpm. Ratios of TR HTPB to HTPB to dibutyltin dilaurate are dependent upon the desired characteristics of the final material. Molar amounts of 0 33 and 66 percent TR HTPB with the remainder being HTPB are prepared to subsequent analysis. Next an appropriate amount of crosslinker isophorone diisocyanate is added and mixed for 30 s at 2000 rpm. The resulting resin mixture is cast into molds and cured at either room temperature or 50 C. for 24 h.

The polymer produced according to Example 3 is subjected to differential scanning calorimetry. 15 milligrams of the 100 Diels Alder linkage polymer of Example 1 are held for 5 minutes at an isotherm of 50 Celsius and then subjected to a heating rate of 20 per minute to 200 Celsius and a cooling rate of 10 Celsius per minute to 50 Celsius. The sample was subjected to numerous thermal cycles. The differential scanning calorimetry graph for the sample for the first six cycles is shown in . A large endotherm is initially present corresponding to heat flow of 30.18 joules per gram J g . Annealing the same sample at 130 Celsius for 2 hours and repeating the scanning calorimetry process yields a heat flow of 1.89 J g. In comparison to the heat flow of an inventive polymer conventional polybutadiene having urethane linkages has a heat flow of 0.15 J g. The differential scanning calorimetry curve for the first three cycles for the annealed sample for the first three thermal cycles is shown in .

Differential scanning calorimetry was performed on an inventive polymer produced according to Example 4 to have 66 mole percent Diels Alder linkages intermediate between urethane crosslinking bonds and polybutadiene polymer subunits. The first thermal cycle produced according to the same conditions as those depicted with respect to the previous figures shows a large initial endotherm of 21.42 g in . After sample anneal at 130 Celsius for two hours a change in heat flow of 0.98 g is noted as shown in . In comparison conventional urethane crosslinked polybutadiene has a change in heat flow of 0.15 J g.

Differential scanning calorimetry was performed on an inventive polymer produced according to Example 4 to have 33 mole percent Diels Alder linkages intermediate between urethane crosslinking bonds and polybutadiene polymer subunits. The first thermal cycle produced according to the same conditions as those depicted with respect to the previous figures shows a large initial endotherm of 11.83 J g. After sample anneal at 130 Celsius for two hours a change in heat flow of 0.77 J g is noted as shown in . In comparison conventional urethane crosslinked polybutadiene has a change in heat flow of 0.15 g. It is noted that sample anneal eliminates thermal history along with approximately 90 of the heat of formation energy.

Four gravimetric analyses of 20 milligram samples of each of the polymers produced according to Examples 3 and 4 are obtained with a heating rate of 20 Celsius per minute from 20 Celsius to 600 Celsius. A plot of thermogravimetric weight loss as a function of temperature is provided in . Results of thermogravimetric analysis are provided in Table 1.

Samples produced according to Examples 3 and 4 are subjected to dynamic mechanical analysis analysis. A plot of storage modulus as a function of temperature also plotted as tan delta in normalized form is provided in with samples held initially for 5 minutes at an isotherm of 135 Celsius and heated at a rate of 2 per minute to 25 Celsius at a frequency of 1 Hertz. The resultant glass transition temperatures Tin 375 degrees Celsius as obtained from the plot of tan delta as a function of temperature are provided in Table 2.

Polymers produced according to Examples 1 and 2 were subjected to compression analysis at room temperature 20 Celsius and a displacement rate of approximately 0.5 mm min. The plots of stress as a function of strain are provided in . The ability to adjust material modulus through control of a percentage of Diels Alder linkages present is noted to both increase modulus 66 and 100 and decrease 33 relative to conventional 0 Diels Alder urethane crosslinked polybutadiene. It is noted from this analysis that mechanical stress is capable of cleaving a Diels Alder linkage at 20 Celsius provides a basis for the mechanical stress imparted to an inventive polymer being the basis for thermoset viscosity breakdown.

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

