---

title: In-well baffle apparatus and method
abstract: A baffle apparatus and method for use in a well to mitigate convective in-well flow. The baffle apparatus includes a baffle member attached to a rod. The baffle member prevents vertical flow of water in the well after the baffle apparatus is deployed in the well. At least one centralizer is attached to the rod to maintain correct orientation of the baffle member within the well. The baffle member and the at least one centralizer allow well water to pass during deployment and recovery of the baffle apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07757757&OS=07757757&RS=07757757
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Interior
number: 07757757
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080304
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 909 573 filed Apr. 2 2007 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

The present invention relates in general to ground water sampling and more particularly to a baffle apparatus for use in wells.

During the winter the shallow water in wells cools. When the shallow water becomes cooler than the deeper water in the well the well water turns over and begins a process of in well convection that continues through the winter. The convection transports dissolved oxygen DO from the surface of the water column to deeper parts of the well. When the aquifer is anaerobic the transport of DO to the screened interval can adversely affect the ability of passive samplers to produce accurate concentrations of oxygen sensitive solutes such as iron and other redox indicators and microbiological data. During low flow sampling the pumped water may be a mixture of convecting water from within the well casing and aquifer water moving inward through the screen. This mixing of water during low flow sampling can substantially increase equilibration times of indicator parameters cause false stabilization of indicator parameters give false indications of the redox state and provide microbiological data that are not representative of the aquifer conditions. In well convection is described in more detail in Influence of In Well Convection on Well Sampling by D. A. Vroblesky et al. 2006 5247 pp. 1 13 2006 and in Influence of Dissolved Oxygen Convection on Well Sampling by Vroblesky D. A. Casey C. C. and Lowery M. A. v. 27 no. 3 Summer 2007 pp. 49 58 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. Because this problem is likely to be widespread in a variety of climate regimes there is a need for an inexpensive simple device to mitigate in well convection.

The present disclosure describes a baffle apparatus and method for use in ground water monitoring wells that mitigates in well convection to provide more reliable water samples. The baffle apparatus includes a baffle member and one or more centralizers attached to a rod. The baffle member includes multiple flexible disks that prevent the vertical flow of water in the well after the baffle apparatus has been deployed. Each of the one or more centralizers includes a rigid disk that prevents the baffle member from tilting in the well so that convective well water cannot pass around the baffle member. The centralizers also have notches to reduce water entrapment when deploying or recovering the baffle apparatus.

The baffle disks are preferably slightly larger than the inner diameter of the well while the centralizers are slightly smaller than the well inner diameter. During deployment and recovery the flexible baffle disks allow the passage of water around the baffle member. The edges of the baffle disks bend slightly to cover the entire cross sectional area of the well which blocks vertical water flow after deployment. The centralizers are separated from one another a minimum distance of about 3.25 times the inner diameter of the well.

A water sample may be collected by attaching a water sampler below the baffle apparatus at the time of deployment. Alternatively the rod may be a hollow pipe and a sample may be collected by using tubing extended from land surface through the pipe to the desired sampling depth by extending the bottom of the pipe to the desired sampling depth and attaching tubing to the top of the pipe or by elongating the pipe and collecting the sample through the pipe.

Various aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which are not necessarily drawn to scale.

The present disclosure describes a baffle apparatus and method that mitigate the adverse effects on sampling of in well mixing of water due to diffusion and convection.

The embodiment shown in illustrate a baffle apparatus having a baffle member centered on a rod . One or more centralizers may be attached to the rod . Two centralizers one at each end of the rod are depicted in . The baffle member prevents vertical water movement in a well by covering the cross sectional space of the well to form a seal. The centralizers maintain the correct orientation of the baffle apparatus by keeping the rod vertical so that the baffle member does not tilt and lose its seal.

The baffle member has multiple flexible baffle disks made of polyethylene or other plastics or rubber materials. Typically about two to about four baffle disks are sufficient to block vertical water movement. Optionally each baffle disk may have one or more slits not shown to allow water movement during deployment and recovery. The baffle disks with slits are rotated so that the slits do not align. The baffle disks have center holes to receive the rod . The rod may be solid or hollow. In the embodiment shown in the rod is a solid threaded rod and the baffle disks are attached to the rod using fasteners such as nuts and washers pins etc.

The centralizers are rigid disks made of plastic or metal for example. The centralizers are attached to the rod e.g. by being threaded onto the rod and are held in place and prevented from being pulled off the rod by using fasteners such as nuts. A close up view of one of the centralizers is shown in . The centralizers have one or more notches typically about three notches per centralizer that allow water to pass through to reduce water entrapment when deploying or recovering the baffle apparatus . The notches may also be used to facilitate the attachment of lines e.g. ropes cables cords etc. to the baffle apparatus . The lines are attached to the top end of the baffle apparatus to lower the baffle apparatus into the well and to pull it out of the well. The lines are attached to the bottom end of the baffle apparatus so that devices such as weights and water samplers may be deployed with the baffle apparatus . For shallow wells an alternative for deployment is to extend the rod to the well top where the rod is secured to prevent the baffle member from tilting. This eliminates the need for the lines above the baffle apparatus and the need for more than one centralizer . An additional approach to deployment is to extend the rod below the bottom centralizer so that the rod contacts the bottom of the well. This assures proper vertical placement of the baffle apparatus with respect to the well screen.

The dimensions of the baffle apparatus may vary according to the dimensions of the well. The baffle disks have a diameter that is at least the same size as the inner diameter of the well. Preferably the baffle disks are slightly larger in diameter than the inner diameter of the well for better blockage of vertical water flow and the centralizers are slightly smaller than the well inner diameter for ease in deployment and recovery. When the baffle apparatus is deployed with the baffle disks having a diameter larger than the inner diameter of the well the flexible baffle disks bend slightly to cover the entire cross sectional space of the well which blocks vertical water flow once the baffle apparatus is deployed.

In the embodiment of the apparatus shown in the baffle apparatus is designed for a 2 inch inner diameter well. The rod is approximately inch in diameter and approximately 7 inches in length. Three baffle disks that are each approximately 2 inches in diameter are used in the embodiment shown in and the centralizers are both approximately 1 inches in diameter. The thickness of the centralizers may vary as long as they are rigid. The thickness of the baffle disks used in is about 1 16 inch but greater thicknesses may be used as long as the baffle disks remain flexible. The centralizers are separated from each other by approximately 6.5 inches in . In general the centralizers are separated from each other by a minimum distance of about 3.25 times the inner diameter of the well. A smaller separation distance may not prevent the baffle member from tilting and leaking.

The materials used to construct the baffle apparatus should not compromise the data quality objectives of the well sampling effort. Typical construction materials include plastics such as polyethylene polyurethane Teflon and other non metal materials. Metal preferably stainless steel can be used for components other than the baffle disks when its presence will not compromise the water quality.

Alternatively the rod may be hollow to allow collection of a sample from below the baffle apparatus without disturbing the baffle apparatus . Referring to when using a hollow pipe as the rod tubing is extended from land surface through the pipe to the zone below the pipe where it is attached to a pump not shown or left open and used to extract water by a pump such as a vacuum pump not shown attached to the top of the tubing . The tubing should tightly fit inside the pipe so that there is no annular space between the tubing and the pipe. During the brief initial pumping period of water level stabilization water will move around the baffle apparatus . The baffle apparatus will eliminate further influence of convection on the pumped sample after water level stabilization. Another sampling alternative is to extend the pipe below the baffle apparatus to the desired sampling depth rather than forcing the tubing through the pipe. In this way there is no need to have the inner tubing fit tightly within the pipe. Instead the tubing would merely attach e.g. by pressure fit quick connect etc. to the top of the pipe. Also rather than using the tubing the pipe may be extended to the well top so that the sample is collected through the elongated pipe.

The baffle apparatus described herein provides numerous benefits in the sampling of ground water in wells. For example the baffle apparatus is small lightweight non bulky and can be easily lowered into the well by one person with sufficient weight attached it does not need to be pushed or forced into the well to the desired depth. It does not require inflation or tightening with screws to produce a seal. Also deployment and recovery of the baffle apparatus is easy because the baffle disks are flexible and thus do not displace an inordinate amount of water. In addition special tools and equipment such as winches or inert gas are not needed to deploy and recover the baffle apparatus. Finally the baffle apparatus does not require attachment to an expensive device such as a borehole flowmeter to keep the baffle disks oriented horizontally across the well casing.

The present disclosure describes a baffle apparatus that is used to mitigate the adverse affects of in well convective transport of oxygen during long term monitoring of wells. The baffle apparatus provides a simple and inexpensive way to maintain proper baffle orientation and can reduce costs associated with monitoring ground water contamination sites and improve the quality of well samples during winter months.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications and variations of the present invention are possible without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

