---

title: Managing transmission protocols for group communications within a wireless communications network
abstract: Apparatuses and methods for managing transmission protocols for group communications are disclosed. In an example, an access network receives a forward link packet having a first transmission protocol, the forward link packet associated with a given group communication session. The access network determines whether the first transmission protocol is acceptable. The access network selects a second transmission protocol, if the determining step determines the first transmission protocol is not acceptable. The access network transmits the forward link packet in accordance with the second transmission protocol (e.g., by mapping the packet between transmission protocols at the access network).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08976722&OS=08976722&RS=08976722
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08976722
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---
The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to methods of managing transmission protocols for multicast communications within a wireless communications network.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiment of the invention include apparatuses and methods for managing transmission protocols for group communications. In an example an access network receives a forward link packet e.g. from an application server having a first transmission protocol e.g. multicast unicast etc. the forward link packet associated with a given group communication session. The access network determines whether the first transmission protocol is acceptable. The access network selects a second transmission protocol e.g. unicast multicast etc. if the determining step determines the first transmission protocol is not acceptable. The access network transmits the forward link packet in accordance with the second transmission protocol e.g. by mapping the packet between transmission protocols at the access network by prompting an access terminal to request the application server adjust its transmission protocol etc. . In another example an access terminal that wishes to participate in the given group communication session receives from the access network a prompt to request the application server to adjust a transmission protocol for one or more group communication messages intended for at least the access terminal. The access terminal transmits in response to the prompt a request that the application server adjust the transmission protocol.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the PDSN provides access to the Internet intranets and or remote servers e.g. application server for mobile stations e.g. access terminals such as from utilizing for example a cdma2000 Radio Access Network RAN e.g. RAN of . Acting as an access gateway the PDSN may provide simple IP and mobile IP access foreign agent support and packet transport. The PDSN can act as a client for Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA servers and other supporting infrastructure and provides mobile stations with a gateway to the IP network as is known in the art. As shown in the PDSN may communicate with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a conventional A10 data connection and or a conventional A11 signaling connection. The A10 and A11 connections are well known in the art and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to the BSN which may be integrated with the PDSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server can send both unicast messaging and multicast messaging to the PDSN BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the PDSN BSN via the BCA10 connection over the air interface via a downlink channel e.g. a broadcast channel BCH a control channel etc. to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In the application server selects a transmission protocol for the announced multicast session. The transmission protocol is selected based on the number of multicast group members within the multicast group after the multicast group is updated in . If the number of registered multicast group members is below a pre defined threshold the application server selects unicasting as a transmission protocol. Otherwise if the number of registered multicast group members is equal to or above the pre defined threshold the application server selects multicasting as a transmission protocol. Thus if relatively few multicast group members are present within the multicast group the application server need not undertake the overhead associated with multicast messaging and may instead send individual unicast messages to the multicast group members. Alternatively if a high number of multicast group members are present within the multicast group the application server can determine that the overhead associated with multicast messaging is outweighed by expected efficiencies.

It should be noted that the above described application server s transmission protocol selection algorithm describes a relatively simple algorithm that always selects multicasting as a transmission protocol regardless of the number of registered group members. This can be achieved by setting the pre defined threshold to zero. On the other hand the application server can alternatively select unicasting as a transmission protocol regardless of the number of registered group members by setting the pre defined threshold to a very large number.

After determining the transmission protocol in the application server provides packets e.g. unicast packets multicast packets etc. associated with the multicast session to the PDSN BSN in accordance with the selected transmission protocol e.g. as unicast packets if the number of group members is low as multicast packets if the number of group members is high etc. and the PDSN BSN sends the packets associated with the announced multicast session to the RAN e.g. over an A10 connection if unicast is selected and BCA10 connection if multicast is selected . For unicast packets the PDSN BSN sends the packets to BSCs where the individual ATs are located and instructs those BSCs at the RAN to transmit the packets to the multicast group members based on their AT IDs. For multicast packets the PDSN BSN sends the packets to BSCs from which multicast registration requests have been received and instructs those BSCs at the RAN to transmit the packets to the multicast group members based on the registered multicast session ID e.g. BCMCSFIowID . Thus the RAN e.g. BSC and potentially other BSCs as well receives the packets from the PDSN BSN e.g. over the BCA10 connection if multicast is selected in and transmits the packets to one or more multicast group members via the air interface in accordance with the selected transmission protocol determined at the application server .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the RAN typically does not play a role in determining the manner in which packets associated with a multicast session are transmitted. Instead this determination is conventionally performed at the application server . In part this is because the RAN is not conventionally aware of multicast group associations of access terminals within the wireless communications system .

Further the application server determines the transmission protocol for multicast sessions based only upon the total number of multicast group members in the multicast group. The application server does not for example take into account the relative locations of individual multicast group members because the locations of individual access terminals is maintained at the RAN and not the application server .

As will now be described with respect to embodiments of the invention are directed to improving an efficiency of wireless communication by taking into account at a radio access network of both i the multicast group associations of multicast group members or target ATs and ii multicast group member location criteria e.g. geographic locations of access terminals in a multicast group current serving sectors of access terminals in a multicast group etc. in determining the manner in which packets associated with a multicast session are transmitted to multicast group members.

Accordingly in the application server selects a transmission protocol for an announced multicast session. As discussed above with respect to of the transmission protocol is selected based on a current total number of multicast group members within the multicast group. For example if the number of multicast group members is below a pre defined threshold the application server selects unicasting as a transmission protocol. Alternatively if the number of multicast group members is equal to or above the pre defined threshold the application server selects multicasting as a transmission protocol.

For convenience of explanation assume that the application server selects multicasting as the transmission protocol in . Accordingly in the application sends one or more multicast packets to the PDSN BSN and the PDSN BSN sends the one or more multicast packets to the RAN via a BCA10 connection.

Instead of merely transmitting the multicast packets in accordance with the selected transmission protocol as instructed by the application server the RAN determines whether the transmission protocol selected by the application server is acceptable for transmission to all multicast group members . In an example the determination of can be based on i multicast group associations of multicast group members for a given multicast group as indicated in the multicast group membership table maintained at the RAN and ii the locations e.g. geographic locations or regions a more generalized coverage area associated with a serving base station etc. of the multicast group members e.g. as maintained at the RAN . In an example the RAN checks the list of multicast group members within the multicast group associated with the multicast communication from and then checks the locations separately maintained at the RAN to determine the locations of the multicast group members. This information can then be used to determine whether a transmission protocol is acceptable for the multicast group members. For example if the number of multicast group members within a given region e.g. a coverage area of a base station a sector a pre defined geographic region etc. is below a multicast threshold the RAN selects unicasting and if the number of multicast group members is not below the multicast threshold the RAN selects multicasting. It will be appreciated that the multicast threshold is not necessarily related to the pre defined threshold used by the application server because the pre defined threshold is based only upon the total number of multicast group members wherein the multicast threshold is based upon the number of multicast group members within particular regions.

In a further example assume that the determination of is sector specific and that the RAN enforces a multicast threshold per sector of four 4 such that unicast protocols are to be used in sectors including at least one and less than four multicast group members. Under these assumptions reference will now be made to .

Returning to in the RAN selects another transmission protocol for multicast group members associated with unacceptable transmission protocols. Returning to the example of the RAN determined in that multicasting is not acceptable within sector S because sector S included fewer multicast group members i.e. than the per sector multicast threshold i.e. . Accordingly in this example the RAN selects unicasting instead of multicasting in .

Next in the RAN informs each multicast group member for which the application server s selected transmission protocol is not acceptable of the alternative transmission protocol selection made by the RAN in . Returning to the example of the RAN informs the three 3 multicast group members within sector S that unicast messaging protocols are to be used to facilitate the multicast session in sector S.

The step of informing the multicast group members of the RAN selected transmission protocol acts as a prompt for those multicast group members to request the RAN selected transmission protocol from the application server . Accordingly in each multicast group member informed of the RAN selected transmission protocol requests the RAN selected transmission protocol from the application server . Returning to the example of each of the three multicast group members within sector S sends a request to receive unicast messages in support of the multicast session in .

Upon receiving the request to change transmission protocols at the application server the application server transitions to the RAN selected transmission protocol for the requesting ATs and thereafter sends packets in accordance with the RAN selected transmission protocol . The RAN receives the packets in accordance with the RAN selected transmission protocol and transmits the packets with the RAN selected transmission protocol . Thus in the example of the application server sends messages associated with the multicast session as unicast messages to the three multicast group members within sector S.

In the above described embodiment of the RAN enforces its transmission protocol selection of by prompting multicast group members to request a transmission protocol change from the application server . While this allows the application server to maintain awareness of how packets associated with a multicast session are actually being transmitted it will be appreciated that an increased amount of traffic is required to facilitate the transmission protocol change i.e. steps and of . In another embodiment of the invention the RAN can map the received packets sent in accordance with a first transmission protocol selected by the application server to a second transmission protocol selected by the RAN dynamically at the RAN such that the application server need not change the manner i.e. transmission protocol in which the packets are sent as will now be described with reference to .

Referring to steps through generally correspond to steps through as described above with respect to . Accordingly these steps will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In after the RAN selects an alternative transmission protocol for transmitting packets associated with a multicast session to one or more multicast group members the RAN maps the packets received from the application server in a first transmission protocol to a second transmission protocol as selected by the RAN in . For example if the first transmission protocol is multicasting and the second transmission protocol is unicasting e.g. within one or more sectors the RAN converts the multicast packet into one or more unicast packets in . With reference to the example of the RAN converts the received multicast packet into three separate unicast packets for each of the multicast group members within sector S. For example this conversion can be performed by sending the multicast packet over the individual unicast traffic channels TCHs for each of multicast group members within sector S. After mapping the packet from the first transmission protocol to the second transmission protocol the RAN transmits the packet in accordance with the second transmission protocol.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art an efficiency of group e.g. multicast communications may be improved in embodiments of the invention because the RAN can be configured to make dynamic transmission protocol decisions based on detailed multicast group member location information which is not typically available at the application server . Accordingly overhead associated with multicast communications which are sent over a broadcast channel BCH can be reduced in certain instances e.g. where the RAN determines a low number of group members to be within a given geo location in favor of establishing one or more unicast traffic channels TCHs for unicasting the multicast communications. Further while reference is generally made above to multicast communications it will be appreciated that multicasting is intended to refer to any type of group communication in embodiments of the invention. Accordingly if the application server transmits separate redundant unicast messages to different ATs in the communication may still be referred to as a multicast communication as used herein with the manner of transmission in support of the multicast communication being unicast instead of multicast.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

