---

title: Method and system for alerting aircrew to unsafe vibration levels
abstract: An onboard system for a rotary wing aircraft detects a limit cycle oscillation in the tail mast and provides a timely indication of the limit cycle oscillation to an aircrew before serious damage to the airframe is likely to occur.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07839304&OS=07839304&RS=07839304
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07839304
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080501
---
A rotary wing aircraft provides a complex vibratory environment. Vibrations emanate from many different sources including the main rotor the tail rotor gearboxes linkages and engines. Vibrations will vary in intensity and frequency depending on the speeds and relative speeds of rotation of the main and tail rotors load factors structural deformation resonances inherent in the airframe and aerodynamic forces.

Vibrations cause premature failure of mechanical components such as gears and bearings damage to avionics flight instruments fatigue to the airframe and discomfort to passengers and aircrew. Some underlying cause of vibrations include imbalances in rotating parts uneven friction meshing of gear teeth parts that are dragging together etc. Traditionally helicopter vibrations have been managed or suppressed by balancing and alignment of rotating parts reduction of friction the use of vibration isolation mounts installation of damping structures absorption materials and the like.

More recently electronic systems have been devised to monitor and manage vibrations on rotary wing aircraft. Rotor track and balance systems such as the Rotor Analysis and Diagnostic System RADS have focused on providing information that can be used in flight to adjust pitch links blade weights and trim tabs for smoother operation. Still other systems such as the Active Control of Structural Response system ACSR made by Agusta Westland have been designed to reduce vibrations of the main rotor by active control systems that employ high frequency force actuation within the helicopter s structure. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 853 144.

Unfortunately not all harmful vibrations have been mitigated by RADS ACSR or similar systems. One such vibration that is not mitigated by an ACSR or RADS type systems is referred to a limit cycle oscillation LCO . In general an LCO is defined as an oscillation of finite duration and finite amplitude which will return to a steady state value without additional external influences placed upon the system other than those found in the normal system environment. In some helicopters such as the EH 101 AW 101 manufactured by Agusta Westland LCO s of a significant amplitude and duration have been detected in the vicinity of the tail rotor. These LCO events are unpredictable occur only rarely and emanate far enough away from the cockpit that they have not been perceived by members of the aircrew until they have reached a magnitude that could cause damage to the aircraft.

In an effort to better understand LCO s in the EH 101 AW 101 and similar helicopters vibration sensors have been placed in the vicinity of the tail rotor and the signals monitored either on the ground via telemetry or by an operator while in the air. Because LCO events have been extremely rare and have taken place under a variety of seemingly unrelated conditions their causes are not yet well understood. However rare they may be the consequences of LCOs are potentially catastrophic. Thus the recommended course of action when a significant LCO is detected is to land the aircraft as soon as practicable before damage to the airframe can occur. Tasking an aircrew member to monitor for LCO events is simply not practical. Thus there is an immediate need for a system to detect and alert a helicopter aircrew to unsafe vibration levels from LCOs in the AH 101 AW 101 and similar rotary wing aircraft before damage from an LCO can take place.

In general in one aspect an embodiment of a system to detect a limit cycle oscillation event in a rotary wing aircraft according to the present invention includes a vibration sensor that outputs a signal to indicate vibration in the tail mast of the aircraft a filter to limit the signal output from the sensor to a predetermined frequency range in which the limit cycle oscillation occurs and a switch to provide a first signal when the filtered signal output from the sensor exceeds a first predetermined amplitude for a predetermined duration.

In another aspect an embodiment of a system to detect a limit cycle oscillation event in a rotary wing aircraft according to the present invention includes a second switch to provide a second signal after the first switch has provided the first signal and the filtered signal output from the sensor has exceeded a second predetermined amplitude greater than the first predetermined amplitude.

In yet another aspect an embodiment of a system to detect a limit cycle oscillation event in a rotary wing aircraft according to the present invention includes a third switch to provide a third signal after the second switch has provided the second signal and the filtered signal output from the sensor has exceeded a third predetermined amplitude greater than the second predetermined amplitude.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which are a part of this patent disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

The filtered output of first stage signal conditioner is coupled into a low pass digital filter unit having multiple channels which include analog to digital converter stages and low pass filter stages . Sampling in the prototype is performed by a four channel 12 bit analog to digital A D with fof 127 Hz. The inputs of analog to digital converters are coupled to the output of filter unit . The input of analog to digital converter is coupled to the unfiltered output of vibration sensor . Digital filters are preferably finite impulse response FIR filters with 120 taps 8 oversampling and fof 127 Hz. Digital filters have an Fat 15.88 Hz and essentially no attenuation at frequencies below 14.82 Hz. Digital filters are designed with sharp cut off characteristics to attenuate vibratory interference that is close to the frequencies of an LCO such as main rotor and tail rotor blade passing frequencies which occur at about 16.2 and 17.8 Hz respectively. Digital filter unit is implemented in the prototype system on an SCD 608D 2 signal conditioning card manufactured by Teletronics Technology Corporation. The overall passband of the Signal conditioning and logic unit is shown by a curve plotted in .

The data output from digital filter unit is monitored by a level detector having four channels . Channel is configured to provide an indication i.e. an output signal whenever the filtered data from vibration sensor indicates that a 0.7 g level has been detected. Since an LCO is known to occur at a frequency of between 10 and 15 Hz the indication from level detector is configured to persist for at least of the period of the lowest frequency of interest i.e. 10 Hz.

The outputs from level detector are coupled to a logic stage which includes a timer circuit latches and light drivers . The output from level detector channel is coupled to timer circuit which in turn provides an indication when the indication from level detector persists for 0.5 seconds or more. Timer may be adjusted to a shorter or longer period in alternative embodiments. The output of timer is coupled to a latch which is coupled to light driver

Level detector channel is configured to provide an indication whenever the signal from digital low pass filter channel exceeds a magnitude of 2 g s. The output of latch and the output of level detector are coupled to the input of latch . The output of latch is coupled to light driver

Level detector channel is configured to provide a indication whenever the signal from digital low pass filter channel exceeds a magnitude of 3.5 g s. The output of latch and the output of level detector channel are coupled to the input of latch which in turn is coupled to light driver . Level detector is configured to provide a indication whenever the signal from digital low pass filter channel exceeds 2.5 volts. The output of level detector is coupled to light driver

The outputs from light drivers are coupled to an LCO annunciator indicator unit which is positioned in the cockpit where it is easily seen by both pilots. LCO annunciator unit includes four display lights . The first three lights indicate LCO events and are arranged in a row in order of severity from left to right and include a green indicator light to indicate detection of the least severe LCO event a yellow indicator light to indicate detection of a moderately severe LCO event and a red indicator light to indicate that a severe LCO event has been detected. A blue indicator light is positioned below the row of lights to indicate that the data may be relied upon by the aircrew. In alternative embodiments audible alerts may be provided in addition to or as replacements for one or more indicator lights.

Operation of the system will now be described. As noted signal from vibration sensor which is not processed by first stage signal conditioner is monitored by level detector channel for the presence of the DC bias voltage from the background gravity field which will always exist when vibration sensor is powered up and working properly. Indicator light will be illuminated by light driver as long as good data is being received from vibration sensor . The light will not illuminate if there is no power to the instrumentation system no power to the accelerometer or the accelerometer fails to return a DC biased signal.

Signal which is processed by first stage signal conditioner will be monitored by signal conditioning and logic unit to check for three levels of vibration. The first level is currently set in the prototype to indicate whenever an oscillating vibration maximum amplitude reaches 0.7 G s. This indication is provided by level detector channel and initiates timer . Indicator light green of annunciator unit will illuminate if the vibration maximum amplitude remains at 0.7 Gs or greater for at least 0.5 seconds and will remain illuminated via latch . Only if indicator light green has been illuminated may second and third levels of detection circuitry be enabled. Indicator light yellow light will illuminate when the filtered signal reaches 2.0 G s. Indicator light red will illuminate when the signal reaches 3.5 G s.

Latches keep indicator lights and green yellow and red lit once they have been illuminated until the aircraft is powered down. Both the filtered and unfiltered signals from vibration sensor are preferably recorded continuously. A flag or other indication preferably will be set and recorded in the data stream every time the filtered signal transitions above each of the three data levels to facilitate post flight analysis.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments hereof it will be clear to one skilled in the art that the above embodiments may be altered in many ways without departing from the invention. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein.

