---

title: Method for treating carbon nanotubes, carbon nanotubes and carbon nanotube devices
abstract: A method for treating carbon nanotubes is provided. In the method for treating carbon nanotubes (CNTs), the CNTs are treated with SOgas at an elevated temperature, for example, at a temperature in the range of 385° C. to 475° C.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07887773&OS=07887773&RS=07887773
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 07887773
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081113
---
The present application claims priority to Chinese Patent Application CN 200710196650.8 filed in the Chinese Patent Office on Nov. 29 2007 the entire contents of which is being incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to a method for treating carbon nanotubes CNTs treated CNTs and a CNT device using the treated CNTs.

As one dimensional nano material CNTs are of many excellent electrical mechanical and chemical properties and therefore have attracted increasing attention. With the continuing study on this nano material the potential various application for the CNTs are continuously arising. For example the CNTs can be applied in the fields of electronics optics mechanics biotechnology and ecology and used in for example a nano field effect transistor a field emission source a hydrogen storage material a high strength fiber a sensor and the like.

CNTs can be classified as single walled carbon nanotubes SWNTs and multi walled carbon nanotubes MWNTs according to the number of the carbon atom layers forming the wall wherein the MWNTs may be considered as being formed by nesting the SWNTs with different diameters. In research and application the SWNTs and the MWNTs with relatively small number of atom layers are of importance due to the outstanding performance.

CNTs can also be classified as metallic CNTs and semiconducting CNTs according to their conductivity in which the former for example can be used in field emission source electrode materials and the like and the latter for example can be used in nano filed effect transistors sensors and the like. In Saito R et al 1993 B19 185 to 191 Saito et al. have through theoretical analysis concluded that according to the diameter and chiral angle of the SWNTs about of SWNTs are metallic and the other are semiconducting. Due to the various preparing condition purifying treatment and the like the ratio of the two types of CNTs may not be strictly consistent with the above theoretical value in the actual prepared product. With the increase of the number of the carbon atom layers the metallicity of the CNTs gradually increases and at last the CNTs become pure metallic.

The conventional methods for preparing the CNTs include graphite arc discharging chemical vapor deposition laser evaporation and the like. The CNTs obtained through these methods normally include both metallic CNTs and semiconducting CNTs that are mixed together. Therefore one of the prerequisite for the metallic and semiconducting CNTs being put into application is to separate the CNTs with the different conductivity from each other in the prepared product. Hence the separation of the CNTs has become one of the important topics in the research.

Currently many methods using the difference in chemical and physical properties between the metallic and semiconducting CNTs to separate the CNTs have been proposed. For example in Philip G. Collins et al 2001 292 706 709 Collins et al proposed an electrical breakdown method in Guangyu Zhuang et al 10 Nov. 2006 974 977 Zhang et al proposed a methane plasma treatment method in which the metallic CNTs were etched during reaction and the semiconducting CNTs were remained in Zhihong Chen et al 2003 3 9 pp 1245 1249 and in Yutaka Maeda et al 2006 128 37 pp 12242 Chen et al and Maeda et al proposed selective absorption methods respectively in Ralph Krupke et al 18 Jul. 2003 344 347 Krupke et al proposed an electrophoresis method and in Michael S. Arnold et al 2006 1 pp 60 65 Arnold et al proposed a density gradient centrifugation method.

However there are still needs for the methods for treating CNTs to modify the characteristics more effective for example for the methods to separate the metallic and semiconducting CNTs more effectively and in large scale or to obtain the CNTs with certain diameters.

The present application provides in an embodiment a method for treating CNTs using selective etching gases. The treatment may be performed at an elevated temperature. These selective etching gases can selectively remove the CNTs according to the CNTs characteristics and hence enrich the CNTs with certain characteristics. Such CNTs characteristics include the conductivity the diameter of carbon nanotubes and the like. The selective etching gases may be for example sulfur trioxide SO gas or nitrogen oxide NO gas.

In the method for treating CNTs according to an embodiment the CNTs are treated at an elevated temperature using SOgas.

Preferably the elevated temperature may be in a range of 385 C. to 475 C. and more preferably 400 C. to 450 C. and the most preferably 410 C. to 440 C. for example 413 C. 425 C. and 437 C.

Preferably the treating time may be in a range of 10 minutes to 2 hours and more preferably 30 minutes to 1 hour for example 45 minutes.

Preferably before the treating is performed oxygen may be excluded outside the reaction zone for example by vacuum pumping so that the CNTs may be treated under the condition substantially without oxygen.

Preferably after the gas reaction treatment with SO the treated CNTs may be further annealed so as to remove SOadsorbed on the wall of the remaining CNTs and repair the defects on the wall. The anneal treatment may be preferably performed at a temperature in a range of 800 C. to 1000 C. and the time may be in a range of 10 to 30 minutes.

In the method for treating CNTs according to an embodiment the treated CNTs may be preferably SWNTs or DWNTs Double Walled Nanotubes . Furthermore the diameter of the SWNTs may be preferably less than 1 nm.

In the method for treating CNTs according to an embodiment the partial pressure of the SOgas in the reaction zone is preferably 8 to 30 .

The method for treating CNTs according to an embodiment can control the conductivity of the CNTs effectively by making the content of the metallic CNTs especially those with small diameter increase so that the CNTs can be used for preparing CNTs device.

In the treating method according to another embodiment the CNTs are treated at an elevated temperature using nitrogen oxide NO gas. Preferably the nitrogen oxide NO gas may be nitrogen monoxide nitrogen dioxide or a mixture gas thereof.

In an embodiment the present application provides CNTs that are treated with a selective etching gas. Preferably the CNTs are treated at an elevated temperature with SOgas.

In another embodiment the present application provides a CNT device comprising CNTs that are treated with selective etching gas. Preferably the CNTs are treated at an elevated temperature using SOgas.

Preferably the CNT device includes for example CNT conductive film field emission source transistor conductive wire electrode material e.g. transparent porous or gas diffusing electrode material nano electro mechanic system NEMS nano cantilever quantum computing device lighting emitting diode solar cell surface conduction electron emitter display filter e.g. high frequency or photonic band drag delivery system thermal conductive material nano nozzle energy storage material e.g. hydrogen storage material fuel cell sensor e.g. gas glucose or ion sensor or catalyst support material.

In yet another embodiment the present application provides a CNT device comprising CNTs that are treated with planar molecular gas. Preferably the CNTs are treated at an elevated temperature using SOgas with a planar molecular.

Additional features and advantages are described herein and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

The embodiment of the present application will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

An embodiment of the present application provides a method for treating CNTs using selective etching gas and the method may be performed at an elevated temperature. The selective etching gases can selectively treat the CNTs according to the CNTs characteristics and hence enrich the CNTs with certain characteristic. Such characteristics include conductivity diameter and the like of the CNTs. CNTs with increased ratio of metallic ones can be obtained through the treatment. In addition the treatment method according to the embodiment can be used for purifying CNTs to remove the impurities such as amorphous carbon carbon nanoparticles and other debris that may be produced during the preparation of the CNTs. The selective etching gas includes sulfur trioxide SO gas or nitrogen oxide NO gas.

The CNTs with increased ratio of metallic CNTs obtained with the above method can be used for fabricating CNT devices for example CNT conductive film field emission source and the like.

The first embodiment relates to the method for treating CNTs at an elevated temperature using SOgas. The ratio of the metallic CNTs in the treated CNTs is increased by the elevated temperature treatment with SOgas and the separation of the metallic CNTs and the semiconducting CNTs is realized. The method of the first embodiment particularly enriches the metallic SWNTs with small diameter. The CNTs treated by the method of the first embodiment can be more efficiently used to fabricate the electrical devices using the CNTs for example field emission source conductive wires high performance conductive film nano electrode and the like.

The reaction furnace comprises a furnace body and a reaction chamber wherein the furnace body has the control device for controlling the temperature of the reaction chamber for example resistance wire for heating thermal couple for measuring the temperature the control circuit and the like. The reaction zone with generally uniform temperature can be obtained for example at the middle segment of the reaction chamber when the equipment is in operation. The reaction chamber may be a tube that is resistant against high temperature and SOetching e.g. a quartz tube and the like. The reaction chamber is provided with one or more inlets at the front end and one or more outlets at the back end. In addition a reaction vessel for loading the CNTs to be treated for example a quartz boat may further be provided in the reaction chamber .

The CNTs to be treated may be prepared by the conventional methods such as arc discharging method CVD method or laser evaporation method. However the present application is not limited to the method for preparing the CNTs. In addition the CNTs to be treated may be SWNTs or MWNTs such as double walled nanotubes DWNTs or CNTs with more carbon atom layers or the mixture thereof and these CNTs may include both metallic CNTs and semiconducting CNTs mixed together.

The CNTs to be treated may first be dispersed with solvent for example ethanol so as to decrease aggregation and increase the adhesive force with the quartz boat . The suspension is then transferred to the quartz boat as the reaction vessel and then drying and evaporation are performed to remove the ethanol and thus the CNTs which can be further treated can be obtained. However the pre treatment is not necessary and if the CNTs powders to be treated can adhere to the quartz boat steadily the pre treatment can be simplified or omitted.

The quartz boat loaded with CNTs after pre treatment is put into the reaction zone e.g. the middle segment of the reaction chamber . Because the oxygen in the air has ablation effect on the CNTs under at an elevated temperature it is generally necessary to preclude the oxygen gas or air in the reaction chamber and achieve an environment substantially without oxygen. For this the reaction chamber is first pumped out to vacuum and backfilled with inert gases such as argon Ar to the ordinary pressure. This step can be repeated for several times for example three times so that the air and moisture originally in the reaction chamber can excluded outside. In addition to Ar other inert gas may be used for example helium He nitrogen N and the like.

The temperature of the reaction zone the middle segment of the reaction chamber is increased to an elevated temperature for example 385 C. to 475 C. and then SOgas is supplied to the reaction chamber and the reaction continues for 10 minutes to 2 hours for example and then the supply of SOgas to the reaction chamber is stopped. At this time the gas treatment is completed. After that under the inert gas atmosphere or with the reaction chamber being again pumped to vacuum the CNTs after the gas phase reaction treatment described above can be cooled down to room temperature naturally or the treated CNTs may be further annealed.

In the treatment method according to an embodiment described above the elevated temperature may be in the range of 385 C. to 475 C. preferably 400 C. to 450 C. and more preferably 410 C. to 440 C. for example 413 C. 425 C. and 437 C. When the temperature is below 385 C. the reaction runs slowly. When the temperature is higher than 500 C. the remained product is small and this may be attributed to the fact that SOgas may have started decomposing to generate oxygen and thus generated oxygen gives rise to ablation on the CNTs treated at the elevated temperature.

In the treatment method according to an embodiment described above the reaction time may be 10 minutes to 2 hours preferably 30 minutes to 1 hour for example 45 minutes. If the reaction time is less than 10 minutes there is the treatment effect but not apparent whereas if the reaction time is longer than 2 hour the remained CNTs will be small.

The SOgas may be supplied with the inert gas such as Ar as the carrier gas bubbling through oleum and SOgas also can be supplied by other known methods in the art for example by oxidation of SOgas. The partial pressure of the SOgas in the reaction zone is preferably 8 to 30 in reaction. The inlet of the reaction chamber for supplying SO and the carrier gas and the inlet for supplying Ar to exclude the air may be the same one or separated two. The partial pressure of the SOgas can be controlled by controlling the flow rate of the SOgas with a valve not shown provided at the inlet.

After the reaction is completed anneal can be performed on the CNTs treated with SOin the same reaction chamber . The anneal temperature may be in the range of 800 C. to 1000 C. for example 900 C. with the time of 10 minutes to 30 minutes. The anneal can remove the SOgas molecules absorbed on the wall of the remained metallic CNTs and repair the damages such as holes which are etched by the SOgas on wall of the metallic CNTs during the reaction and therefore the products with better quality can be obtained.

6 mg HiPco SWNTs are dispersed in the ethanol with ultrasonic for 10 minutes to eliminate aggregation and to remove impurities and then the suspension is transferred to the quartz boat and is dried and evaporated at 90 C. to remove the ethanol resulting in the SWNTs which are to be further treated. The quartz boat loaded with the dried SWNTs is put into the middle segment of the reaction chamber with a diameter of 22 nm of the reaction furnace . The reaction chamber is pumped out to vacuum of 10Torr and then Ar is backfilled. The operations of pumping out and backfilling are repeated three times to substantially remove the residual air and moisture in the reaction chamber . Next the reaction chamber is rapidly heated to 425 C. and then SOgas is supplied by bubbling Ar 120 sccm as the carrier gas into a bottle filled with oleum not shown . After 45 minutes the supply of SOgas is stopped. The reaction chamber is again pumped out to vacuum and cooled down to room temperature naturally. Finally about 2.4 mg remaining SWNTs that has been subjected to the treatment reaction are obtained.

Herein HiPco High pressure carbon monoxide SWNTs treated can be purchased from Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc. USA . The Hipco SWNTs are prepared with the decomposition of the carbon monoxide CO under the high temperature and high pressure using iron Fe as catalyst the ratio of the metallic SWNTs in which is originally about 37 .

The characteristics of the SWNTs obtained in the above example are tested and analyzed with Raman spectrum and near infrared NIR absorption spectrum.

Before the Raman spectrum is performed in order to preclude the influence of aggregation state of the SWNTs on the testing results all the samples used for the Raman spectrum can be treated first as follows the samples are sonicated in ethanol for 5 min or more and then the suspension is collected and dropped on a glass slide and dried in air.

In Raman spectrum Radial Breathing Mode RBM corresponding to one of the feature diffraction mode of the SWNTs appears in the low frequency of 130 cmto 350 cm. The frequency of the RBM mode is inversely proportional to the diameter of the SWNTs and the relation can be expressed as 223.75 d 6.5 for example refer to Lyu S. C. Liu B. C. Lee T. J. Liu Z. Y. Yang C. W. Park C. Y. Lee C. J. 2003 734 wherein is RBM frequency with cmas unit d is the diameter of the SWNTs with nm as unit and the aggregation effect is also considered therein. The RBM frequency of 130 cmto 350 cmcorresponds to the diameter of 0.6 nm to 1.8 nm. However the shoulder peak of 1552 cmappearing at the left of the main peak of 1586 cm G Band is attributed to the split of the Emode of the graphite. Moreover the shoulder peak is also one of the feature diffraction mode of the SWNTs for example refer to A. Kasuya Y. Sasaki Y. Saito K. Tohji Y. Nishina 1997 78 4434 . In addition to these feature peaks the peak appearing at 1320 cmcorresponds to the mode induced by the defect i.e. D band and this corresponds to the defects of amorphous carbon and the like included in the sample. Moreover the G D ratio is the indicator for evaluating the purity of the SWNTs and the ratio is increased with the increase of the purity of the SWNTs for example refer to H. Kataura Y. Kumazawa Y. Maniwa Y. Ohtsuka R. Sen S. Suzuki Y. Achiba 2000 38 1691 .

In for the SWNTs with diameter less than 1.10 nm RBM frequency about 215 300 cm the metallic SWNTs are detected with excitation wavelength of 488 nm using the excitation wavelength of 633 nm the metallic SWNTs and the semiconducting SWNTs and will show Raman signals . It can be seen from that the semiconducting SWNTs with diameter less than 1.10 nm are almost completely removed. However as shown in and the metallic SWNTs and are all preserved. Especially the semiconducting SWNTs with diameter of 0.916 nm are remarkably removed whereas the metallic SWNTs with slightly smaller diameter of 0.902 nm are preserved as the starting SWNTs .

It can be seen from the above analysis the SOgas treatment according to an embodiment is of conductivity and diameter selectivity. Moreover this effect can be confirmed by the significant decrease of the peaks originating from the semiconducting SWNTs with diameters larger than 1.10 nm in as well as the remained intensity of the peaks originating from their metallic counterparts in that region as shown in

In addition G band obtained by using excitation wavelength of 633 nm in shows a slow decay back to the spectra baseline asymmetrical Breit Wigner Fano BWF line shape which is consistent with the fact that the resonant semiconducting SWNTs are removed effectively. However G band obtained by using excitation wavelength of 488 nm in shows a downshift which suggests that a charge transfer from the donor additions to the SWNTs. The treated SWNTs with little semiconducting SWNTs in do not show this downshift of G band. Such downshift in may be attributed to selective absorption of SOon the remained semiconducting SWNTs in the resonant treated SWNTs under the excitation wavelength of 488 nm.

By the above comparison it is speculated that the possible principle of the treatment reaction according to an embodiment may be as follows. The structure of the planar molecular of SOis 

The origin of the selective adsorption of SOmolecular with respect to the semiconducting SWNTs may come from preferential stacking of the planar SOmolecule which possesses electrons with more aromatic semiconducting SWNTs. However the adsorption of SOmolecular with respect to the metallic SWNTs is poorer. Therefore the molecules of SOabsorb with the semiconducting SWNTs selectively and further react with and destroy the carbon atom walls of the semiconducting SWNTs at elevated temperature. The destroyed CNTs may be first transformed into amorphous carbon and the amorphous carbon is in turn transformed into gas such as COor CO which is then discharged out of the reaction chamber . On the other hand the absorption between the molecules of SOand the metallic SWNTs is relatively weaker and the desorption occurs more easily at high temperature and anneal may also occurs. Finally the balance between absorption and desorption can be reached at the high temperature and the carbon atom walls of the metallic SWNTs may not be destroyed remarkably. During the gas reaction when the reaction temperature is higher than 475 C. especially higher than 500 C. the supplied SOgas may have started to decompose and generate oxygen and the generated oxygen has ablation effect on all the CNTs in the reaction which causes a great decease of the yield of the reaction.

In addition NIR absorption spectrum testing is performed on the treated SWNTs JASCO V 570 and these tests can provide the information on the conductivity of all the CNTs in the samples. shows that the absorption spectra of the starting SWNTs and the treated SWNTs and for the meanings of each of the peaks in the and please refer to Woo Jae Kim Monica L. Usrey and Michael S. Strano. 2007 19 1571. In M11 region corresponds to the metallic SWNTs and S22 and S11 regions correspond to the semiconducting SWNTs It can be seen form that after the treatment according to an embodiment the intensity of the peaks in S11 and S22 regions of the treated SWNTs is remarkably decreased while the intensity of the peaks in M11 region does not change which means that the semiconducting SWNTs are selectively removed while the metallic SWNTs are preserved.

In order to determine the separation efficiency of the treatment according to an embodiment on the CNTs of different conductivity a baseline correction and assignments of the diameter range of the peaks at near 1.1 eV and 1.8 eV which correspond to transitions between the first S11 and second S22 van Hove singularities respectively are performed on the treated SWNTs. Because the S11 band may be disturbed more easily than S22 Band first the S22 region around 1.8 eV with the diameter range that is written in the dash line rectangle in is used to evaluate the remove efficiency of the semiconducting SWNTs. As shown in the the peaks corresponding to semiconducting SWNTs with diameter of 0.84 nm to 0.98 nm have almost disappeared. Since the S22 region with band gap higher than 2.0 eV which is related to the CNTs with diameter smaller than 0.84 nm overlaps with M11 region S11 region that is in the dash line rectangle near 1.1 eV is used to determine the remove efficiency of the semiconducting SWNT with diameter of 0.6 nm to 0.84 nm. In the S11 region the peaks are remarkably decreased. It can be concluded that in the SWNTs with diameter of 0.6 nm to 0.98 nm the semiconducting CNTs are very efficiently removed.

According to the calculation to the relative area of the absorption peaks in the method according to an embodiment about 95 of the semiconducting SWNTs with diameter less than 1 nm are removed. While for the semiconducting SWNTs with diameter of larger than 1 nm it can be evaluated from the relative intensity of the Raman spectra in that the ratio of the semiconducting SWNTs is decreased from 66 to 34 . Thus as a whole about 75 of the semiconducting SWNTs are removed.

In the method according to an embodiment the metallic SWNTs are preserved more than the semiconducting SWNTs after the treatment and this phenomenon is contrary to the conventional view and gives rise to unexpected effect. In the conventional view it is generally considered that since the metallic SWNTs have more abundant electron charge density at Fermi level than the semiconducting SWNTs the metallic SWNTs should be more active in chemical reaction and therefore more easily be etched away. However since the SOgas is selectively absorbed to the semiconducting SWNTs in the gas phase reaction and etches the semiconducting SWNTs the metallic SWNTs are instead more inert and preserved in the gas phase reaction.

Carbon nanotube CNT transparency conducting films consisting of CNT networks especially of SWNT networks have recently attracted much attention because individual CNT s variation such as diameter and chirality can be suppressed by the ensemble averaging over a great number of CNTs. The conductivity of the film can be determined by many factors such as contact resistance between CNTs metallic CNT content in the network. Therefore in order to obtain the CNT film with high conductivity it is needed to minimize the contact resistance between CNTs and also to increase the content of metallic CNTs in the network. Therefore the CNT transparency conducting films can be fabricated using the treated CNTs according to the embodiment.

In the second embodiment CNT transparency conducting films are prepared by using the CNTs treated by SOgas at an elevated temperature and the characteristics are tested and analyzed.

As received HiPco SWNT sample Carbon Nanotechnologies Inc. is used as a starting material. The SWNT sample is treated with SOgas at 400 C. and 425 C. One milligram of the sample is dispersed in 50 ml of 1.0 wt sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS Biochain Institute Inc. Cat Z5050012 aqueous solution for 20 minutes using a horn sonicator Nihonseiki Kaisha Ltd. Model US 300T . The solution is then centrifuged at 50 000 g at 25 C. for 1 hour Sigma Model 3K30C and the upper clear part of the solution is vacuum filtered through a mixed cellulose ester membrane filter Millipore GSWP02500 dia. 25 mm pore size 0.22 m . As the solution falls through the pores the CNTs are trapped on the surface of the membrane filter forming a CNT film. The residual SDS in the film is washed away with distilled water.

The CNT film with the membrane filter is placed in contact with a quartz substrate. The membrane filter is covered with porous paper and a flat glass plate which are compressively loaded to keep the film flat when dried at 90 C. in less than 10Pa 1 mbar for 1 hour. The membrane filter is removed by dipping in acetone and then the CNT film is heated at 150 C. in less than 10Pa for 5 hours to remove acetone and to improve adhesion of the film on the substrate. The film is finally heated at 900 C. in less than 10Pa for 30 minutes.

Sheet resistance and transparency of the CNT film are measured using a resistive meter with a 4 pin probe Mitsubishi Chemical Co. LORESTA EP MCP T360 and MCP TP06P and a spectrophotometer Hitachi U 4000 respectively. Raman spectrum is measured with the excitation wavelength of 473 nm Thermo Electron Corporation Nicolet Almega XR dispersive Raman . The morphology of the samples is observed using a scanning electron microscopy with an accelerating voltage of 3 kV SEM JEOL JSM 6700F .

After the anneal treatment at 900 C. the peak intensity at 198 cmincreases again to some extent while the peak originating from the metallic SWNTs keeps unchanged which indicates that the anneal at 900 C. may repair a portion of the semiconducting SWNTs that has been partially damaged by the SOtreatment while the metallic SWNTs almost are not damaged by the SOtreatment and thus the peak for these metallic SWNTs does not increase due to the reparation. This complies with the fact that the semiconducting SWNTs are preferentially damaged and removed by the SOtreatment as described above.

As described above the intensity ratio of the G band at 1590 cm Emode of graphite I to the D band at 1350 cm defective induced mode I G D I I can be a good measure of the content and purity of the SWNTs in the samples and this value decreases with the decrease of the SWNT content and or with the increase of the amorphous carbon content. show the Raman spectra of the starting SWNTs sample the SWNT sample treated by SOand the SWNT sample annealed at 900 C. in example 2 respectively. As shown in the the G D value increases from 19 to 27 by the SOtreatment and decreased to 20 after the anneal treatment at 900 C. This suggests that a part of amorphous carbon is removed during the SOtreatment but the remained membrane filter that is used to prepare the conducting film is carbonized by the oxygen originating from the decomposition of the absorbed SOmolecules during the anneal treatment at 900 C. introducing new amorphous carbon into the sample. Since this anneal treatment is done in less than 10Pa the produced amorphous carbon cannot be removed by oxidation during the anneal treatment resulting in the decrease of the G D value.

Thus the transparent conductive film with increased sheet resist is obtained with the CNTs treated with SOgas according to the second embodiment.

In the third embodiment the CNTs treated with SOat an elevated temperature are used to fabricate the CNT film served as field emission source for a filed emission display FED . The fabrication of the carbon nanotube thin film can be done as follows.

The CNTs treated according to the embodiment are dispersed in ethanol with ultrasonic for 5 hours and then the ethanol is removed through volatilization. The mixture of terpilenol and cellulose with mass ratio of 95 5 is used as organic solvent and is mixed with the dispersed CNTs to produce slurry for silk screen printing in which the mass ratio between the organic solvent and CNTs is for example 3 2.

The slurry is printed on a glass substrate by silk screen printing to form the desired pattern and then is sintered. Subsequently the sintered CNTs are activated. First the surface of the CNT film is slightly polished or etched and the terminals of the CNTs are exposed then ion etching may be performed on the CNTs to increase the ability for emitting electrons. In order to improve the conductivity of the thin film of CNTs silver powder may be added into the slurry for printing.

In the FED the CNTs serve as the cathode and the indium tin oxide ITO thin film coated with a layer of fluorescent powder serves as the anode and the cathode and the anode are separated from each other by about 15 mm with barrier ribs disposed therebetween. Under the control of control circuit for example a voltage can be applied between the cathode and the anode the electrons can be emitted from the CNTs as the cathode and the emitted electrons are forced to the anode and activate the fluorescent layer to display image.

With the treatment method according to an embodiment the separation for CNTs of different conductivity is performed and the metallic CNTs can be enriched and hence the enriched metallic CNTs can be further used for various electronic devices for example a conductive film and a field emission source and also can be used in other types of CNT device such as a transistor a conductive wire a electrode material e.g. transparent porous and gas diffusing material a nano electro mechanic system NEMS a nano cantilever a quantum computing device a lighting emitting diode a solar cell a surface conduction electron emitter display a filter e.g. high frequency or photonic band a drag delivery system a thermal conductive material a nano nozzle an energy storage material e.g. hydrogen storage material a fuel cell a sensor e.g. gas glucose or ion sensor or a catalyst support material which use the treated CNTs according to an embodiment. Another embodiment relates to using the above treated CNTs to fabricate carbon nanotube devices.

In the forth embodiment the selective treatment is performed on CNTs at an elevated temperature using nitrogen oxide NO gas which enables the separation of the metallic and semiconducting CNTs. The device used in the embodiment for the treatment can be similar to that shown in . The nitrogen oxide includes nitrous oxide NO nitric oxide NO nitrogen dioxide NO nitrogen tetroxide NO nitrogen pentoxide NO or the mixture thereof preferably nitric oxide nitrogen dioxide or the mixture thereof.

Although the above description is made with respect to the SWNTs that are treated in the above examples it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the treatment method of the present application will produce the same effect on MWNTs especially the MWNTs with small diameter and relatively small number of walls two layers or three layers for example and enables the separation of the metallic MWNTs and semiconducting counterparts and selective removal of the CNTs with different diameters.

The method for treating the CNTs according to an embodiment at least has the following advantages. First the content of metallic CNTs especially metallic CNTs with small diameter is increased resulting in the separation of the metallic and semiconducting CNTs. Second the high temperature treatment during the reaction has the anneal effect to remove the functionalized groups on the wall of the CNTs and repair the defects on the CNTs. Third the treatment method of the present application does not need the complicated post treatment such as centrifugal separation. Fourth the impurities such as amorphous carbon can be removed in the reaction and thus purify the CNTs.

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

