---

title: Irrigation controller with selectable watering restrictions
abstract: An irrigation controller includes a processor and a memory that either forms a part of the processor or is connected to the processor. A plurality of manually actuable controls allow a user to enter a watering program into the memory or select a watering program stored in the memory. Circuitry is controlled by the processor for turning corresponding valves ON and OFF in accordance with the watering program. Programming stored in the memory implements predetermined watering restrictions that disable portions of the watering otherwise effectuated by the watering program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700222&OS=08700222&RS=08700222
owner: Hunter Industries, Inc.
number: 08700222
owner_city: San Marcos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080304
---
The present invention relates to irrigation controllers that turn a plurality of valves ON and OFF to water residential and commercial landscaping.

Because water conservation is becoming ever more important there are currently many water districts that restrict when irrigation can occur. As used hereafter the term water district includes any private governmental or quasi governmental agency or any other entity that has the authority to mandate landscape watering restrictions. Many water districts across the United States are expected to implement landscape watering restrictions in the future. These watering restrictions can include even or odd calendar days days of the week like Monday Wednesday and Friday. or Tuesday Thursday. Saturday and watering intervals. By way of further example the Southern Nevada Water Authority SNWA does not permit landscape watering between 11 00 a.m. and 7 00 p.m. from May 1 to September 30. This is because it is well known that more water is wasted if landscape watering occurs during the hottest part of the day particularly in late Spring Summer and early Fall. As used herein the term watering restrictions refers to any prohibitions or limits on landscape watering imposed by a water district including days and times which may or may not vary seasonally.

If watering restrictions are not too complex it is possible though tedious for a user to program a residential or commercial irrigation controller so that the watering executed by the controller complies with the watering restrictions. Many cities are imposing fines if irrigation occurs outside of the restricted days and times.

Some water districts are mandating much more complex watering restrictions. These include restrictions that change during the year with seasonal changes including changing the days that watering is allowed and making this change multiple times a year changing what hours watering is allowed and changing this multiple times each year but not necessarily every time the days to water changes. As an example the SNWA currently has six different watering groups A F to which its customers have been assigned. Each customer must manage its irrigation to comply with the particular set of watering restrictions it has been assigned. Each one of the assigned set of watering restrictions changes four times through the year based on seasonal needs. The changes in each schedule include the days on which watering can occur. The changes in each set of watering restrictions may also include the hours during which watering is allowed to occur. There are also exemptions to these watering restrictions. For example new lawns and new plants are exempt to allow them time to get established and therefore need to be managed separately. Drip irrigation also has different guidelines and may be managed independently of any watering restrictions.

Electronic irrigation controllers used in conjunction with residential and commercial landscaping typically execute watering programs that turn various zones or stations ON and OFF throughout the week in accordance with pre programmed run and cycle times. As used herein the term watering program refers to any set of instructions selected and or defined by a user that are executed by a processor to accomplish the foregoing watering of turf plants and other landscaping. In order for water users to comply with complex watering restrictions and also maintain the health of their landscape they need to re program their conventional irrigation controllers four times per year so that the watering effectuated by its watering program complies with the watering restrictions. Some homeowners make an effort to re program their controllers every few weeks to accommodate these restrictions. Most homeowners do not have the patience or ability to understand their irrigation needs well enough to do this. Many lack the technical skills to re program their irrigation controllers to modify their watering programs so that they comply with complex watering restrictions. In some geographic locations such as Scottsdale Ariz. some homeowners only occupy their property on a seasonal basis which increases the challenges for them to comply with watering restrictions. The only current option for homeowners and property owners who lack the skills to re program their irrigation controllers in a complex manner is to hire an experienced irrigation expert to re program their systems four times each year at their expense. Thus the growing population and depleting natural resources have created a need for a more convenient and reliable way of complying with watering restrictions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an irrigation controller includes a processor and a memory that either forms a part of the processor or is connected to the processor. A plurality of manually actuable controls allow a user to enter a watering program into the memory or select a watering program stored in the memory. Circuitry is controlled by the processor for turning corresponding valves ON and OFF in accordance with the watering program. Programming stored in the memory implements predetermined watering restrictions that disable portions of the watering otherwise effectuated by the watering program.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention an irrigation management system includes a computer connected to least one irrigation controller on an irrigation site having a processor that turns a plurality of valves located on the irrigation site ON and OFF in accordance with a watering program stored in the irrigation controller. A communications link connects the computer and the irrigation controller such that the computer may be at a location other than the irrigation site. Programming executable by the computer implements predetermined watering restrictions that disable portions of the watering otherwise effectuated by the watering program stored in the irrigation controller.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method is provided for watering turf and or landscaping that conserves water. The method includes the steps of providing an irrigation controller having a plurality of manually actuable controls entering or selecting a watering program via the manually actuable controls selecting pre programmed watering restrictions via the manually actuable controls that disable portions of the watering otherwise effectuated by the watering program and watering turf and or landscaping by having a processor in the irrigation controller turn a plurality of valves ON and OFF in accordance with the watering program as inhibited by the selected watering restrictions. The watering restrictions can be selected before or after the watering program is entered or selected.

The entire disclosures of the following U.S. patents and applications are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 5 097 861 granted Mar. 24 1992 of Hopkins et al. entitled U.S. Pat. No. 5 444 611 granted Aug. 22 1995 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled U.S. Pat. No. 5 829 678 granted Nov. 3 1998 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled S U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621 granted Jul. 11 2000 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630 granted Apr. 13 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled U.S. Pat. No. 6 842 667 granted Jan. 11 2005 of Beutler et al. entitled U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 883 283 filed Jun. 30 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled now U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 115 granted Jun. 27 2007 pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 425 filed Nov. 9 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. and entitled U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 045 527 filed Jan. 28 2005 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled now U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 991 granted Jul. 17 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 289 886 of Peter J. Woytowitz granted Oct. 30 2007 entitled U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 of Lamonte D. Porter granted May 29 2007 entitled and pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 458 551 filed Jul. 19 2006 of Lamonte D. Porter et al. entitled . The aforementioned U.S. patents and applications are all assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application.

In one embodiment of the present invention a stand alone irrigation controller that allows a user to select a watering program in a conventional manner and includes additional functions that enable the watering program that has been selected by the user to be automatically inhibited throughout the year to meet complex watering restrictions imposed by a water district in which the irrigation controller has been installed. Programming stored in the memory of the irrigation controller implements predetermined watering restrictions that disable portions of the watering otherwise effectuated by the watering program.

Referring to an irrigation controller in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention includes a wall mountable plastic housing structure in the form of a generally box shaped front door hinged along one vertical edge to a generally box shaped back panel . A generally rectangular face pack is removably mounted over the back panel and is normally concealed by the front door when not being accessed for programming. The face pack has a plurality of manually actuable controls including a rotary knob switch and push button switches and as well as slide switch . These manual controls can be manipulated in conjunction with numbers words and or graphic symbols indicated on a liquid crystal display LCD for entering or selecting a watering program as is well known in the art of electronic irrigation controllers. Watering schedules or watering programs consisting of various run and cycle times can be entered by the user by manipulating the rotary knob switch and selected ones of the push button switches and . The watering program can be a complicated set of run time and cycle programs or a portion thereof such as a simple five minute cycle for a single station. Alternatively existing pre programmed watering programs can be selected such as selected zones every other day. Still another alternative involves uploading a watering program through the SMART PORT Trademark feature of the irrigation controller .

The face pack encloses and supports a printed circuit PC board not illustrated with a processor for executing and implementing a stored watering program. An electrical connection is made between the face pack and the components in the back panel through a ribbon cable not illustrated . The circuitry inside the face pack can be powered by a battery to allow a person to remove the face pack un plug the ribbon cable and walk around the lawn garden area or golf course while entering a watering program or altering a pre existing watering program.

The micro processor controls the station modules including the master module in accordance with one or more watering programs. Serial or multiplexed communication is enabled over the bus so that all of the information as to which stations or zones should be turned ON and OFF at any given time is present at each receptacle. Suitable synchronous serial data and asynchronous serial data station module circuits are disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630. The station modules each include a small PC board not illustrated which supports a station module circuit preferably including a micro controller as well as multiple valve switching devices such as transistors or triacs for switching the twenty four volt AC signal ON and OFF to different solenoid actuated valves not illustrated . Typically the solenoid actuated valves are mounted in subterranean plastic boxes not illustrated relatively close to the controller . As used herein the term irrigation valve includes any type of remotely controlled valve useable in an irrigation system that may or may not employ a solenoid.

A locking bar can be manually slid up and down in between unlocked and locked positions to secure and un secure the station modules and after they have been fully inserted into their respective receptacles. Opposing raised projections formed on the locking bar facilitate sliding the locking bar with a thumb. A pointer extends from one of the raised projections and serves as a position indicator that aligns with UNLOCKED and LOCKED indicia not illustrated molded into the upper surface of another plastic support structure mounted inside back panel .

One or more sets of watering restrictions can be pre programmed into the irrigation controller during its manufacture. The watering restrictions are preferably pre programmed into the same integrated circuit memory in the irrigation controller that stores the watering programs. When the irrigation controller is initially installed the user normally enters the current date and time. The micro processor has an electronic real time clock associated with the same so that the irrigation controller can turn the valves ON and OFF at the proper times on the proper days of the week. In executing the selected watering program which is inhibited by the selected watering restrictions the microprocessor uses date and time information that is maintained with the aid of the clock to periodically make adjustments to the watering restrictions throughout the year as required by the water district. In a commercial form of the present invention the irrigation controller automatically restricts watering on the installation to the allowed days of the week and will change those allowable days automatically four times per year. The real time clock has its own battery that will maintain accurate time and date information even if a nine volt battery in the irrigation controller is missing or dead during a power outage. This clock helps keep the watering effectuated by the irrigation controller in sync with the watering restrictions even if there is an AC power failure.

In the preferred embodiment of the irrigation controller any watering that has been selected by the user when entering or selecting a watering program that would violate the selected watering restrictions will be negated i.e. will not take place. For example if the watering program calls for Zone to water five minutes on Friday starting at 2 00 p.m. and the watering restrictions do not allow any watering on Fridays the micro processor will not turn the valve for Zone ON at any time on Friday. In the same example if the watering restrictions allow watering on Friday but not between 11 00 a.m. and 7 00 p.m. the micro processor will also not turn ON Zone at the time scheduled in the watering program.

The watering negated by the watering restrictions is not shifted by the irrigation controller to a different time slot where it would not violate the selected watering restrictions in an attempt to deliver a given amount of water per week. This is because such shifting would typically be undesirable. For example if the watering program selected by the user calls for five minutes watering for each station on Mondays Wednesdays and Fridays and the selected watering restrictions prohibit watering on Fridays the irrigation controller will not turn ON any valves on Fridays. Nor will the irrigation controller automatically shift the Friday watering to Tuesday for example as this may be the day the homeowner has scheduled for lawn cutting. Since the irrigation controller does not automatically shift water run times from prohibited time blocks to permitted time blocks in an attempt to maintain a predetermined water budget the user may be required to modify the watering program in a manner that makes up for the lost watering negated by the watering restrictions yet still complies with the same in order to maintain the optimum health of the landscaping.

Step in namely ACCESS SPECIAL WATER RESTRICTION SETTINGS MODE may be a hidden function of the irrigation controller i.e. there may be no position for rotary knob switch that is specifically dedicated to this part of the irrigation controller . There can be many hidden functions that are used to initially set up the irrigation controller but do not need to be accessed for normal use afterwards. A special sequence of push button and rotary dial manipulation can access these hidden functions e.g. holding down two push buttons twisting rotary knob from Run to Set Days to Water and then releasing the push buttons. The hidden function aspect of selecting the water restrictions prevents the user from de activating or removing the water restrictions. The water restriction settings mode could be accessed any number of other ways including a menu process a position of the rotary knob switch a push button dedicated to its access or other direct and indirect ways.

In step in namely SELECT APPROPRIATE RESTRICTION MODE FROM A VARIETY OF OPTIONS the user selects a pre programmed watering restrictions. These can include complex schedules as defined by a water district that include days of the week during which watering is or is not permitted as well as hours of the day during which watering is or is not permitted and permutations and combinations of such prohibitions.

In one example the user may select a particular water district. Where there is only one water district available only the numbers 0 and 1 may be indicated on the display as possible choices. Selecting 1 can select for example the Southern Nevada Water Authority. The water districts could be identified by letter number a series of letters a series of numbers or the combination of both. The water district options could be selected from a menu that spells out the names of the different water districts. Further as more water districts impose watering restrictions the irrigation controller could be modified to require additional steps in the sequence to make the water district selection. The user could first be required to sort by the first letter or by state or by other region prior to selecting the water district. For example to find the Southern Nevada Water authority the user might first select the letter S prior to selecting the individual water district or the user might select NV which is the abbreviation for the State of Nevada. The user might then select the appropriate water district within Nevada. The selection of watering restrictions by the user can be placed in a different order of events as illustrated in but not limited by .

In step in namely SELECT PROGRAMS TO BE EFFECTED BY RESTRICTED WATERING the user can choose which watering programs that are to be limited by the watering restrictions. For example this can be a selection from program A programs A and B or programs A B and C. The reason for including this capability is to meet various requirements of the watering restrictions as well as the flexibility of the irrigation controller . As an example drip irrigation may be exempt from the watering restrictions. It can be used at different times and therefore the user will want at least one program available to schedule any drip zones. New lawns and new plants may also be exempt to allow them time to get established and therefore they need to be managed in a different way to allow extra watering outside normal restrictions for a period of thirty days.

Some users may want to control their outdoor lighting or other non irrigation features such as an electric fountain using the irrigation controller . In these situations the user may want one or more watering programs available for these functions that also may also be exempt from the watering restrictions. The programming of the irrigation controller can include the option to select more program options. The function of selecting which watering programs are subject to the irrigations restrictions may be placed in a different order of events as illustrated in but not limited by .

Step in namely EXIT WATER RESTRICTION MODE may or may not be required at this point in the programming sequence or at all for that matter.

Step in namely ACCESS DAYS TO WATER MODE is the step in which the user can select specific group watering restrictions. The irrigation controller may be pre programmed with different group watering restrictions designated A F that may be conveniently selected by the user.

Step in namely SELECT FROM SET OF PREDETERMINED RESTRICTIONS BY LETTER involves accessing the days to water field. In the preferred embodiment the display can indicate for example that the current water district setting is A when entering the field for the first time. Pressing the plus or minus pushbuttons or can change the water district setting up or down one letter at a time until the user reaches the letter that corresponds with the users assigned group. Once the user enters the letter associated with the desired water district the irrigation controller appropriately restricts watering to the predetermined days and times. The irrigation controller can allow for the selection of the watering group by letters numbers a series of each or a combination of both. It is possible for the selection process to be accomplished with user interface tools such as dials buttons keyboards or a combination thereof. This function may be included in the water restriction mode so all information is entered in one place. As irrigation controllers and user interfaces evolve in flexibility and capacity this function can be located where it is easiest for the user.

In managing different irrigation sites through the PC the watering program is selected by the user via point and click menus and then the watering restrictions described above are also implemented by the user via point and click menus. The fields for selecting the watering restrictions can be much more descriptive in the PC environment. For example the user can select the actual name of the water district. The user can also select the water district directly or from a graphic menu. Selecting a location from a map can also impose the watering restrictions. The PC can manage watering at multiple geographically disperse sites that are subject to different watering restrictions.

Persons skilled in the art of irrigation controllers will appreciate that the present invention also provides novel a method of watering turf and or landscaping in order to conserve water. In one embodiment the method includes the steps of providing a stand alone irrigation controller having a plurality of manually actuable controls entering or selecting a watering program via the manually actuable controls selecting pre programmed watering restrictions via the manually actuable controls that disable portions of the watering otherwise effectuated by the watering program and watering turf and or landscaping by having a processor in the irrigation controller turn a plurality of valves ON and OFF in accordance with the watering program as inhibited by the selected watering restrictions. It will be understood that the order of the steps of entering or selecting the watering program on the one hand and selecting pre programmed watering restrictions on the other hand can be inverted.

While an embodiment of a stand alone irrigation controller with selectable watering restrictions a PC based irrigation management system that implements watering restrictions and a novel method of watering turf and or landscaping to conserve water have been described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the subject invention can be further modified in arrangement and detail. For example the stand alone irrigation controller need not have a modular configuration with removable station modules. The irrigation controller could be configured to operate with decoder technology instead of requiring each valve to be separately connected to a dedicated station circuit in a station module or permanently built into the controller. The irrigation controller could have a hybrid modular decoder configuration as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 115. The irrigation controller could allow for a manual bypass of the irrigation restrictions for the limited purpose of testing individual stations. The stand alone irrigation controller could function without a control panel in place as set forth in the aforementioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 458 551. Therefore the protection afforded our invention should only be limited in accordance with the scope of the following claims.

