---

title: Video service blackout events
abstract: A method is disclosed that includes receiving a command to blackout a full screen version of content at a component of a multimedia content distribution system. The method includes updating a first entry within a control matrix to reflect that the full screen version of the content is to be blacked out. The method also includes automatically updating a second entry within the control matrix to reflect that a picture-in-picture (PIP) version of the content is to be blacked out.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08104056&OS=08104056&RS=08104056
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property, L.P.
number: 08104056
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081203
---
Media service providers such as television service providers acquire content from content providers such as television networks and distribute the content to subscribers. Some content is subject to access restrictions such as blackouts. Typically conditional access events such as blackouts are scheduled manually by a media service provider. This can make conditional access scheduling labor intensive and prone to error especially for picture in picture video services.

In a particular embodiment a method is disclosed and includes receiving a command to blackout a full screen version of content at a component of a multimedia content distribution system. The method also includes updating a first entry within a control matrix to reflect that the full screen version of the content is to be blacked out. The method also includes automatically updating a second entry within the control matrix to reflect that a picture in picture PIP version of the content is to be blacked out.

In another particular embodiment a system is disclosed that includes a user interface. The system also includes a control system operatively coupled to the user interface. The control system is adapted to receive a command to blackout a full screen version of content at a component of a multimedia content delivery platform. The control system is further adapted to update a first entry within a control matrix to reflect that the full screen version of the content is to be blacked out. The control system is adapted to automatically update a second entry within the control matrix to reflect that a picture in picture PIP version of the content is to be blacked out.

In another particular embodiment a method is disclosed that includes receiving a command to blackout a first version of content at a media distribution system. The method also includes generating first control data to blackout the first version of the content distributed by the media distribution system in a blackout geographic region. The method also includes automatically generating second control data to blackout a second version of the content distributed by the media distribution system in the blackout geographic region.

Referring to a block diagram of a particular embodiment of a system to restrict access to media content is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a plurality of integrated receiver decoders IRDs that communicate with a proxy server . Each IRD also communicates with an acquisition server A server via an encoder . The proxy server communicates with a service delivery platform SDP . Further the SDP communicates with a plurality of video head ends . Each video head end is adapted to distribute media to client devices such as a set top box or other network appliance within a particular geographical area. In one embodiment the proxy server and the SDP are included in a conditional access provisioning system of a video distribution network such as an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network. Alternatively the proxy server can be integrated with the SDP .

In a particular embodiment each IRD serves a plurality of geographic areas via the video head ends . Each IRD receives a media content stream corresponding to a particular television channel such as a video content channel or music content channel. In an illustrative embodiment the media content stream can be a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG stream that includes video content audio content other media content or a combination thereof. In addition each IRD receives a command via a control stream related to delivery of media content received via the media content stream. Each IRD is adapted to determine whether the control stream includes data indicating that the media content is subject to an access restriction such as a blackout a limitation on access to users associated with a particular subscription level a limitation on access to users who pay for media content corresponding to the media content stream or a combination thereof.

Each IRD is adapted to send its control stream to the SDP via the proxy server when the control stream includes data indicating that the media content is subject to one or more access restrictions. Further each IRD is adapted to send the media content stream to the encoder . The encoder is adapted to encode the content portion for transmission via the video distribution network by the A server that corresponds to the television channel.

The SDP is adapted to parse the control stream into data elements and to derive conditional access information from the parsed data elements. The conditional access information can include a geographical area in which the media content is to be restricted a subscriber group to whom the media content is to be restricted a start time of the restriction an end time of the restriction a type of restriction a channel or virtual channel affected by the restriction or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment a geographical area can be indicated by a geographical region code GRC . The SDP is adapted to automatically schedule a conditional access event at a video head end associated with the geographical area s in which the media content is to be restricted such as the video head end . The SDP can call a scheduling application programming interface API at the super head end SHE and interact with the scheduling API to schedule the conditional access event for main streams sent to client devices secondary streams e.g. picture in picture streams or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content is to be restricted in multiple geographical areas and the SDP can be adapted to automatically schedule the conditional access event at a plurality of video head ends such as all of the video head ends .

In a particular embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content subject to a restriction is to be replaced with substitute content. The conditional access information can identify the substitute content. The conditional access information can also identify the primary content i.e. the media content subject to the restriction a channel that would otherwise deliver the primary content or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the conditional access information can identify the primary content the substitute content or any combination thereof as one or more virtual channels. The SDP is adapted to determine an acquisition point of the substitute content such as a particular acquisition server associated with a virtual channel corresponding to the substitute content.

Additionally the SDP is adapted to automatically schedule the substitution at the SHE . In an illustrative embodiment the SDP is adapted to create a substitution table at the SHE where the substitution table maps the primary content to the substitute content. The substitution table can also indicate the acquisition point of the substitute content such as another acquisition server . For example as shown in a first substitution table for a first channel e.g. channel can indicate that a primary service e.g. ESPN provided by a first acquisition server is to be replaced with a secondary service e.g. ESPN ALT 4 provided by another fifth acquisition server. In another embodiment the substitution table can map a start time end time and channel to the substitute content.

In a particular embodiment the SDP is adapted to receive second control stream data related to television programming or other media content that is subject to the scheduled conditional access event. The SDP parses the second control stream data and derives conditional access update information from the parsed second control stream data. The conditional access update information indicates that a previously scheduled conditional access event is to be deleted or modified. For example the conditional access update information can indicate that a blackout is no longer applicable to a particular television program or that certain users can receive a blacked out program. In another example the update information can indicate that a start time of the blackout an end time of the blackout substitute content to be delivered during the blackout one or more geographical areas to which the blackout applies or any combination thereof have been updated.

The SDP is adapted to identify a previously scheduled conditional access event to which the update information applies. Further the SDP is adapted to automatically modify or delete the scheduled conditional access event at the SHE at which the conditional access event was scheduled. In a particular embodiment the SDP logs receipt of the update information. For instance a SDP database can store data indicating that update information has been received a time at which the update information was received at least a portion of the contents of the update information or a combination thereof.

In an illustrative embodiment the SDP can be adapted to determine whether the update information derived from the second control stream data indicates that substitute content associated with the conditional access event is to be modified or deleted i.e. when the conditional access event no longer applies . If the substitute content is to be modified or deleted the SDP can be adapted to automatically call a substitution API at the SHE to modify or delete a substitution table associated with the conditional access event e.g. substitution table .

Referring to a block diagram of a second particular embodiment of a system to restrict access to media content is illustrated and designated generally . The system includes a service delivery platform SDP that communicates with a video super head end SHE via a proxy system . Alternatively the proxy system can be integrated with the SDP . The SHE communicates with at least one content provider . Further the SDP communicates with a plurality of video head ends VHEs . Each of the VHEs serves media content to client devices such as set top boxes STBs of a video distribution system within a particular geographical area.

In one embodiment the content provider sends a media content stream to the SHE . If the content provider determines that the media content is subject to a conditional access restriction the content provider also sends a control stream to the SHE . The control stream includes parsable control data indicating at least one geographical area or other subscriber group for which access to the media content is to be restricted.

In an illustrative embodiment the SHE includes a plurality of integrated receiver decoders IRDs . Each IRD is coupled to one of a plurality of acquisition servers A servers . In a particular embodiment each IRD is adapted to receive a media content stream associated with a different channel or virtual channel from a content provider such as the content provider and to deliver corresponding media content to client devices via the video distribution system. In an illustrative embodiment the media content stream is a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG stream. Each IRD sends media content associated with a received media content stream to an A server to which it is coupled. Each A server can distribute the media content to one or more of the VHEs for delivery to client devices in one of a plurality of geographical areas served by the VHEs .

Further each IRD is adapted to receive a control stream related to delivery of media content received via its media content stream. Each IRD is adapted to determine whether the control stream includes data indicating that the media content associated with the media content stream is subject to one or more access restrictions such as a blackout a limitation on access to users associated with a particular subscription level a limitation on access to users who pay for media content corresponding to the media content stream or a combination thereof. The IRD is adapted to send the control stream to the SDP via the proxy system when the control stream includes data indicating that the media content is subject to one or more access restrictions.

The SDP includes processing logic and memory accessible to the processing logic . The memory includes a plurality of modules that are adapted to provide various functions of the SDP with respect to automatically provisioning conditional access with respect to media content. The modules can include data stores hardware logic instructions executable by the processing logic such as instructions included in one or more computer programs or operating systems or any combination thereof.

For example in the embodiment shown the memory includes a control module that is executable by the processing logic to receive control streams from the IRDs via the proxy system . Further the control module is executable by the processing logic to parse each control stream and to derive conditional access information from the parsed control stream. The conditional access information may include a geographical area in which the media content is to be restricted a subscriber group to which the media content is to be restricted a start time of the restriction an end time of the restriction a type of restriction a channel affected by the restriction substitute content to replace the restricted media content or any combination thereof. In an illustrative embodiment the geographical area can be indicated by a geographical region code GRC .

In the embodiment shown the memory also includes a SDP database to log receipt of control stream data indicating a conditional access event. For instance the SDP database can store data indicating that the control stream data was received a time at which the control stream data was received at least a portion of the conditional access information or any combination thereof.

In the embodiment shown the memory includes an event schedule module that is executable by the processing logic to automatically schedule a conditional access event at the SHE . Geographies may be predefined to accounts by API calls to the VHEs to group the accounts accordingly. From the VHEs the grouping data flows to the accounts in advance of a substitution event. In one embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content is to be restricted in multiple geographical areas and the event schedule module is executable by the processing logic to automatically schedule the conditional access event at the SHE . For example the media content can be subject to a blackout in multiple geographical areas. In another embodiment the event schedule module is executable by the processing logic to schedule a plurality of different types of conditional access event at the SHE . For instance the media content can be subject to a blackout in a first geographical area and restricted to paying users or users associated with a certain subscription level in another geographical area. In a particular embodiment the memory can include a VHE reference module to store data indicating which of the VHEs is associated with a particular geographical area.

In an exemplary embodiment the SDP further includes a user interface including a keyboard mouse display and or other devices through which an operator may review and or edit information passing through or resident on the SDP including information from control streams sent to the SDP from the SHE from the content provider . An operator may use the user interface to manually override automated processes instigated by the processing logic in response to control streams to fix problems that may have occurred in the automated processes or merely to monitor ongoing automated processes as desired.

In a particular embodiment the conditional access information can indicate that the media content subject to a restriction is to be replaced with substitute content. The conditional access information can identify the substitute content. The conditional access information can also identify the primary content i.e. the media content subject to the restriction a channel that would otherwise deliver the primary content or any combination thereof. The memory may include a substitute module that is executable by the processing logic to determine an acquisition point of the substitute content such as a particular acquisition server and to schedule the substitution at one or more of the video head ends .

In an illustrative embodiment the substitute module is executable by the processing logic to create a substitution table at one or more video head ends where the substitution table maps the primary content to the substitute content. The mapping may be accomplished by providing an IPTV API with one or more global unique identifiers GUIDs that identify the IPTV Services which are substitutable for one another. In another embodiment the substitution table can map a start time end time and channel to the substitute content.

In a particular embodiment the control module is executable by the processing logic to receive second control stream data related to television programming or other media content that is subject to the scheduled conditional access event. The control module is executable by the processing logic to parse the second control stream data and derive conditional access update information from the parsed second control stream data. The conditional access update information includes data indicating that a previously scheduled conditional access event is to be deleted or modified. For example the conditional access update information can indicate that a blackout is no longer applicable to a particular television program or that certain users can receive a blacked out program. In another example the update information can indicate that a start time of the blackout an end time of the blackout substitute content to be delivered during the blackout one or more geographical areas to which the blackout applies or any combination thereof have been updated.

In the embodiment shown the memory includes an update module that is executable by the processing logic to identify a previously scheduled conditional access event to which the update information applies. For instance the previously scheduled conditional access event can be retrieved from the SDP database or the conditional access update information can indicate the previously scheduled conditional access event. The update module is executable by the processing logic to automatically modify or delete the scheduled conditional access event at the SHE . In a particular embodiment the SDP database logs receipt of the update information. For instance the SDP database can store data indicating that update information has been received when the update information was received at least a portion of the contents of the update information or any combination thereof.

In an illustrative embodiment the control module is executable by the processing logic to determine whether the update information derived from the second control stream data indicates that substitute content associated with the conditional access event is to be modified or deleted i.e. when the conditional access event no longer applies . If the substitute content is to be modified or deleted the update module is executable by the processing logic to automatically call a substitution application programming interface API at the SHE to modify or delete a substitution table associated with the conditional access event.

Referring to a flow diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a method of creating a control matrix is illustrated generally at . The operator may establish a channel matrix that maps content from a particular content provider to a particular channel stream that the operator is to provide at . For example a first channel stream may be on channel one a second channel stream on channel two a third channel stream on channel three a fourth channel stream on channel four and so on. In an exemplary embodiment each particular channel stream is a full screen service for its content. For each full screen stream the operator may further establish a picture in picture PIP stream at . Thus each channel has at least two effective channels within the channel matrix namely a full screen stream and a picture in picture stream.

The operator may then link the full screen stream to the picture in picture stream for each channel stream within the channel matrix at . In an exemplary embodiment the link is a pointer that points to the picture in picture stream. Other links are also contemplated by the present disclosure. Based on the channel matrix so created the operator may create a control matrix that maps control information to each of the channels within the channel matrix at . The control matrix may then be distributed to the video head ends for distribution to the client devices such as the subscriber set top boxes of . While full screen and picture in picture streams are specifically contemplated the disclosure is not so limited. Rather this sort of linking and automatic updating may be applied to other streams sharing content or other versions of the same content such as where a first version of the content is larger than a second version of the content e.g. split screen and or the like .

Referring to an exemplary control matrix is illustrated. The control matrix includes multiple cells arranged into rows and columns . For example in the embodiment shown the control matrix is a sixty four by sixty four grid of cells . Alternatively the control matrix may be up to 32 services 256 geographies. Each cell is adapted to hold control information about an associated channel. Thus cell may correspond to the cell in the first row first column position while cell may correspond to the cell in the last row last column position. Cell may further correspond to a full screen stream service and cell may correspond to a picture in picture stream service. Note that such designations are for the sake of example and the operator may design a control matrix based on content being provided content provider requirements or other criteria as desired.

Control matrix may readily be ported to an exemplary control stream as illustrated in . However a control stream is a one dimensional element and the two dimensional control matrix of is disassembled from the two dimensional form and reassembled into a linear one dimensional form. One manner in which this reassembly may be done is to put the rows of the control matrix end to end. Thus the control stream may include cells that map to cells of the control matrix . Further groups correspond to the rows as referenced in . A metagroup of cells may form a single retune message sent to set top boxes or other network devices within the IPTV network described with reference to . As noted above set top boxes within the IPTV system are programmed to parse the control stream to determine control information about channels being streamed to the set top box. For example the set top box may be programmed to look in cell for control information about the full screen stream. Such programming may be invoked each time the customer tunes his television or set top box to the full screen stream.

By having a predefined control matrix and links between the full screen versions and picture in picture versions of content channels it may be easier to update blackout information for content as illustrated by exemplary method of . A control system of an operator e.g processing logic as programmed by control module described above with reference to receives a transmission event schedule for one or more channels from a content provider at .

The operator receives blackout information from the content provider relating to the transmission event schedule at . As noted above with reference to the content provider may initially provide this information in the form of a control stream sent to an IRD or SHE . This blackout information may be sent electronically and conform to some predetermined format that allows the control system of the operator to automatically parse the message and update the full screen entry in the control matrix with the blackout information at . For example if a content provider informs the operator that the DUKE vs. GEORGIA TECH basketball game is to be blacked out in Nebraska the operator may parse that information and update cell in the control matrix of .

The control system may then detect or refer to the link see block of and update the picture in picture entry in the control matrix at . Continuing the above example the control system updates a cell such as cell in the control matrix of . The control system may then distribute the updated control matrix to set top boxes in the control stream e.g. STBs of at . The control matrix may be distributed to set top boxes within particular geographic areas that are affected by a change or the information in the control message may have geographic information included therein such that the set top box may evaluate the geographic information and determine whether a change applies to the particular set top box.

Referring to a general diagram of an illustrative embodiment of a control stream being used to implement a blackout event is illustrated and designated generally . The control stream includes a plurality of retune messages sent for example at ten second intervals. For example the control stream includes one or more first retune messages indicating that primary media content such as media content associated with a virtual channel VC is to be delivered to a geographic area corresponding to a multicast address MA . In one embodiment one or more particular integrated receiver decoders IRDs at a video super head end can be associated with the multicast address where the IRD s are allocated to the geographic area.

In addition the control stream includes a plurality of second retune messages indicating that the geographic area corresponding to the multicast address is to receive substitute content associated with a second virtual channel beginning at a blackout start time and ending at a blackout end time . In one embodiment the second retune messages can occur within the control stream at ten second intervals beginning one minute prior to the blackout start time .

During a period between the blackout start time and the blackout end time a plurality of third retune messages indicate that the geographic area corresponding to the multicast address is to receive media content associated with the virtual channel . In addition the fourth retune messages indicate that the geographic area corresponding to the multicast address is to begin receiving media content associated with the virtual channel at the blackout end time . The fourth retune messages can occur within the control stream for example at ten second intervals beginning one minute before the blackout end time .

Thus a content provider provides its control stream to a super head end e.g. SHE of which passes the information in the control stream to service a delivery platform e.g. SDP of . Processing logic parses the control stream into a control matrix e.g. control matrix of . The control matrix is reformatted into a control stream e.g. control stream of and sent to one or more set top boxes e.g. STBs of . Because the information in the control stream is updated with some regularity as content providers provide updates as to blackout events and the like the control stream is updated and resent to the set top boxes. This process of updating and resending the control stream is illustrated by the control stream of .

In conjunction with the configuration of structure provided herein a system and method of restricting access to media content are provided in which automated software based scheduling and execution of blackouts and other conditional access events occur based on a control stream that is received and parsed at a service delivery platform or other conditional access provisioning system of a video distribution network such as an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network. In other embodiments the system and method can be applied to a cable network a satellite dish network or other video distribution network adapted to deliver video traffic via similar architectures.

Referring to an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system is shown and is designated . The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a web appliance or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide video audio or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory which can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD a projection television system a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosed embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

