---

title: Apparatus and method for providing online content service for product warranties
abstract: A data-processing system including an information inputting device for inputting one or more information; a transmitting/receiving device for transmitting/receiving the one or more information; and a processing device for processing the one or more information, the processing device including: an image processing module; a data extraction module; a data storage device; and a data tracking module; wherein the data tracking module is in operable communication with a user of the information inputting device to allow the user to organize the one or more information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051112&OS=08051112&RS=08051112
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08051112
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080422
---
The present disclosure relates to a data processing system and method and more specifically to a system and method for organizing a plurality of documents such as product warranties.

In general consumers purchase products with warranties. A warranty is an obligation that an article or service sold is as factually stated or legally implied by the seller and that often provides for a specific remedy such as repair or replacement in the event the article or service fails to meet the warranty. However it is very difficult to find the warranties or any other information related to the warranties when the product actually fails due to the fact that such papers are easily lost or misplaced by the consumer. As a result many consumers cannot take advantage of warranties that may still be in effect when a failure of a product occurs.

Typically most consumers store product warranties in shoeboxes that are discarded in closets basements or attics where they may be forgotten or even accidentally destroyed. Moreover some consumers may use a document scanning pen to scan store and transfer product warranty information onto a computer. However these computer files may be accidentally deleted or forgotten. In addition even though handheld scanners may be a convenient way to get printed text into an editable format on a computer the best devices are prohibitively expensive and cumbersome to use.

Consequently none of these methods has eliminated the inconvenience of losing one or more warranty information that many products come with which may promise repair or replacement for months or years or life of the product. Therefore it would be highly desirable to provide a data processing system and method that provides for and enables an efficient and reliable warranty document organizer.

A data processing system including an information inputting device for inputting one or more information a transmitting receiving device for transmitting receiving the one or more information and a processing device for processing the one or more information the processing device including an image processing module a data extraction module a data storage device and a data tracking module wherein the data tracking module is in operable communication with a user of the information inputting device to allow the user to organize the one or more information.

A method for organizing a plurality of documents the method including receiving one or more information via an information inputting device transmitting receiving the one or more information via a transmitting receiving device and processing the one or more information via a processing device the processing device including an image processing module a data extraction module a data storage device and a data tracking module wherein the data tracking module is in operable communication with a user of the information inputting device to allow the user to organize the one or more information.

A computer readable medium storing a set of programmable instructions configured for being executed by at least one processor for performing a method for organizing a plurality of documents including receiving one or more information via an information inputting device transmitting receiving the one or more information via a transmitting receiving device and processing the one or more information via a processing device the processing device including an image processing module a data extraction module a data storage device and a data tracking module wherein the data tracking module is in operable communication with a user of the information inputting device to allow the user to organize the one or more information.

The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure pertain to a service that is designed for home users. The exemplary embodiments provide a system and method for consumers to file their product warranty information by scanning a warranty card and a sales receipt and sending such information to the service. The service automatically extracts key information and creates a data record of the purchase. Access to the service can be accomplished through a Xerox Personal Services XPS website. XPS already has online hosted servers as well as the software to process the images and extract data. The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are designed to run as a service such as SaaS Software as a Service . SaaS is a software application delivery model where a software vendor develops a web native software application and hosts and operates either independently or through a third party the application for use by its customers over the Internet. Customers do not pay for owning the software itself but rather for using the service. That is the customers may pay a periodic fee e.g. monthly annually etc. for the right to use the software through an application programming interface API accessible over the Internet.

Therefore in the event that a product has a problem a user can access his or her folder on the XPS website and find his or her product and warranty information. The consumer is told if the product is still under warranty and can then have access to user manuals tech support sites and phone numbers. The service can also provide lists of repairmen repairwomen in the user s vicinity if the product is out of warranty. Consequently this solution combines a number of existing electronic capabilities to make personal product warranty management less expensive more accurate and efficient. These features and aspects will become better understood with regard to the following description of the exemplary embodiments.

The PDA the camera the scanner the phone and the audio visual device illustrate methods of inputting scanned information and specifically images into the PC . This is not an exhaustive list but merely an illustrative list of devices that may be used to obtain scan and transfer images to a desired destination. It is contemplated that any type of input device may be used to transfer images to a desired destination.

The PC may communicate with a server e.g. through an Internet via an ISP . The PC includes an Internet browser application that may connect to a local ISP . The ISP may be any business or organization that provides consumers or businesses access to the Internet and related Internet services.

The server is a remote server for performing services for connected clients. The remote server is can be located at a Xerox facility. The server is in operable communication with the one or more modules . In the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure there are three modules. These include the image processing module the data extraction module and the data tracking module . However a number of other modules may be contemplated to provide similar services and capabilities.

The image processing module uses Optical Character Recognition OCR to process the images inputted to the PC via the input devices. The OCR is a mechanical or electronic translation of images of handwritten typewritten or printed text usually captured by a scanner into machine editable text.

The data extraction module is used for extracting desired data from the images processed by the image processing module via the OCR. When the images are scanned they go through an OCR process and then through the data extraction process where such images are stored as metadata. The data to be extracted may be pre programmed by software or may be manually performed by the user or by an XPS technician. Furthermore many software packages such as Indicius Brainware XRCE Categorizer etc. that are used to look for and extract data from unstructured documents need to be trained with sample sets. However in the exemplary embodiments the XPS service will have already been trained with warranty documents and receipt identification capabilities.

The data tracking module is used for tracking and monitoring the desired data extracted by the data extraction module . The data tracking module permits the associated links to be discovered and all of the data that is to be reviewed by the customer for accuracy. The customer can then perform any changes that are necessary to the data that is being tracked and monitored by the data tracking module .

Once the images and data are processed by the one or more modules the images and or data are stored in the storage device . The storage device may contain one or more databases . The data stored in the database may contain the images and or the following metadata. From the customer profile the database may contain consumer name and address information. From the image of the warranty card the database may contain manufacturer product name Universal Product Code UPC code if available and product model number and serial number information. From the image of the sales receipt the database may contain date of purchase merchant name and address and warranty period information.

In addition the following information can be automatically determined by the system manufacturer Uniform Resource Locator URL warranty contact number URL to product support and URL to product user manuals.

Moreover all metadata that is extracted or discovered is presented to the consumer for verification to assure accuracy. In addition content management type software can be used to trigger events based on expiration dates. In other words the consumer can be informed during predetermined time intervals that the warranty information is about to expire and offer the consumer the option to purchase further extended warranties.

The flow diagram described in allows the consumer to access data located in a remote server and stored in one or more databases in order to update access verify and or modify information as the consumer desires. In embodiments consumers may access other document services offered by the XPS service. That is a consumer may be provided access e.g. as a paying customer to multiple document services offered by the XPS service through a single website or one or more related websites. Other user functions that are available to the end user include automatically registering the product and sending a confirmation message sending an alert email message one month can be changed by user profile or on a product by product basis before the warranty expires sending an alert message that contains a link for an extended warranty offer if appropriate sending alerts if there is a safety recall of the item and allowing users to view print or email copies of the images at any time desirable.

Therefore the XPS is a service that provides for a warranty document organizer that accepts or creates digital images of unstructured warranty documents. The service sorts categorizes and extracts data from the images using trained technology. XPS warranty document organizer stores the images metadata and categorized data for the end user. Key data that is extracted includes product model number serial number purchase date and price name of seller warranty period and contact information. The service discovers other pertinent links and also generates notices when the warranty is about to expire. In addition users can securely access their data on line from the XPS hosted server. Consequently this solution combines a number of existing electronic capabilities to make personal product warranty management less expensive more accurate and efficient.

In addition SaaS is generally associated with business software and provides a low cost alternative for businesses to obtain the same benefits of commercially licensed internally operated software without the associated complexity and high initial cost. As a result the SaaS software provides for network based access to and management of commercially available software such as described in the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. SaaS also enables activities that are managed from central locations e.g. Xerox facilities rather than at each customer s site thus enabling customers to access applications remotely via the Internet. Furthermore SaaS provides for centralized feature updating which obviates the need for downloadable patches and upgrades. Therefore SaaS applications enable the exemplary embodiments to provide services for both individual users as well as small businesses.

Benefits of the embodiments of the present disclosure for the consumer include but are not limited to a warranty registration service by merely scanning in the registration card and sales receipt easy access to warranty data model numbers user manuals etc. that are usually lost or misplaced easier method to locate model and serial numbers notification capabilities for when warranty is about to expire and prevention of warranty loss due to lost documentation. Therefore in the event that the product has a problem the user can access his or her folder on the XPS website and find his or her product information. The consumer is told if the product is still under warranty and can then have access to user manuals tech support sites and phone numbers. The service can also provide lists of repairmen in the user s vicinity if the product is out of warranty.

Benefits of the embodiments of the present disclosure for the service provider e.g. Xerox Corporation include but are not limited to providing the infrastructure necessary to create this service and implementing this service via the Internet or other network such as LAN WAN Intranet and Ethernet.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims. The claims can encompass embodiments in hardware software or combinations thereof.

