---

title: Method and system for generating an economic indicator using aggregated financial data
abstract: A method for generating an economic indicator involves obtaining financial data from multiple data sources, where the data courses include multiple business applications and/or multiple personal financial management applications. The method further involves aggregating financial data to obtain aggregated financial data, and generating the economic indicator using aggregated financial data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407118&OS=08407118&RS=08407118
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08407118
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
Because economies for example regional economies national economies global economies and cross sections thereof can be very complicated economists tend to be interested in generating economic indicators that help quantify and or predict behaviors of the economies.

As a first example consumer spending trends often provide insight into the behavior of an economy. When consumers start purchasing more of one type of product or less of another type of product that information may be used by businesses and or government entities to make informed business and or economic policy decisions. Similarly growth or decline in particular economy or economic sector may help businesses and or government entities to make informed business and or economic policy decisions.

As a second example businesses are often interested in their employees productivity levels. High productivity helps propel business growth while low productivity can hinder business growth. However businesses often struggle to correctly identify and implement effective investments in worker productivity.

As a third example businesses and government entities are often interested in the balance of import and export levels between different political entities such as cities counties states or countries. A large imbalance one way or the other may provide insight into the effectiveness of business and or economic policy decisions.

The aforementioned examples are only a subset of the various economic indicators in which businesses and government entities may be interested. Many different types of economic indicators exist that may help businesses and or government entities make informed business and or economic policy decisions.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for generating an economic indicator. The method comprises obtaining financial data from a plurality of data sources wherein the plurality of data courses comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of a plurality of business applications and a plurality of personal financial management applications aggregating financial data to obtain aggregated financial data and generating the economic indicator using aggregated financial data.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system. The system comprises an aggregate data repository configured to store aggregated financial data wherein aggregated financial data comprises financial data from a plurality of data sources and wherein the plurality of data sources comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of a plurality of business applications and a plurality of personal financial management applications. The system further comprises a data processing service operatively connected to the aggregate data repository and configured to generate an economic indicator based on aggregated financial data.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium comprising executable instructions for generating an economic indicator. Executable instructions comprise instructions to obtain financial data from a plurality of data sources wherein the plurality of data courses comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of a plurality of business applications and a plurality of personal financial management applications aggregate financial data to obtain aggregated financial data and generate the economic indicator using aggregated financial data.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for generating an economic indicator using aggregated financial data. The financial data may be aggregated from multiple business applications personal financial management applications or a combination thereof. Specific examples of economic indicators that may be generated based on aggregated financial data are discussed in detail below.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data sources include one or more business applications. Further the data sources may not be limited to business applications. For example the data sources may include one or more financial management applications for managing individual or family finances. Many different types of data sources may be used.

Business applications are software products that provide functionality for managing business operations. For example the data sources may include one or more financial management applications used to manage finances i.e. income expenses taxes and or any other type of financial data for a business. Further the data sources may include one or more payroll applications customer relationship management CRM applications shopping cart applications for example associated with the backend of a shopping website inventory tracking applications supply chain management applications project management applications production management application for example associated with large object manufacturing and or large quantity manufacturing or any other type of business application configured to provide data relating to business operations.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data provided by the data sources include purchase records obtained from personal financial management applications. Specifically one or more of the financial management applications may be used to track individual and or family expenses over time for example using electronic bank records and or manual entries based on purchase receipts. In one or more embodiments of the invention data from personal financial management applications include itemized credit card bills.

For example an itemized credit card bill may indicate the locations where products were purchased and the amounts paid for the products. For the purposes of this discussion products may include goods i.e. physical items sold by brick and mortar and or electronic retail outlets and or services i.e. professional services offered by industry specialists such as construction work tax assistance haircuts securities management laundry consultancy or any other type of professional services offered by industry specialists . The itemized credit card bill may have been entered manually into the personal financial management application or may have been transferred into the personal financial management application from a financial institution using automated processes.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data provided by the data sources include product shipping records obtained from business applications. Specifically product shipping records may indicate the number of units of a product shipped by businesses to warehouses brick and mortar stores and or any other location where products may be stored. Products represented in the product shipping records may have been shipped before being purchased after being purchased or a combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data provided by the data sources include product inventory data from business applications. Specifically inventory data indicate the number of unsold units of products being stocked by businesses. The data may also include parts purchase records that is records indicating parts purchased for the development and or manufacturing of products. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that parts purchases are often an indication of future inventory levels. Further the data may include information about days sales outstanding DSO for products sold by businesses. DSO is a measure of the amount of time between sale of a product and receipt of payment for the product.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data provided by the data sources include data about a business investment employee productivity before the business investment and employee productivity after the business investment. For example employee productivity may be measured as number of hours worked overall product output for the business for example the total number of units of the product produced realized billings or any other suitable measure of employee productivity. In one or more embodiments of the invention investments in employee productivity include tangible business assets such as office space computers office supplies and or other types of tangible business assets. Alternatively investments in employee productivity may include improved health plans year end bonuses special events such as parties or conferences training or any other type of intangible investment.

In one or more embodiments of the invention investments in productivity are identified using investment flags. Specifically in business applications data associated with the investments may flagged using some type of electronic marker such as an XML tag a field in a database or any other suitable type of flag. In one or more embodiments of the invention investment flags help identify which business practices were intended as investments in productivity and help identify the dates when the investments occurred.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data from the data sources include business to business billing data. Specifically the data may include records of bills submitted from one business to another. For example businesses often bill each other for purchases of physical goods and or business services. The businesses may be located in the same country or may be located in different countries. For businesses located in different countries business to business billing data may be adjusted to accommodate currency exchange rates between the countries. Further the data may include records of international funds transfers between different offices of a business. For example software companies financial consultancies and law firms often have offices in different countries. Such multinational entities sometimes transfer funds between offices for business or accounting purposes.

In one or more embodiments of the invention data provided by the data sources include price data. For the purposes of this discussion price data are data that describe a product and an amount charged for the product. Further if the price data are associated with an actual purchase of the product the price data may include information about the purchase such as the date of purchase the number of units of the product purchased the location where the product was purchased or any other type of information relating to the purchase. As noted above the data sources may include financial management applications. In one or more embodiments of the invention price data are obtained from entries in the financial management applications such as entries used to track expenses over time. Many different types of price data may be used depending on the type s of data sources used. Further the price data may indicate prices paid for the same product in different countries. For example the price of consumer electronics may vary significantly from one country to the next.

In one or more embodiments of the invention obtained from the data sources include data about accounts receivable associated with a business. Specifically the data may include information about monies owed to the business by a customer i.e. an individual a corporation a government entity or any other type of customer depending on the type of business and type s of product sold . The data may include invoices amounts owed dates when payments are due and or any other type of data associated with accounts receivable. Further data obtained from the data sources may include information about accounts payable associated with a business. Specifically the data may include information about monies owed by the business to suppliers. The data may include invoices amounts owed dates when payments are due and or any other type of data associated with accounts payable.

Further data transmitted to the aggregate data repository may include demographic information about businesses such as name location industry annual revenues or any other type of demographic information about the businesses. Demographic information about the businesses may be used to filter aggregated data as described below.

Further data transmitted to the aggregate data repository may include information about individuals and or families such as name age gender ethnicity occupation annual household income or any other type of demographic information about the individuals and or families. Demographic information about the individuals and or families may be used to filter aggregated data as described below.

Further in one or more embodiments the system includes one or more data processing services e.g. data processing service A data processing service B . The data processing services are configured to generate one or more economic indicators or other types of business and or finance metrics based on data stored in the aggregate data repository . Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention one or more of the data processing services are configured to generate an economic indicator or other type of metric using one or more methods described in detail below.

For example a data processing service may be configured to determine a consumer spending trend based on product purchase records determine directional growth of an economy based on inventory data determine a productivity return on a business investment determine import export flow based on business to business billing data determine a real exchange rate between two different countries or determine any other type of economic indictor and or other type of metric using aggregated data.

In view of the above in one or more embodiments the data sources may be thought of as input services for the aggregate date repository because the data sources are used to input data to the aggregate data repository . Further in one or more embodiments the data processing services may be thought of as output services for the aggregate data repository because the data processing services generate output based on the data in the aggregate data repository . Specifically the data processing services generate output in the form of economic indicators and or other types of metrics and may also be configured to generate other types of output based on data from the aggregate data repository . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is communicatively coupled with application programming interfaces APIs not shown that allow input services and or output services to interact with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregate data repository is restricted using an authentication service . Specifically the authentication service is configured to ensure that only authorized data processing services are given access to the aggregate data repository . For example the authentication service may require a data processing service to present a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential recognized as valid by the authentication service . In one or more embodiments the aggregate data repository is located in a local area network LAN and the authentication service includes a firewall protecting the LAN from unauthorized access.

Further the system may include a data filter configured to filter data provided to the data processing services. In one or more embodiments of the invention filtering the data allows for economic indictors and or other types of metrics to be customized for different demographics. For example the data may be filtered based on information about people purchasing the products such as age gender location and annual income. The data may also be filtered based on information about the businesses selling the products such as location or industry. Many different types of filtering criteria may be used. In one or more embodiments of the invention individual data processing services are authorized to access only a subset of the data in the aggregate data repository and the data filter is configured to enforce the subsets available to the data processing services. In one or more embodiments of the invention if a data processing service has access to only a subset of the data any data outside that subset are completely hidden from the data processing service.

As discussed above the data sources diagrammed in may include one or more business applications. shows a diagram of a system that includes a business application in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The business application may be a financial management application a payroll application a CRM application a shopping cart application an inventory tracking application a supply chain management application or any other type of business application configured to provide data relating to business operations.

In one or more embodiment of the invention data from the business application are stored in an application data repository . The application data repository may be a database an XML document a spreadsheet a text file or any other type of repository configured to store data associated with the business application . In one or more embodiments of the invention data stored in the application data repository include one or more types of business and or personal financial data described in detail above.

In one or more embodiments of the invention before data from the application data repository are transmitted to an aggregated data repository the data are transformed to a format compatible with the aggregate data repository . As one example if the aggregate data repository is a database the data may require normalization to conform with a database schema used by the aggregate data repository . As another example the data may require transformation to a particular XML format. Many different types of data transformation may be required depending on the implementations of the application data repository and the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention to transform the data to a compatible format the data are transmitted to a staging data repository using a data link service . In one or more embodiments the data link service is a module or plug in of the business application . Alternatively the data link service may be independent of the business application . In either case the data link service is configured to retrieve data from the application data repository and transmit the data for example over a file system and or network to the staging data repository .

Further in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to retrieve only a subset of the data available in the application data repository . For example if the application data repository is configured to store an individual s financial data the data link service may omit data that uniquely identify the individual such as a credit card number a social security number a street address a phone number or any other type of personally identifying data. Alternatively personally identifying data may be transmitted to the aggregate data repository and privacy of the data may be enforced by another component of the system such as an authentication service not shown communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention once the data are stored in the staging data repository the data are transformed to the required format by a data transformation service and the transformed data are transmitted to the aggregate data repository . Data stored in the aggregate data repository may then be used to generate an economic indicator as discussed herein.

While the system shown in includes several different components embodiments of the invention may be envisioned that omit one or more of these components. For example in one or more embodiments the data link service is configured to transmit data directly to the data transformation service . In such cases use of the staging data repository may not be required. Further the business application may be configured to generate data in a format that is already compatible with the aggregate data repository . In such cases use of the data transformation service may not be required.

Moreover the business application may be configured to store data directly in the aggregate data repository . For example the business application may be a web based application configured to use the aggregate data repository for data storage. In such cases the application data repository and data link service may not be required. Alternatively the system may be logically separated into client side and server side components. For example the business application application data repository and or data link service may be executing on an end user s computer system and the staging data repository data transformation service and or aggregate data repository may be executing on one or more other computer systems separated from the end user s computer system by a network.

Many different embodiments of the system may be envisioned that remain within the scope of the invention. Further while the system is described with respect to a business application a similar system may be envisioned that uses a financial management application for individual and or family finances.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step data are obtained from multiple data sources. As discussed above the data sources may include one or more business applications and or financial management applications for managing individual or family finances. For example the data sources may include one or more financial management applications used to manage finances for a business. Further the data sources may include one or more payroll applications CRM applications shopping cart applications inventory tracking applications supply chain management applications project management applications production management application or any other type of business application configured to provide data relating to business operations In one or more embodiments of the invention the data obtained from the data sources include price data associated with products i.e. goods and or services and may also include demographic information about businesses individuals and or families.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the data are transformed to a data format that is compatible with an aggregate data repository. For example as discussed above the data may be transformed to satisfy a particular database schema or XML format. Further as discussed above the data may be transformed using a data transformation service communicatively coupled with the aggregate data repository. In general in one or more embodiments of the invention transforming the data allows for data from multiple types of data sources to be aggregated in the aggregate data repository.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the data are aggregated. As noted above aggregating means grouping together. For example data may be grouped in one or more tables of the database cells in a spreadsheet fields of an extensible XML document or in any other aggregated format. In one or more embodiments of the invention aggregating the data helps facilitate generating an economic indicator based on data from multiple data sources.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step access to the aggregated data is restricted. Restricting access to the aggregated data involves ensuring that only authorized entities for example businesses individuals and or government entities have access to the aggregated data. For example access may be restricted by enforcing a username and or password an encrypted digital signature or any other type of authorization credential. Further access may be restricted based on a location of the aggregate data repository in a network. For example the aggregate data repository may be located in a local area network LAN and access may be restricted using a firewall that protects the LAN from unauthorized access.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregated data is restricted based on whether an entity has purchased access to the aggregated data. In other words access to the aggregated data may be sold and non paying entities may be restricted from accessing the aggregated data. For example an entity may purchase access to query using Structured Query Language SQL a report interface or any other appropriate query mechanism the aggregated data or a subset thereof. In one or more embodiments of the invention access to the aggregated data is sold using a subscription model where the entity purchases access for a limited time period or with recurring fees.

Alternatively a copy of the aggregated data or a subset thereof may be provided to the entity in an electronic storage medium. As one example aggregated data may be packaged in an electronic file and transmitted to the entity via File Transfer Protocol FTP email or any other type of electronic transmission. As another example a data set including the aggregated data or a subset thereof may be written to a portable storage medium such as a compact disc CD digital video disc DVD flash drive or any other type of portable storage medium given to the purchasing entity. Many different purchase and delivery models may be used to provide restricted access to the aggregated data. In one or more embodiments of the invention the price of access is proportional to the amount of access granted. For example access to query all of the aggregated data may cost more than access to query a subset of the aggregated data for example for a particular demographic population .

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the aggregated data are filtered. As discussed above filtering the data may allow for economic indicators to be customized for different demographics. For example the data may be filtered based on information about individuals and or families such as age gender location and annual income. The data may also be filtered based on information about businesses such as location or industry. Many different types of filtering criteria may be used. Further the aggregated data may effectively be filtered retrospectively. In other words because the aggregate data repository may include a variety of demographic data different filtering criteria may be applied at different times. As noted above traditional methods of generating economic indicators rely on samples and surveys that are significantly limited in scope and cannot be adjusted retrospectively. In one or more embodiments of the invention restricting access to the aggregated data Step also involves a type of filtering by limiting access to a particular subset of the aggregated data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step an economic indicator is generated using the aggregated data. Many different types of economic indicators exist. In one or more embodiments of the invention generating the economic indicator may involve one or more steps shown in discussed in detail below. In one or more embodiments of the invention if an entity has purchased access to the aggregated data or an entity thereof the economic indicator is generated by the purchasing entity using the aggregated data. Alternatively the economic indicator may be generated by the same entity that controls the aggregate data repository.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step access to the economic indicator is restricted. In one or more embodiments of the invention restricting access to the economic indicator involves using a username and or password an encrypted digital signature network based security two or more factor authentication or any other type of access control. Further in one or more embodiments of the invention access to the economic indicator is based on whether an entity has paid for access to the economic indicator. In other words access to the economic indicator may be sold and non paying entities may be restricted from accessing the economic indicator. For example an entity may purchase access to a one time or periodical report for example a newsletter that includes the economic indicator.

The report may be distributed by email paper copy portable storage medium FTP restricted webpage or any other physical or electronic distribution medium. In one or more embodiments of the invention the entity is granted access to an electronic interface that allows the entity or a representative thereof to run the report on demand. Alternatively reports may be generated by the same entity that controls the aggregate data repository. The report interface may also include controls to filter the aggregated data used to generate the economic indicator Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the specific filtering criteria used are based on requests by purchasing entities. Thus the reports may effectively be customized for the purchasing entities. Many different purchase and delivery models may be used to provide restricted access to the economic indicator. In one or more embodiments of the invention the price of access is proportional to the amount of access granted. For example access to economic indicators for an entire country may cost more than access to an economic indicator for an individual town or county.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step a consumer spending trend is determined based on product purchase records. For the purposes of this discussion consumer spending refers to consumer purchases of specific products or types of products and a consumer spending trend is a pattern that may be determined based on aggregate information about consumer spending.

As discussed above product purchase records are records that provide information about products purchased by consumers. Thus product purchase records may be used to determine the sales rates of specific products or types of products. Further sales rates may be tracked over time to identify a change in product sales over time. Moreover because the product purchase records may be filtered based on demographic criteria the consumer spending trend may be specific to one or more demographic criteria. For example the consumer spending trend may indicate a change in consumer spending for a particular geographic location income bracket or any other demographic criterion. Further in one or more embodiments of the invention consumer spending trends are also based on product shipping records which may be used to compare numbers of shipped products with numbers of products actually purchased.

The following are a few examples of common economic questions that may be answered using consumer spending trends. Have total expenditures increased because products cost more or are people buying more products Are people buying different types of items i.e. in terms of spending distribution now than at a previous time Are people buying more or fewer durable goods How many shipped products are actually being sold In what areas does a particular item sell well What types of consumers are most likely to purchase the product Many different types of economic questions such as the questions listed above may be answered using consumer spending trends.

Further product manufacturing may be adjusted based on a consumer spending trend. For example product manufacturing may be increased in areas where consumer spending trends indicate increasing interest in a product or decreased in areas where consumer spending trends indicate decreasing interest. Further advertising efforts may be adjusted to target the areas and or types of consumers most likely to purchase the product.

Continuing with discussion of in one or more embodiments of the invention in Step the directional growth of an economy is determined based on inventory data. As discussed above inventory data indicate the numbers of products stored by businesses that are not yet sold to consumers. Stockpiling inventory beyond historical numbers may indicate that a business is optimistic about its future sales and rapid sell offs may indicate a booming economy. Conversely decreasing inventory below historical numbers may indicate that a business is unoptimistic about its future sales and buildup of existing inventory may indicate a stagnant economy. Collectively inventory data from multiple businesses may provide a reliable big picture view of how businesses expect the economy to behave in the near or long term future. Further the data sources may include business applications used by small businesses thereby including a segment of the business population usually excluded when businesses are surveyed about their expectations.

In one or more embodiments of the invention directional growth of the economy may also be based on parts purchase records. Stockpiling of parts may indicate that the business expects to produce large numbers of products in the near future. Conversely decreased parts purchases may indicate that the business expects a slowdown in product demand.

In one or more embodiments of the invention directional growth of the economy is also based on DSO records. As discussed above DSO is a measure of the time from when a product is purchased to when the buyer pays for the product. Some buyers have relatively predictable DSO for example always paying early always paying late always paying at a particular time in the financial quarter etc. Thus changes in payment behavior for buyers with predictable DSO may indicate a change in economic outlook. For example an increase in DSO may indicate that buyers are floating funds and or anticipate a slowdown in the economy. Conversely a decrease in DSO may indicate that buyers have extra funds and or are optimistic about the economy.

Continuing with discussion of in one or more embodiments of the invention in Step a productivity return on a business investment is determined. The productivity return may be determined for an individual business or may be based on the collective i.e. aggregated productivity results of similar productivity investments for multiple businesses. In one or more embodiments of the invention the productivity return is determined by comparing employee productivity before the productivity investment with employee productivity after the productivity investment. As noted above employee productivity may be measured as number of hours worked overall product output for the business for example the total number of units of the product produced realized billings or any other suitable measure of employee productivity. An increase in employee productivity may indicate that the productivity investment was successful especially if other factors that may have affected productivity are controlled.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step an import export flow is determined based on business to business billing data. Specifically business to business billing data indicates products that are being sold from one business to another. Thus aggregated business to business billing data may be used to determine the overall import export balance between locations where different businesses are located. For example business to business billing data from businesses in different countries may be used to determine import export flow between those countries. Further the import export flow may also be based on records of international funds transfers between offices of the same business which are not typically included in business to business billing data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention in Step a real exchange rate between two countries is determined. The real exchange rate is the price difference of the same product between two different countries and may differ significantly from the currency exchange rate. Further the actual selling price of a product may differ significantly from the manufacturer s suggested retail price. In one or more embodiments of the invention aggregated price data from the two countries allow for a comparison of the average price of a product in one country versus another country thereby providing a reliable measure of the real exchange rate. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that prices may still require adjustment based on the currency exchange rate before a comparison can be done.

The aforementioned steps of provide multiple examples of economic indicators that may be generated using aggregated financial data. Other types of economic indicators may also be generated using aggregated financial data and variations of the aforementioned economic indicators may be imagined that remain within the scope of the invention. Accordingly embodiments of the invention should not be considered limited to the specific economic indicators described relative to .

In general embodiments of the invention allow for an economic indicator to be generated based on aggregated financial data. Because the financial data are obtained from multiple data sources i.e. business applications and or personal financial management applications using automated processes the financial data may be very timely and accurate. Thus economic indicators generated using the financial data may offer a high degree of reliability. Further because data gathered from the data sources may include a variety of demographic data the economic indicator may be generated and regenerated using different filtering criteria. Thus embodiments of the invention allow for economic indicators to be tailored to the specific economic interests of individuals businesses and or government entities. Moreover because parts of the aggregated data may be obtained over a period of time the filtering criteria may be modified and used to generate economic indicators for different points in time for aggregated data that are relevant to each point in time. For example the economic indicator may be generated for different months to identify a month to month trend in the economic indicator.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention for example a data processing service authentication service data filter aggregate data repository data source business application application data repository data link service staging data repository data processing service and or any other portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

