---

title: Updating download options for unavailable media content
abstract: A method provides download options for purchasable recordable media (PRM). The method includes storing a download option associated with a PRM content instance, updating the option, and transmitting the option to a digital home communication terminal. The option includes a time at which the PRM content instance is downloadable from a digital content delivery system. The update and transmit occurs in response to a change in availability of resources for transmitting the PRM content instance to a subscriber. Another method includes providing a download option to a user. The option is associated with a PRM content instance and includes an indication of a time at which the PRM content instance is available for download from the remote server. The option is updated responsive to a change in availability of the option due to a change in download resources that are associated with transmitting the PRM content instance to the subscriber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08006273&OS=08006273&RS=08006273
owner: 
number: 08006273
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080725
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. utility application entitled Graphic User Interface Alternate Download Options for Unavailable PRM Content having Ser. No. 10 008 429 filed Nov. 13 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 526 788 which is a continuation in part of copending U.S. utility applications entitled Method and Apparatus for Recordable Media Content Distribution having Ser. No. 09 896 331 filed Jun. 29 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 918 System and Method for Archiving Multiple Downloaded Recordable Media Content having Ser. No. 09 896 390 filed Jun. 29 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 512 964 and Bandwidth Allocation and Pricing System for Downloadable Media Content having Ser. No. 09 896 231 filed Jun. 29 2001 all of which are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates in general to the field of television systems and more particularly to interactive television.

With the recent advent of digital transmission technology subscriber television systems are now capable of providing many other services in addition to traditional analog broadcast video. For example two way and advanced one way communications between a subscriber and a subscriber network system headend are now possible. The home communication terminal HCT including digital HCTs or DHCTs also known as the set top box has become an important computing device for accessing video services and navigating a subscriber through a maze of services available.

There are other electronic communications systems that have been used for purchasable recordable media PRM content. For example one may be able to purchase an audio product on the Internet and then download it to a personal computer for future use. The application of electronic communications systems for the sale and delivery of applicable products can offer advantages over more conventional product sales and delivery systems such as phone ordering with parcel delivery. For example advantages may be offered such as the lower cost of product delivery or the savings of not requiring inventory floor space and retail employees. But the present electronic communications sales and delivery systems are often subject to bottlenecks that may result in undelivered media content as requested by a purchaser. Thus there is a need for dependable delivery of products by way of an electronic communications system.

The preferred embodiments of the invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and example embodiments and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those having ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore all example embodiments given herein are intended to be non limiting and among others.

One preferred embodiment of the present invention is generally implemented as part of a subscriber television system STS such as for example a digital broadband delivery system DBDS or a cable television system CTS . Hence an illustrative STS and its operation will be described initially. Other conventional data delivery systems are also included within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the present invention. shows a block diagram view of a STS which is generally a high quality reliable and integrated network system that is preferably capable of delivering video audio voice and data services to client devices such as digital home communication terminal devices DHCTs . Although depicts a high level view of a STS it should be appreciated that a plurality of STSs can tie together a plurality of regional networks into an integrated global network so that DHCT users can receive media content provided from anywhere in the world. Further it will be appreciated that the STS shown in is merely illustrative and should not be construed as implying any limitations upon the scope of the preferred embodiments of the present invention. For instance subscriber television systems also included within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention include systems not utilizing physical structured cabling for transmission such as but not limited to satellite systems. Further transmission media included within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to hybrid fiber coax HFC optical satellite radio frequency RF frequency modulated FM and microwave. Further data provided from the headend to the DHCTs and programming necessary to perform the functions discussed below will be understood to be present in the STS in accordance with the description below.

The STS preferably delivers broadcast video signals as digitally formatted signals in addition to delivering traditional broadcast analog video signals. Furthermore the system can preferably support one way broadcast services as well as both one way data services and two way media content and data services. The two way operation of the network preferably allows for user interactivity with services such as Pay Per View programming Near Video On Demand NVOD programming according to any of several known NVOD implementation methods Video on Demand VOD programming according to any of several VOD implementation methods and interactive applications such as Internet connections and purchasable recordable media PRM content services.

The STS also provides the interfaces network control transport control session control and servers to access media content from media services and distributes media content to DHCT users. Note that the terms media content and PRM content will be understood to mean the content stored and delivered throughout the STS such as movies software music etc. When it is helpful to discuss each individual movie or program etc. i.e. media content in the singular the term media content instance or PRM content instance or the like will be used. The title of that media content instance or PRM content instance will be referred to as a media content title or PRM content title. As shown in a typical STS comprises a headend hubs an HFC access network and DHCTs . It should be appreciated that although a single component e.g. a headend is illustrated in a STS can feature a plurality of any one of the illustrated components or may be configured with alternative embodiments for any one of the individual components or with yet other additional components not enumerated above. Media content provided by one or more content providers such as content provider is communicated by the content providers to one or more headends . From those headends the content is then communicated over a communications network that includes a plurality of HFC access networks only one HFC access network is illustrated . The HFC access network preferably comprises a plurality of HFC nodes each of which may serve a local geographical area. The hub connects to the HFC node through a fiber portion of the HFC access network . The HFC node is connected to a tap which in one implementation is connected to a digital home communication terminal DHCT . In other implementations the tap is connected to a network interface unit NIU which is connected to a digital home communication terminal DHCT . The NIU is normally located at the property of a user and provides a transparent interface between the HFC node and the users internal wiring. Coaxial cables are typically used to couple nodes taps and NIUs because the electrical signals can be easily repeated with RF amplifiers. As the high level operations of many of the functions of a STS are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art further high level description of the overall STS of will not be contained herein.

Referring again to the downstream direction transmission signals having been multiplexed preferably using frequency division multiplexing FDM and often referred to as in band transmission signals include Analog Transmission Signals ATSs and Digital Transmission Signals DTSs . These transmission signals carry video audio and data services. For example these transmission signals can carry television signals Internet data or any additional types of data such as Interactive Program Guide IPG data. Additionally as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art additional data can be sent with the analog video image in the Vertical Blanking Interval VBI of the video signal and stored in DHCT memory or a DHCT local physical storage device not shown . It should be appreciated however that the amount of data that can be transmitted in the VBI of the analog video signal is typically significantly less than data transmitted in DTSs .

Like the ATSs the DTSs each occupies 6 MHz of the RF spectrum. However the DTSs are preferably digital transmission signals consisting of 64 or 256 Quadrature Amplitude Modulated QAM digital signals formatted as MPEG 2 transport streams allocated in a separate frequency range. The MPEG 2 transport stream enables transmission of a plurality of DTS types over each 6 MHz RF subdivision as compared to a 6 MHz ATS . Three types of digital transport signals illustrated in include broadcast digital transmission signals carousel digital transmission signals and on demand transmission signals . MPEG 2 transport may be used to multiplex video audio and data in each of these digital transmission signals DTSs . However because MPEG 2 transport streams multiplex video audio and data to be placed in the same stream the DTSs do not necessarily have to be allocated in separate 6 MHz RF frequencies unlike the ATSs .

Continuing with the broadcast DTSs and carousel DTSs preferably function as continuous feeds for indefinite time whereas the on demand DTSs are continuous feed sessions for a limited time. Preferably all DTSs are capable of being transmitted at high data rates. The broadcast DTSs preferably carry data comprising multiple digitally compressed and formatted as MPEG 2 TV source signals and other continuously fed data information. The carousel DTSs carry broadcast data such as IPG data and data for a catalog of recordable media content that is systematically broadcast in a cycling fashion but updated and revised as need be. Thus the carousel DTSs can serve to carry high volume data such as IPG data and purchasable recordable media PRM catalog data as well as other data at high data rates. The carousel DTSs preferably carry data formatted in directories and files by a Broadcast File System BFS not shown which is used for producing and transmitting data streams throughout the subscriber television system and which provides an efficient method for delivery of application executables and application data to the DHCT . The on demand DTSs can carry particular information such as compressed video and audio pertaining to subscriber requested video services or recordable media content as well as other specialized data information. Each carousel DTS and on demand DTS is defined by a session managed by a session manager in via an MPEG 2 Digital Storage Media Command and Control DSM CC protocol.

Also shown in are Out Of Band OOB signals that provides a continuously available two way signaling path to the DHCT regardless of which in band signals are tuned to by an individual DHCT in band tuner. The DHCT may also comprise multiple in band tuners in which case the OOB signals complement the service of the set of in band tuners. The OOB signals consist of a forward data signal FDS and a reverse data signal RDS . The OOB signals can comply to any one of a number of well known transport protocols but preferably comply to either a DAVIC 1.1 Transport Protocol with FDS of 1.544 mega bits per second MBps or more using Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK modulation and an RDS of 1.544 Mbps or more using QPSK modulation or to a DOCSIS Transport Protocol with FDS of 27 Mbps using 64 QAM modulation and a RDS of 1.544 Mbps or more using QPSK modulation or 16 QAM modulation. The OOB signals provide the two way operation of the network which allows for subscriber interactivity with the services provided by the network. Therefore the DHCT preferably contains functionality somewhat similar to a networked computer i.e. a computer without a persistent storage device in addition to traditional set top box functionality as is well known in the art. Furthermore the OOB signals are not limited to a 6 MHz spectrum but generally to a smaller spectrum such as 1.5 or 3 MHz in one embodiment.

The DNCS provides management monitoring and control of the STS network elements and broadcast services provided to users. The DNCS provides control and communication functionality by monitoring the DHCTs and facilitating messaging between the DHCTs and components within the headend . When any of the communication functionality is provided by headend components other than the DNCS the DNCS indirectly provides similar functionality by providing the control and coordination to those other devices that provide the required communication functionality to enact a particular media service.

In one implementation the DNCS includes functional support for client server applications and other components in the STS with its server counterparts including BFS Server and SAM server which will be described in greater detail below. Briefly the client server application counterparts work in coordination with DNCS to effectively utilize the primary features of the interactive television system and manage the sale and delivery of among other things PRM content. Furthermore the client server application software in communication with the DNCS can effectively redirect allocation of excess VOD infrastructure capacity to facilitate maximum rate delivery of PRM content in cooperation with the PRM application client . Also in one implementation the DNCS uses a data insertion multiplexer and a data QAM to insert the in band broadcast file system BFS data into a compressed data stream for example an MPEG 2 transport stream.

The DNCS also includes a session manager and a conditional access system . The session manager preferably uses the MPEG 2 DSM CC protocol to coordinate requests for media content for example PRM content. The session manager processes user to network U N session signaling messages manages allocation of session related network resources and supports network management operations. The session manager supports exclusive services such as the PRM service by providing the signaling interface to establish maintain and release client initiated exclusive sessions. The session manager acts as a point of contact to the network for the DHCT in the network to establish individual sessions. The session manager also defines a resource descriptor structure which is used to request the network resources within a session.

The conditional access system communicates with the DHCT and the billing system to determine whether a particular subscriber is authorized to receive PRM content. If a DHCT is not authorized for PRM service the conditional access system insures that such services are not transmitted.

The PRM application server communicates via the Ethernet connection to a service application manager SAM server contained in the DNCS . Service application manager SAM server is a server component of a client server pair of components with the client component being located at the DHCT . Together the client server SAM components provide a system in which the user can access services which are identified by an application to run and one or more parameters such as particular data content specific to that service. The SAM server also manages the life cycle of the applications on the system including the definition activation and suspension of services they provide and the downloading of the applications into the DHCT as necessary. The PRM application server defines its application to the SAM server and the SAM server instructs the BFS server to add the executable code for the PRM application client to a carousel not shown for distribution to the various DHCTs in the network . In other embodiments executable code is not transferred but instead functionality is effected through other mechanisms.

The BFS server is a part of a broadcast file system that has a BFS client in each DHCT in the network . Applications on both the headend and the DHCT can access the data stored in the BFS server in a manner somewhat similar to a file system found on disc operating systems. The BFS server loads data for applications on a carousel not shown that sends data in a cyclical repeated fashion each cycle approximately the same period of time so that the DHCT that communicates a request for any particular data may receive it when the user desires the data. Thus the BFS client contained in the DHCT that receives the broadcast from the BFS server can implement the application for the user as will be described in greater detail below.

PRM content or data can reside in the PRM application server in the VOD content server or in other application servers not shown . The content manager and VOD content servers deliver MPEG 2 content to a group of QAM modulators . PRM content can reside in VOD content servers as a movie as an audio program or as an MPEG 2 private data program. The content manager is responsible for managing the content on the VOD content servers and on other servers such as PRM application server or other application servers not shown . The PRM application server utilizes the content manager and VOD content servers to deliver the data video and or audio streams that make up the PRM services. The PRM application server is in communication with the content manager and VOD content servers to effect the delivery of PRM content that resides in VOD content servers . The QAM group is actually a multiplex of QAMs that support PRM content transmission to a particular DHCT . The session manager in DNCS determines which QAM modulator has access to a particular DHCT . The QAM modulators are also responsible for encrypting the transport stream and inserting other data and information into the stream as will be described in more detail below. The QAM modulators receive the MPEG 2 transport stream from the VOD content servers and convert it to an encrypted RF signal at a specified frequency e.g. channel .

In one embodiment of the invention content manager fulfills management of VOD content and PRM content. In an alternate embodiment content manager is comprised of two entities a first content manager dedicated to VOD content management and a second manager dedicated to PRM content management.

A Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK modem is responsible for transporting the out of band IP Internet protocol datagram traffic between the distribution headend and a DHCT . Data from the QPSK modem is routed by headend router within the headend . The headend router is also responsible for delivering upstream application traffic such as a user requests for PRM content to the various application servers such as for example PRM application server .

The DHCT preferably includes at least one processor for controlling operations of the DHCT an output system for driving the television display and at least one tuner system for tuning into a particular television channel to be displayed and for sending and receiving various types of data or media content to and from the headend . In other embodiments multiple tuners can be used. The tuner system includes in one implementation an out of band tuner and upstream transmitter for bi directional QPSK data communication and a quadrature amplitude modulation QAM tuner in band for receiving television signals. It should be appreciated that the OOB tuner and upstream transmitter can be one component or in other embodiments the tuner and transmitter can be independent of each other and located separately within the DHCT . The OOB tuner and upstream transmitter enables the DHCT to interface with the network so that the DHCT can provide upstream data to the network for example via a QPSK channel that serves as an upstream OOB channel and received by a QPSK receiver in QPSK modem in headend . In this manner a subscriber can interact with the subscriber television system to request services or the data of services such as for example PRM content. Alternatively the upstream data transmission can be effected via a QAM channel with a QAM transmitter in DHCT and a QAM receiver in headend . Alternatively a telephone modem in the DHCT can be utilized for upstream data transmission. Further a headend or hub or other component located upstream in the subscriber television system may receive data from a telephone network coupled to a telephone modem and can route the upstream data to a destination internal or external to the subscriber television system.

The DHCT preferably includes a demultiplexing system comprising functionality for QAM demodulation forward error correction FEC transport demultiplexing decryption via decryptor and parsing as is well known in the art for signal processing of broadcast media content and data in the subscriber television system. Transport demultiplexing preferably includes MPEG 2 transport demultiplexing. The demultiplexing system in communication with communication interface tuner system and processor effects reception of compressed video streams compressed audio streams and compressed data streams corresponding to a selected program to be separated from other programs and or streams transported in the tuned transmission channel and to be eventually stored in secondary storage device in accordance with one embodiment of the invention as will be described in greater detail below.

The security processor is a secure element for performing security and conditional access related functions. More particularly the security processor functions to authorize the DHCT of a paying subscriber to execute specialized functionality of the DHCT such as receiving and decrypting or descrambling encrypted or scrambled media content and other data sent from a remote device. Security processor preferably includes a microprocessor and a memory that only the microprocessor of the security processor may access. Preferably security processor is contained in a tamper proof package. With reference to in one implementation encryption is applied to the data stream of the requested media content for example the respective PRM content at the QAM group at the headend according to encryption methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. An encryption component resident in the QAM group in the headend and under the direction of the DNCS encrypts for example MPEG 2 transport stream packets used to transmit the PRM content. The encrypted PRM content also includes in one embodiment entitlement control messages that are recognized by the security processor at the DHCT as information needed to decrypt the encrypted PRM content. Security processor preferably stores authorization information wherein the authorization information indicates that the subscriber is entitled to access the PRM content. The authorization information is obtained from one or more entitlement messages sent by the headend after or concurrently with initialization of the DHCT into a purchased service. If the authorization information indicates that the subscriber is entitled to the PRM content security processor generates a code word or key based on the authorization information and the received entitlement control message and the security processor uses this key to decrypt the encrypted PRM content at the decryptor .

Additionally a receiver receives externally generated information such as user inputs or commands from other devices. The DHCT may also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces also called communication ports and for receiving and or transmitting data to other devices. For example communication ports can be configured as USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet for connection to a computer IEEE 1394 for connection to media devices in an entertainment center or as serial and or parallel data ports such as integrated drive electronics IDE or small computer system interface SCSI port. The user inputs may be for example provided by a computer or transmitter with buttons or keys located either on the exterior of the terminal or by a hand held remote control device or keyboard that includes user actuated buttons or the user inputs may be aural.

Returning to in one implementation the DHCT includes system memory which includes FLASH memory and dynamic random access memory DRAM for storing various applications modules and data for execution and use by the processor . Basic functionality of the DHCT is provided by an operating system that is primarily stored in FLASH memory . Among other elements the operating system includes at least one resource manager that provides an interface to resources of the DHCT such as for example computing resources. An application referred to as a navigator is also resident in FLASH memory for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . The navigator registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment decrement last channel favorite channel etc. The navigator also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to DHCT functions such as for example blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu.

The FLASH memory also contains a platform library . The platform library is a collection of utilities useful to applications such as a timer manager a compression manager a configuration manager an HTML parser a database manager a widget toolkit a string manager and other utilities not shown . These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces APIs as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library that are shown in are a window manager and a service application manager client SAM .

The window manager provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager in the DHCT is responsible for as directed by one or more applications implementing the creation display and de allocation of the limited DHCT screen display resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions or windows. The window manager also maintains among other things a user input registry in DRAM . When a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse the user input registry is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order. As an application is executed it registers a request to receive certain user input keys or commands. When the user presses a key corresponding to one of the commands on the remote control device the command is received by the receiver and relayed to the processor . The processor dispatches the event to the operating system where it is forwarded to the window manager which ultimately accesses the user input registry and routes data corresponding to the incoming command to the appropriate application.

The client SAM is a client component of a client server pair of components with the server component being located on the headend preferably in the DNCS . A SAM database i.e. structured data such as a database or data structure in DRAM includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Herein database will refer to a database structured data or other data structures as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Many services can be defined using the same application component with different parameters. Examples of services include without limitation and in accordance with one implementation presenting television programs available through a WatchTV application pay per view events available through a PPV application digital music video on demand available through a VOD application purchasable recordable media PRM services via PRM application client and an interactive program guide available through IPG application . In general the identification of a service includes the identification of an executable application that provides the service along with a set of application dependent parameters that indicate to the application the service to be provided. For example a service of presenting a television program could be executed by WatchTV application with a set of parameters specifying the HBO to view HBO or with a separate set of parameters to view CNN. Each association of the application component tune video and one parameter component HBO or CNN represents a particular service that has a unique service I.D. The client SAM also interfaces with the resource manager as discussed below to control resources of the DHCT .

Application clients or applications can also be downloaded into DRAM at the request of the client SAM preferably in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend . In one implementation DRAM contains a video on demand application VOD an e mail application a PRM application and a web browser application among others. It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for one embodiment of the invention. Furthermore one or more DRAM based applications may as an alternative embodiment be resident in FLASH memory . These applications and others provided by the subscriber television system operator are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.

In one implementation applications executing on the DHCT work with the navigator by abiding by several guidelines. First an application or application client utilizes the client SAM for the provision activation and suspension of services. Second an application shares DHCT resources with other applications and abides by the resource management policies of the client SAM the operating system and the DHCT . Third an application handles situations where resources are only available with navigator intervention. Fourth when an application loses service authorization while providing a service the application suspends the service via the SAM the navigator will reactivate an individual service application when it later becomes authorized . Finally an application is designed to not have access to certain user input keys reserved by the navigator i.e. power channel volume etc. .

An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system OS component or to a client platform component or to an application client or to respective parts thereof can reside in and execute out of DRAM and or FLASH memory . Likewise data input into or output from any executable program can reside in DRAM or FLASH memory . Furthermore an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an OS component or to a client platform component or to an application client or to respective parts thereof can reside in FLASH memory or in a local storage device coupled to DHCT and can be transferred into DRAM for execution. Likewise data input for an executable program can reside in FLASH memory or a storage device for example storage device and can be transferred into DRAM for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition data output by an executable program can be written into DRAM by an executable program or algorithm and can be transferred into FLASH memory or into a storage device for storage purposes.

In one embodiment the DHCT includes a primary storage device and a secondary storage device . The ability to record programming on the primary storage device provides a convenient method to temporarily buffer programming to fit a viewing schedule however in accordance with one embodiment for economic reasons the DHCT may have a limited amount of primary storage. In one implementation based on for example existing VCR usage patterns there will be many occasions when the user will want to save or archive programs on the secondary storage device for later viewing or archive the programs for later reference. The primary storage device is preferably internal to DHCT and in electrical communication to an internal main bus for communication with other DHCT elements through a data interface implemented as a SCSI or IDE interface. In other embodiments the primary storage device can be externally connected to and thus removable from the DHCT via a communication port for example or that is configured as a SCSI or an IDE interface. The primary storage device is preferably a hard disk drive. The primary storage device preferably exhibits fast seek time and high data transfer rates properties and its storage medium is preferably non removable such as in the case of a hard disk drive. Because the amount of data in one or more downloaded instances of PRM content typically surpasses the memory space allocated for application data in memory and because the primary storage device features sufficiently large storage capacity the primary storage device serves in one implementation as a large repository or cache for downloaded PRM content. Alternatively memory may be large enough and fast enough to accommodate data transfers without the need for the primary storage device .

In one implementation under the auspices of the real time operating system executed by processor and in coordination with PRM application client downloaded PRM content and or data is received in DHCT via communications interface and stored in a temporary buffer not shown in memory . Herein PRM content and other media content will be understood to also refer to other types of data in addition to or instead of media content. The temporary buffer is implemented and managed to enable data transfers from the temporary buffer to the primary storage device in concert with the insertion of a newly arriving PRM content into the temporary buffer. The fast access time and high data transfer rate characteristics of primary storage device enables PRM content to be read from the temporary buffer in memory and written to the storage medium of primary storage device in a sufficiently fast manner. Orchestration of multiple simultaneous data transfer operations is effected so that while PRM content is being transferred from memory to primary storage device new PRM content is received and stored in the temporary buffer. The coordination of data transfers and lower latency characteristics of primary storage device enable PRM content to be received by DHCT at high data rates. The primary storage device functions to store PRM content that is received by the DHCT from the headend on an interim basis.

For permanent or semi permanent storage the secondary storage device comprises a storage media drive internally or externally connected to DHCT in a similar fashion as the primary storage device but featuring at least one high capacity removable storage medium and in one implementation slower seek time and lower data transfer rates characteristics. The secondary storage device is preferably a multiple compact disc CD drive or multiple digital video disc DVD carousel or magazine drive that at least has write capability but may also have read capability among other capabilities. Alternatively the secondary storage device may be a single CD drive or DVD drive with at least write capability but may also have read capability among other capabilities or the secondary storage device can be a video recorder VCR or D VCR or other data recorder. Alternatively the carousel may be a magazine type. In one implementation the PRM content that is received and stored on the primary storage device is transferred by way of memory to the secondary storage device wherein it is written to one or more removable media residing in the secondary storage device . The transfer of PRM content from primary storage device to secondary storage device can occur concurrently to the download of the respective PRM content in a coordinated sequential fashion or after the respective PRM content has been completely received and stored in the primary storage device . In the former case a second temporary buffer not shown in memory is utilized to implement the transfer of PRM content from the primary storage device to secondary storage device . Given its faster seek time and higher data transfer rate characteristics primary storage device preferably operates faster than the secondary storage device . Alternatively PRM content is transferred from memory to the secondary storage device with higher data rate transfer characteristics or yet in other embodiments PRM content is transferred from a remote server or other remote device to a DHCT communication port and then directly to the secondary storage device .

In one embodiment media content including PRM content is first recorded stored in a primary data buffer not shown but for example in primary storage device and indexed by content ID and record date time information i.e. meta data . The minimum content ID information collected is the originating channel number but could include program ID PID or other media content and media content description information. The record date time information is simply the date time the recording was made and is used by the system for data management purge and can also be used by the subscriber via archiving mechanisms of the PRM application as one of several methods to locate previously recorded media content. The media content recorded in the primary buffer is available for viewing and disposition by the subscriber. Media content can be viewed deleted or spooled along with the data accessible by universal or widely adopted access and naming conventions e.g. as is characteristically in meta data to a secondary buffer not shown but for instance in secondary storage device for longer term storage and playback. Media content left in the primary buffer are subject to be deleted i.e. the associated disk space made writeable by new media content. In one embodiment the secondary buffer is located on removable media that can be stored for future playback.

Also as shown in the DHCT preferably includes access to a printer either connected locally to the DHCT or via a home communication network via communication port . In one implementation the printer prints labels to be applied to the removable media i.e. CDs or DVDs of the secondary storage device . Preferably these labels convey at least verification of purchase and authenticity of the data written to the media. Thus in one implementation labels are printed by the printer as a result of an execution signal received by the printer from the PRM application client as a result of an authorized purchase of PRM content in which authorization was granted from the headend . Alternatively DHCT may operate without the printer .

The PRM application client configures the DHCT for the download purchase and billing of PRM content including configuring the DHCT for receipt of trial and impulse purchases of PRM content. The PRM application client preferably is downloaded into DRAM from the headend . Alternatively the PRM application client may be resident in FLASH memory . To offer PRM service in one implementation the subscriber television system operator assigns a portion of the downstream and upstream bandwidth capacity in the subscriber television system to be dedicated for transmission of PRM content. The amount of bandwidth capacity that can be allocated to the PRM service is finite. Grants for requests to download i.e. transmit PRM content may be limited during peak time periods that correspond to high bandwidth consumption by a plurality of other services. On the other hand off peak time periods may feature unused bandwidth capacity intended for other services that can be repossessed for downloading of PRM content.

In one embodiment the amount of bandwidth capacity allocated for PRM service varies throughout time to reflect bandwidth consumption by a plurality of bandwidth consuming services including but not limited to VOD services. During peak periods of other bandwidth consuming services such as for example video on demand VOD the amount of bandwidth capacity allocated to the PRM service is less than during the off peak periods. Consequently the duration for downloading a PRM content instance during peak periods is typically longer than the duration for downloading a PRM content instance during off peak periods. For example VOD off peak periods may run from 6 00 AM to 11 00 AM during the first week of May. Accordingly the DNCS at the headend will allot bandwidth for downloading PRM content by repossessing the off peak unused bandwidth assigned to video on demand services via a plurality of DTSs .

In one embodiment referring to under coordination and communication between content manager DNCS and PRM application server PRM content is transferred from PRM application server or other application servers not shown to VOD content server via Ethernet connection to effect PRM content delivery over repossessed unused bandwidth intended for VOD services. The DNCS communicates the frequency where unused bandwidth is repossessed to subscriber DHCTs requesting PRM services i.e. subscribers who have elected downloads of PRM content during these times resulting in the tuner system of a requesting DHCT to tune to the corresponding frequency to receive the downloadable PRM content.

In another embodiment of the invention again referring to under coordination and communication between content manager DNCS BFS and PRM application server purchased PRM content that resides in the PRM application server or in other application servers are transmitted for product delivery from the server wherein media content resides to the BFS server via Ethernet connection . A particular PRM content instance may reside indefinitely in BFS server due to the high demand of that particular content or content instance or temporarily during times of unused BFS bandwidth. In another embodiment introduction of new media content releases such as games or audio content may reside in the BFS server for a finite period such as a month starting from their introduction time. Alternatively PRM content may reside in a BFS server for periods of times in which BFS server exhibits unused bandwidth capacity. Thus the PRM application server employs available bandwidth capacity using in band or out of band services or a combination thereof. Numerous unique combinations of PRM content delivery may be employed when lacking bandwidth resources.

According to one implementation bandwidth allocation for PRM service is managed according to a series of recurring sub schedules consisting of a plurality of non overlapping time intervals as illustrated in . N sub schedules are illustrated in with the understanding that a plurality of sub schedules may appear between sub schedule and sub schedule N. Time intervals are demarcated by time marks etc. on horizontal time axis and represent times within a 24 hour period. The interval between these time marks such as between time marks and represent a period during the 24 hour period for example 2 00 AM to 5 00 AM. The time mark continuing the example would represent 9 00 AM and thus this interval will span 4 hours time mark which is 9 00 AM minus time mark 5 00 AM equals 4 hours . The corresponding bandwidth allotted during these time intervals is represented by the blocks over the corresponding time intervals such as block over the second time interval bordered between time marks and . Allocated bandwidth goes from for example zero at the intersection point of the horizontal time axis and vertical bandwidth axis in sub schedule to increasing bandwidth when advancing up from zero at intersection . Preferably the time intervals vary in length and are established with demarcation according to collected historical data of bandwidth consumption patterns for a plurality of services. Allocation of bandwidth capacity may vary between one time interval to the next. Pricing for each respective PRM content instance may or may not vary in each of the respective time intervals according to in one implementation whether the time interval is a peak period or not. For example during peak periods such as 6 00 to 11 00 P.M. of the week nights the recurring schedule may exhibit higher pricing for PRM services whereas during certain low demand time periods such as 6 00 to 11 00 A.M of the weekend days the pricing will be lower. As disclosed below other factors such as demand for new releases and popular media content may also influence pricing. Therefore allocation of bandwidth capacity for PRM services can be configured to adapt in a time specific manner according to a plan.

The allocated bandwidth PRM services can be configured to switch as time progresses from a first allocation sub schedule to a second allocation sub schedule according to a main schedule that specifies the time interval when each of two or more sub schedules is to be active as illustrated in . As noted in the plan may consist in one embodiment of scheduling for the year with multiple schedules further administered with fewer schedules on a per week basis and administered with even fewer schedules on a daily basis . For example only one configurable sub schedule is active at a time throughout the configurable recurring schedule but a first configurable sub schedule may be active throughout one or more distinct and non overlapping time intervals of the configurable recurring schedule. The recurrence of the schedule is configured to one of a plurality of time periods such as a weekly daily or a monthly recurring schedule.

According to another possible bandwidth allocation schedule a multiplicity of time adaptive schedules for each of a multiplicity of recurring schedule choices are pre configured. In this embodiment the cable system operator may monitor the bandwidth and PRM service usage and be given the option of manually implementing one of the pre configured allocation schedules without following a plan.

Alternatively the DNCS may automatically monitor bandwidth usage and automatically select one of the pre configured schedules. For instance six different configurations may be available for time adaptive management of the bandwidth allocated for PRM services for a daily recurring schedule. On the other hand more than six different arrangements may be necessary when implementing time adaptive bandwidth management on a weekly recurring schedule.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the user is presented with an interactive program guide IPG which has PRM icons next to varied media content selections suggesting to the user the availability of a downloadable and recordable option for those selections. The icons and their screen coordinates can be stored locally as an attribute in each program i.e. media content record like stereo or second audio program SAP attributes. The program records can be stored in a database in the DHCT for example an IPG database or the PRM database . Alternatively the program records can be maintained at the headend . Any application can display the icon after for example the program title in the application graphical user interface GUI presentation e.g. IPG . For example selections Saving Private Ryan and American History under the PPV category have icon CD DVD next to them suggesting to the user that these selections are available for downloading to a recordable medium such as a CD or DVD. In another embodiment the user may be presented with a service guide option such as in the example IPG depicted in . Upon selecting the service guide option the user is presented with service selections in a service guide such as example service guide as illustrated in . Alternatively the PRM service may be a selectable service entity as illustrated in example service guide of . Selecting the PRM service from the example service guide may present various media content options that are purchasable recorded media content categorized for example in media content categories such as music movies software etc.

Once the user has decided on a media content selection for downloading either by entering a selection in an IPG a service guide or during the presentation of a particular media content instance as part of an impulse purchase the user is presented with an example purchase screen as illustrated in . In one embodiment this purchase screen may be invoked as a mini program located within the PRM application called by another application for example during a VOD session when the user has selected the purchase option over the rental option or during a media content instance presentation from a service upon the user requesting an impulse buy. Alternatively PRM application functionality may exist as a sub routine within the current media service application in session. Alternatively PRM application functionality may exist as software in the headend . Purchase screen includes title header identifying the media service from which the PRM content instance will be purchased. Subtitle header suggests the purpose of the purchase screen which is to select download and price options. The reduced screen area displays an image from the media content instance to be purchased. Assuming that the movie selection was Titanic a picture of a representative scene for the highlighted movie may be presented. Similarly pictures of representative spreadsheets from a software product selected may be displayed or a picture of a song artist may be displayed for the music selection all mentioned by way of example. Information section contains some characterizing information about the media content purchase including but not limited to media content title date of composition rating download time and available purchase window. Content quality index provides the user with content quality options such as for example high definition television or standard definition surround sound etc. A higher quality option may require additional consumption of system resources.

As with other user interface screens described previously the user preferably advances highlight block over a desired content quality option of the content quality index by using left scroll arrow or right scroll arrow . Selections preferably advance until an end is reached in the list or alternatively selections may wrap around in a manner whereby the selections repeat themselves. Download option list contains download options. The user advances the highlight block over the desired download option by using up arrow and down arrow and a corresponding price for that option and content quality is displayed in the price block . Pricing for PRM content and the planning and or scheduling of bandwidth are inherently related as the price structure will depend on among other factors the time of the download and the duration of the download. In a subscriber television system that markets PRM content with a plurality of prices a first subscriber may be willing to pay a premium to immediately download a PRM content instance that is purchased during a peak period. A second subscriber may pay a lesser purchase fee when purchasing a PRM content instance during a peak period but selecting to download the purchased PRM content instance at a later time corresponding to an off peak period.

In one embodiment the PRM service offers a plurality of prices for a PRM content instance and each respective price is associated with a different downloading time and a download duration. The price assigned to each available download option may depend on a number of factors. Demand for a PRM content instances such as for new releases and popular media content instances may influence pricing. The amount of bandwidth consumed to download the PRM content instance and hence the download duration the time of day the day of the week weekday weekend or holiday and the amount of time that the subscriber has to wait until the downloading operation starts also influence the price. Other factors that influence pricing of a PRM content instance include the PRM content type e.g. audio movie or game the PRM content quality e.g. CD quality or surround sound quality audio standard or high definition picture quality and the delivery mode e.g. repossessed VOD excess bandwidth or via BFS services . In the example purchase screen of the user highlights an immediate download option but other options not shown include downloads with a duration ending after a defined period e.g. 1 hour beginning from the download selection and purchase of the PRM content and delayed download starts for subsequent immediate or extended duration for example. Furthering this example the user has indicated a desire for standard definition video with standard sound as illustrated by the option within highlight block but other content quality options can be scrolled to and selected. Price block shows that the resultant price for this download configuration is 5.99. Other download options can be presented as the user scrolls through the list including lower priced downloads during traditional off peak VOD time periods e.g. early morning trickle downloads i.e. extended duration downloads downloads that have a delayed start but are immediate or are extended or downloads with varying quality levels.

Other features illustrated in the example purchase screen of include interactive mechanisms for the user. The select button enables the user to purchase the desired selection. The user may select the B more movie information button to learn more details about the movie the user is about to purchase. The user may also select the C movie purchases button to return to the main media content screen for example the VOD catalog screen as illustrated in to consider other movie purchases.

The PRM application client and the PRM application server communicate via system communication resources and functionality extended via communication with DNCS . The PRM application client provides for a user interface for specification of downloading options in communication and cooperation with PRM application server and in cooperation with other client applications for example VOD and PPV and Music applications as described above. Alternatively the user interface may be provided from the headend . The information provided on PRM user interface screens such as the purchase screen is supported by the PRM database . Similar to an IPG application that has an IPG database of records in which program information is supported by client server IPG counterparts the PRM application client employs the PRM database of records that comprises PRM content information pertaining to PRM content for presentation to a subscriber. The PRM database contains sufficient information for the presentation of available PRM content at the current time and for subsequent periods. The PRM content information comprises data organized into records of the PRM database with record fields containing but not limited to information such as PRM content title PRM content description PRM genre release year casts or performers list ratings information and play duration for each PRM content instance. PRM database also comprises of downloadable content information as well as information comprising downloadable options for a plurality of intervals starting with the interval corresponding to the current time. Pricing information associated with a downloadable option constitutes another part of PRM database to facilitate pricing updates throughout the progression of time. Alternatively pricing information may reflect association with PRM content title i.e. each instance as well and a price may be associated with each PRM title and downloadable option pair. Downloadable options for a particular interval are displayable in a purchase screen such as purchase screen . Since the downloadable options available in a first interval may be different from the downloadable options for a second interval PRM client dynamically adapts displayed information according to available download options as the user navigates throughout different intervals. Downloadable content information downloadable options information and pricing information may be separate structures of PRM database or one or any combination thereof. The effective window of calendar days in which respective PRM content is purchasable may also be included. Additional information may be included in aggregate fields to denote a PRM content instance rating and consequently support invoking parental control of media content via the PIN entry screen. Other fields designate information about the person that purchased and recorded the media content instance the seller the date purchased the date recorded and the method of sale i.e. PRM purchase .

PRM content information associated with PRM content is transmitted on a regular or periodic basis from PRM application server to one or more DHCTs . The PRM application server in communication with PRM application client effects updates to the PRM database stored in memory or in a storage device such as storage device of DHCT . PRM application client reads PRM database records and processes them into a displayable representation as part of a GUI presentation displayed on a television or similar display device for presentation to a subscriber. As described above PRM content information may comprise descriptive information to populate the entries of a PRM guide a service guide or an IPG presentation with the corresponding PRM fields that are presented to the subscriber via a GUI from which a subscriber can select and request additional descriptive information about respective PRM content. Hence per PRM content in the displayed presentation to the subscriber the subscriber can retrieve and view and hear if applicable information specific to a PRM content title and proceed to purchase specific PRM content i.e. one or more PRM content instances .

Considering the download options such as those illustrated in the purchase screen for example communication between PRM server and PRM application effects PRM application to omit an unavailable download option or add an available option in the set of download options . Based on information received from PRM server PRM application interprets the information and accordingly adapts the displayed options presented to the user. Received information includes available downloadable options for each of a plurality of intervals starting with an interval demarcated with a start time equal to the current time and spanning into subsequent future intervals. Availability of download options for intervals in the future can vary as subscribers schedule download options and possibly exhaust network resources for a particular download option during an interval. On the other hand a particular download option that is unavailable for a future interval becomes available to a second subscriber when a first subscriber cancels a scheduled download option and indirectly return network resources to fulfill the particular download option requested by second subscriber.

In one embodiment the PRM server in communication with the DNCS update the planning and scheduling mechanism as described in association with throughout the progression of time to reflect availability of download options for the plurality of intervals and this information is transmitted from PRM server to PRM application . As a non limiting example the updated information for adapting the download options is transmitted by employing the messaging and signaling capabilities of the DNCS and the BFS server is employed to deliver the updated information. In one embodiment the updates are performed on a periodic schedule ahead of the start time of the next predetermined interval to allow sufficient time for PRM application to present the most recent availability of download options to a user. As a non limiting example interval can start on 10 minute increments and updates to download options can transpire 5 minutes before each interval and thus also 10 minutes apart . Updates to downloadable options may also update pricing information for the respective downloadable option to reflect supply and demand. In an alternate embodiment updates to download options availability are conducted by PRM server in communication with DNCS upon each requested download grant to a first DHCT but transmitted to a second DHCT upon a subsequent download request generated by second DHCT .

The download request of the user as selected for example through the purchase screen of or unavailable barkers as will be discussed below can be characterized in several ways. For example the download type is one characterization. The download type refers to the manner in which the download is accomplished for example either as a file via out of band transmission e.g. via BFS server a file via in band transmission or an on demand session via in band transmission. Further characterization involves the repository that stores the requested content in headend . For example downloadable content may reside in VOD content server or be placed in VOD content server for the duration of the download to effect an on demand in band transmission. Downloadable content can reside in BFS server or be placed there throughout the duration of the download. Other characterizations include the bandwidth required to effect the download type the start time when the subscriber wants to begin the download of the selected PRM content and the span of time i.e. duration of the download beginning from the start time. The DNCS attempts to allocate and assign resources at the selected start time and for the duration required to fulfill the PRM download request from the headend to the DHCT . As a non limiting example network resources i.e. download resources to effect a download option include downstream bandwidth signaling support and server storage. A download option can be further characterized as a deterministic versus non deterministic transmission. Transmission of content throughout pockets of time when network resources become available to effect part of the download constitutes a non deterministic transmission. The user can be notified upon completion of the download for example with an audible signal a displayed graphical message on TV or a displayed code in the front panel of DHCT .

In one implementation the user requests PRM content through the purchase screen or a similar screen for purchasing PRM content with different options as described above and the DNCS attempts to allocate resources to provide the download of the requested PRM content. For a scheduled download the DNCS queries the application servers of the headend to determine if resources are available to fulfill the scheduled download that the subscriber is requesting and provide notice to the user if service was unavailable. Further the DNCS can also detect PRM service interruptions that may occur during a download such as in the case of an emergency or network malfunction. In one implementation where VOD excess repossessed bandwidth capacity is employed to fulfill a PRM content instance purchase request and with continued reference to a session between the DHCT and the PRM application server is set throughout the course of downloading the PRM content instance. Upon the subscriber purchasing a PRM content instance for a price via the displayed user interface i.e. the subscriber enters input via an input device and such input may comprise a password or PIN to authenticate authorization to purchase the PRM content instance as described above in association with a purchase transaction is executed by the processor as configured by the PRM application that in one implementation causes a session to be set up between subscriber television system resources to the DHCT .

As facilitated by session manager in DNCS a session is a logical entity used to define a connection between the DHCT and the VOD content server and the resources used to maintain that connection in the subscriber television system. Session manager coordinates and effects the signaling required to implement the session which is preferably defined by the MPEG 2 standard ISO IEC 13818 6 IS MPEG 2 DSM CC . Upon a session setup request generated by the DHCT usually in response to a request from a subscriber the DNCS verifies the eligibility of the DHCT to receive the PRM service. The amount of bandwidth that will be reserved for the duration of the PRM service session is communicated to the relevant servers and headend components. Via the messaging capabilities of DNCS the PRM application server sends a message to the DHCT that indicates that it is ready to begin delivering the video content using the resources allocated. The DHCT receives information in the message identifying the QAM modulator that is transmitting the video content and hence where to tune to receive the requested content and the bandwidth allocated to deliver the service. After a session has been established the DHCT communicates directly with the server in which the content resides as identified to DHCT by PRM application server to facilitate delivery of the requested PRM service. In certain instances PRM application server may contain the requested content. Throughout the course of time that a PRM service is active further messaging is conducted between the respective DHCT receiving the PRM content and the PRM application server to monitor the status of the session as provisioned by the signaling and messaging mechanisms and capabilities in the network. In one implementation PRM content is delivered via the BFS server where a session need not be established. However the DNCS allocates resources for the download of requested PRM content whether a session set up is required or not for the duration of time required to effect the download. In one embodiment the download is effected in a series of intervals scheduled throughout pockets of time for which network resources are projected to be available or as they become available.

The PRM application provides for a plurality of GUIs when PRM content selected by a user in one of the PRM content purchase screens e.g. example screen display in is unavailable. The GUI screens that are prompted when PRM content is unavailable are prompted using different information than the information that is used for the initial PRM purchase screens. For example the download options list provides the user with a list of options anticipated via the planning and scheduling mechanisms discussed in association with . That is options are based on a projected bandwidth usage peak times etc. that are all factors relevant to furnishing the GUI download options list of . Nevertheless projected versus actual resource availability can differ throughout the course of time or at different instances throughout the course of time. For actual PRM service consumption resource allocation for the requested PRM content delivered according to download options selected via the purchase screen has to be allocated and assigned by the DNCS to the subscriber for consumption and thus the PRM application waits for a grant acknowledgement from the DNCS . Thus when a subscriber selects a download option mechanisms are put into effect which may result in the identification of insufficient resources to effect the PRM download as initially requested by the subscriber.

As indicated above the PRM application client will receive notice from the DNCS when the resources necessary to fulfill the requested download cannot be met. The PRM application client will responsively generate an unavailable service barker comprising a choice of alternate download options as will be described below in association with . Alternatively the unavailable service barker can be generated at the headend . are screen diagrams depicting example unavailable service barker screens that provide the user with a notice of unavailability of requested PRM service and alternative download options in the event of the service unavailability. As described above the DNCS upon receiving a request that resources could not be allocated during the scheduled time requested determines when the download can be available and forwards these options to the PRM application client for presentation to the user via a GUI presented in one implementation as an unavailable service barker. is a screen diagram depicting an example barker screen resulting when a particular subscriber request for PRM content cannot be fulfilled. For this example and others that follow assume the highlighted user download selection made in the example purchase screen of with the understanding that similar mechanisms are employed to present alternate download options when PRM content associated with a different initial download option is selected. Top portion contains a heading describing the problem to the user a bottom portion illustrating relevant navigation button s available on the remote control device for interacting with the example barker screen and a top center portion which provides the user with a message for example SORRY PRM SERVICE IS CURRENTLY UNAVAILABLE FOR YOUR SCHEDULED 10 00 DOWNLOAD. SELECT AN AVAILABLE OPTION OR C TO CANCEL . The user may use up arrow or down arrow to advance the highlighted box over the desired download option from download options list . The user may then enter their selection by pressing the select button . In this example barker screen the user has scrolled through the download options list for download options that provide the initially requested PRM content at an earlier time.

Download option list provides the user with a list of available download options the content quality e.g. high definition television versus standard definition if different from the content quality initially selected and price if different from the price of the initial selection . The download options will be generated using information stored in the PRM database for PRM application similar to the database retrieval and presentation mechanisms employed to generate the initial PRM content purchase screen e.g. purchase screen of . Alternatively content quality and price can always be displayed. Alternatively a screen may be presented such that the user is presented with a button to select alternative download options from purchase screens such as for example purchase screen . Also as described above there exists a variety of information collected in the PRM database that can be used for display presentation to the user. In this example the user has scrolled through the list to find that the PRM content can be downloaded at an earlier time than the time that the user initially requested. The screen display may present the alternate options at the same price or at a different price or no price depending on the several pricing factors discussed above in association with the purchase screen of .

The DNCS operating software and the PRM application client which comprise an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM magnetic a read only memory ROM magnetic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory magnetic an optical fiber optical or a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

It is emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of the implementations among others that are merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications and variations may be made to the embodiments of the present invention as set forth above without departing substantially from the principles of the present invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present invention and protected by the following claims.

