---

title: Arm prosthetic device
abstract: A prosthetic arm apparatus comprising a plurality of segments that provide a user of the prosthetic arm apparatus with substantially the same movement capability and function as a human arm. The segments are connectable to one another and connectable to a harness mount that may be adorned by the user. Each segment of the plurality of segments provides a portion of the movement capability, enabling the plurality of connected segments connected to the harness mount to provide substantially the same movement capability as that lacking in the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09114028&OS=09114028&RS=09114028
owner: DEKA Products Limited Partnership
number: 09114028
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080206
---
This application claims priority from and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 899 833 filed Feb. 6 2007 entitled Arm Prosthetic Device and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 963 639 filed Aug. 6 2007 entitled Arm Prosthetic Device. 

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 06 C 001 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present development relates to mechanical and medical devices and more particularly to prosthetics. More particularly the development utilizes mechanical structure and user or motor stimuli to operate the prosthesis similarly to a human limb.

Existing prosthetic arms having limited movement for the user. Further there are limited options for those patients who have lost their entire arm shoulder to hand. Also hand portions of existing prosthetic arms give the user in many instances one degree of movement. These prosthetics give limited capability with respect to amongst other things finer tasks.

Accordingly there is a need for a prosthetic that replaces an arm from shoulder to hand and that has increased degrees of freedom. There is also a need for a prosthetic hand that moves in a realistic manner.

It is one aspect of the present device to provide a prosthetic that will allow the user improved range of motion improved tactile capabilities increased comfort for the user and decreased reliance on manual positioning of the prosthesis.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention the present device employs a compliant structure that incorporates a shoulder flexion joint a shoulder abduction joint a humeral rotator an elbow flexion joint a wrist rotation joint and a wrist flexion joint. The present device also discloses a hand assembly.

In accordance with one embodiment of the device the shoulder flexion joint assembly includes a motor a belt a pulley a gear train a harmonic drive a potentiometer a non backdriving clutch and a compliance sensor. The electrically driven motor rotor drives the belt that is defined by two pulleys. The first pulley is magnetically driven by the motor rotor. The second pulley is driven by the belt and engages the harmonic drive. The harmonic drive has an interior wave generator that corresponds with the flexible spline. The spline in turn engages the exterior circular spline resulting in drastic reduction rates and driving the shoulder output flange allowing the shoulder joint flexion movement.

In accordance with another aspect of the shoulder flexion joint the joint assembly also discloses a clutch. The clutch has an input cage an output hex and a clutch race or ground. When the shoulder flexion joint is acted upon by an output force the output hex is engaged in a friction lock with the clutch race and bearings lining the exterior of the output hex preventing backward transfer of power through the clutch.

In accordance with another aspect of the shoulder flexion joint the joint assembly also discloses a shoulder compliance sensor. The sensor provides the shoulder flexion joint with measured compliance. The sensor utilizes the interior rim of the circular spline of the harmonic drive. The exterior rim of the circular spline additionally accommodates stationary reactor elements and series elastic elements. The circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are circumferentially disposed around the interior of a clamp. Together the clamp and a compliance reactor substantially enclose the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements. The clamp and compliance reactor remain stationary while the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are rotatably disposed around the exterior rim of the spline. Additionally a magnet is disposed on the exterior rim of the circular spline. Upon application of force the position of the circular spline alters causing the series elastic elements to compress against the reactor elements. The movement of the reactor elements transmits the rotational displacement of the circular spline via the reactor movement in relation to the stationary magnet. In this manner the compliance is built into the shoulder flexion joint and works to absorb energy when the joint is subjected to a load or an unexpected shock.

In accordance with the shoulder abduction joint the joint features a shoulder flexion mount. The shoulder flexion joint fastens to the shoulder flexion mount. The abductor also discloses a harness mount.

The humeral rotator features a harmonic drive a motor a motor armature a potentiometer and a humeral mount. The support structure of the humeral rotator has a humeral mount site at the output of the rotator. The motor drives the motor armature which in turn drives the wave generator of the harmonic drive. The wave generator drives the interior flexible spline which in turn interacts with the outer circular spline. The circular spline then drives the rotational movement of the humeral rotator.

In further accordance with an aspect of the humeral rotation site the potentiometer features a position pot and a potentiometer shaft.

In accordance with another embodiment of the device the elbow flexion joint is further comprised of a motor armature a motor rotor a motor rotor magnet integrated into the motor rotor a sun gear also integrated into the motor rotor four planet gears a ring gear a harmonic drive and a potentiometer.

In accordance with another aspect of the elbow flexion joint the motor armature applies electrical force to the motor rotor magnet integrated onto the surface of the motor rotor. The motor rotor in turn rotationally drives the sun gear also integrated on the motor rotor. The sun gear rotationally drives the four planet gears. The planet gears in turn react against the stationary ring gear to effect rotation of the carrier plate providing the first stage of reduction.

In accordance with a further aspect of the elbow flexion joint the carrier plate drives the harmonic drive wave generator. The harmonic drive has an interior wave generator that corresponds with the flexible spline. The spline in turn engages the exterior circular spline resulting in drastic reduction rates and driving the elbow output allowing the elbow flexion joint movement.

In accordance with a further aspect of the elbow flexion joint the elbow flexion joint also discloses a compliance sensor. The sensor provides the elbow flexion joint with measured compliance. The sensor utilizes the interior rim of the circular spline of the harmonic drive. The exterior rim of the circular spline additionally accommodates stationary reactor elements and series elastic elements. The circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are circumferentially disposed around the interior of a clamp. Together the clamp and a compliance reactor substantially enclose the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements. The clamp and compliance reactor remain stationary while the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are rotatably disposed around the exterior rim of the spline. Additionally a magnet is disposed on the exterior rim of the circular spline. Upon application of force the position of the circular spline alters causing the series elastic elements to compress against the reactor elements. The movement of the reactor elements transmits the rotational displacement of the circular spline via the reactor movement in relation to the stationary magnet. In this manner the compliance is built into the elbow flexion joint and works to absorb energy when the joint is subjected to a load or an unexpected shock.

The wrist rotation site features a harmonic drive a motor a motor armature and a potentiometer. The motor drives the motor armature which in turn drives the wave generator of the harmonic drive. The wave generator drives the interior flexible spline which in turn interacts with the outer circular spline. The circular spline then drives the rotational movement of the wrist rotator.

In further accordance with an aspect of the wrist rotation site the potentiometer features a position pot and a potentiometer shaft.

The wrist flexion joint is further comprised of a motor an output arm a gear train and a series of elastic elements. The wrist flexion joint is driven by a motor that in turn drives the gear train. A final stage driven gear transfers power to the output arm. The output arm connects to the main wrist flexion joint by a pivot axle.

In further accordance with an aspect of the wrist flexion joint the output arm contains series elastic elements a compliance sensor magnet and a drive arm. The exterior casing of the output arm encloses the drive arm which features at one end of the arm an opening defined to accept the pivot axle. The opposing end of the arm includes a compliance magnetic sensor. Disposed laterally at either side of the drive arm is a series elastic element.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device the hand assembly is comprised of structures replicating a thumb an index finger and the grouping of the middle ring and pinky fingers. The thumb structure is driven by two parallel actuators that provide the structure with two inputs and two outputs. The two parallel actuators give the thumb structure opposition movement with the index finger and lateral movement. The two actuators are connected in parallel and fixed to the interior structure of the hand assembly. The thumb structure also features a flexural element separating the base of the thumb structure from the load bearing portion of the structure. The base portion of the structure houses a sensor measuring the displacement of the loaded portion of the thumb relative to the thumb structure rest position. The load bearing portion of the thumb structure contains the magnet whose displacement the sensor measures. In one embodiment of the thumb structure the flexural structure is provided by linear flexural elements. Another embodiment of the thumb structure provides for spiral flexural elements. The sensor measuring displacement allows a calculation of the compliance to the thumb in both directions. The measured compliance allows continuous measurement of the force applied to the thumb structure in both directions.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device the index finger structure of the hand assembly contains a rotating element at the base of the index finger that drives the motion of the finger. The index finger structure is comprised of a base joint that is connected to the rotating element. The base joint supports the lower phalanx structure. The lower phalanx structure terminates at the middle joint. The middle joint then supports the middle phalanx structure. The middle phalanx structure terminates at the farthest joint. The farthest joint then supports the upper phalanx structure.

In further accordance with the present device the index finger structure and its integrated phalanx structures are kinematically determinate based on the rotation of the base element. When driven by the rotating element the index finger structure is constrained to follow a set trajectory enabling precise dexterity of index finger movement. In this way the user can rely on the fixed trajectory of the index finger to perform fine tasks such as pinching or retrieving small objects. In another embodiment of the index finger the middle phalanx structure is fixedly joined to the upper phalanx structure.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device the middle ring and pinky finger structures MRP structures are integrated into the hand assembly. Each of the three structures originates with a base joint supporting a lower phalanx structure. Each lower phalanx structure terminates at a middle joint. Each middle joint then supports a middle phalanx structure. Each middle phalanx joint terminates at a farthest joint. Each farthest joint then supports an upper phalanx structure.

Each individual MRP structure features an indeterminate linkage between the base joint and middle joint and a deterministic linkage between the middle joint and farthest joint. As a result the base and middle joints of the individual finger structures will continue to operate until the joint motion is impeded. During a grasping action the middle phalanx structure will continue to operate even if the base phalanx structure is impeded by the object being grasped. This indeterminate linkage assists in creating a conforming grasp for the hand structure and is enabled by the double differential of the MRP transmissions.

Additionally the MRP structures have indeterminate gear sets allowing the three structures to move separately in order to grasp or conform around an obstacle. Two differential gear sets incorporated into the hand assembly structure drive the MRP structures. The first differential gear is driven by the actuator and has outputs at the rotating element of one finger structure and at the input of the second differential gear. The second differential gear has outputs at the rotating elements of the remaining fingers. As one actuator drives all three MRP structures separately the MRP structures are linked and under actuated. As a result of the differential gear assembly if one MRP structure encounters an obstacle it will stop but the other MRP structures will still move freely until they encounter an obstacle.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device a non backdriveable clutch controls the reaction of the thumb structure the index finger structure and the linked MRP structures to the application of an output load. This embodiment of the clutch provides that any output torque on the hand assembly will result in a friction lock of the clutch. In this embodiment the output hex of the clutch locks against the input spline and the bearings disposed between the output and input. Further this embodiment of the clutch provides that upon sufficient input torque the clutch unlocks and allows additional input movement without the user having to manually reset the hand assembly.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device a planetary gear stage transfers torque from the actuator to the output stage. The actuator drives the planetary stage s ring gear which through interaction with the planet gears drives the planet s carrier which then drives the output stage. The sun gear is attached through a spring to ground. Any torque applied to the planetary stage will cause a displacement of the sun gear until the torque is balanced by the displacement of the spring. Thus the spring stores elastic energy and increases the compliance of the index structure. The use of the spring attached to the sun gear allows measurement of load on the structures without the addition of a load cell.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present device a stage driver and timing belt transfer torque to the index finger structure and the MPR structures. The stage driver transfers the torque to the timing belt loosening one side of the timing belt and tightening the opposite side. In further accordance with the current device a tensioner positioned between the stage driver and its corresponding pulley displaces as the tension of the timing belt changes. The tensioner displacement stores energy. Inference of the load applied to the structure can be based upon that displacement. The use of this tensioner allows measurement of load on the structures without the addition of a load cell. The tensioner additionally stores elastic energy and increases the compliance of the structures.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

Referring to a prosthetic arm apparatus for attachment to a shoulder of a shoulder disarticulated amputee includes a plurality of segments including a shoulder abductor a shoulder flexion assembly a humeral rotator an elbow flexion assembly a wrist rotator a wrist flexion assembly and a hand assembly . The prosthetic arm apparatus in the exemplary embodiment has the dimensions and weight of a female arm of a fiftieth percentile so that many different users may comfortably use the prosthetic arm apparatus . As should be understood by those skilled in the art the prosthetic arm apparatus may be constructed to larger or smaller dimensions if desired.

Referring to one embodiment of the shoulder abductor is shown. The shoulder abductor includes a harness mount . The harness mount has harness interface holes that may be used to attach the abductor to a prosthetic harness not shown or other system for supporting the prosthetic arm apparatus . In the exemplary embodiment the harness may be one disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 by Altobelli et al. entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus filed on Feb. 6 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring to the shoulder abductor also has a shoulder flexion assembly mount shown according to one embodiment. The shoulder flexion assembly mount interfaces with the shoulder flexion assembly to mount the shoulder flexion assembly onto the shoulder abductor . In one embodiment the flexion assembly mount has interface holes to facilitate connection of the shoulder flexion assembly by attachment means such as bolts.

Referring to the shoulder abductor further includes an abductor joint shown according to one embodiment. The abductor joint is used to pivot the shoulder flexion assembly mount away from the harness mount and back toward the harness mount .

Referring to the shoulder abductor includes an abductor motor to control the pivotal movement of the abductor joint both the shoulder abductor and abductor motor shown according to one embodiment. In this embodiment the abductor motor is a brushed DC motor controlling the pivotal movement through an abductor belt connected to a worm drive driving a worm wheel connected to an abductor harmonic drive .

Referring to the shoulder flexion assembly in one embodiment has a main shoulder housing with an abductor interface for connecting the shoulder flexion assembly to the shoulder abductor . The shoulder flexion assembly also has a humeral interface for connecting the humeral rotator to the shoulder flexion assembly .

Referring to in one embodiment shoulder flexion motor magnets are disposed around an exterior of a shoulder flexion motor rotor . In this embodiment a shoulder flexion motor armature drives the shoulder flexion motor rotor which in turn drives a shoulder flexion motor pulley around a motor shaft . The shoulder flexion motor pulley supports a shoulder flexion belt which is linked between the shoulder flexion motor pulley and a shoulder flexion belt driven pulley . The shoulder flexion belt driven pulley drives a shoulder flexion harmonic drive wave generator . A shoulder flexion harmonic drive flexspline rotates against the shoulder flexion harmonic drive wave generator and a shoulder flexion harmonic drive circular spline resulting in reduced speed for the joint movement. The shoulder flexion harmonic drive flexspline is connected to the abductor interface and is thus able to rotate the shoulder flexion assembly in reference to the abductor interface.

Referring to in one embodiment a non backdriving clutch is disposed inside the main shoulder housing . The non backdriving clutch allows the prosthetic arm to hold position by locking when the prosthetic arm is not moving.

Referring to in one embodiment roller bearings line the interface between an input cage and an output hex . When a force is applied to the shoulder abductor interface the output hex locks against the bearing race and the roller bearings . This prevents the shoulder flexion assembly from moving due to force applied to its output shoulder abductor interface . Upon the exertion of a necessary amount of input force through the clutch input cage the output hex disengages and allows the shoulder flexion assembly to move. The clutch input cage and the output hex are both constrained by a clutch race . It should be understood by those skilled in the art that other mechanisms could be used to prevent backdriving of the prosthetic arm such as a clutch that locks in one direction or a solenoid with brakes that engage when the solenoid is powered.

Referring to in one embodiment a compliance subassembly includes a compliance reactor positioned on top of the shoulder flexion harmonic drive circular spline and held in place by the clamp . The compliance reactor measures the amount of displacement in the compliance subassembly in relation to the position of a compliance sensor magnet .

Referring to in one embodiment the interior of compliance subassembly includes series elastic elements . The shoulder flexion harmonic drive circular spline defines the interior of the compliance subassembly and is formed to accommodate the placement of the series elastic elements around an outer diameter of the shoulder flexion harmonic drive circular spline . The series elastic elements are confined by the shoulder flexion harmonic drive circular spline and the clamp .

Referring to the placement of the compliance reactor in relation to the series elastic elements and reactor elements is shown. In this embodiment three reactor elements are positioned around the compliance reactor equidistant to each other. One series elastic element is placed on either side of each reactor element . When the shoulder flexion assembly is subjected to unexpected force such as a sudden jolt or impact the compliance reactor and reactor elements displace from their rest positions and compress against the series elastic elements . In that way the compliance subassembly attenuates the shock being transferred to the rest of the shoulder flexion assembly . The compliance reactor may also measure the amount of displacement and compliance by measuring the movement of the compliance reactor in relation to the stationary position of the compliance sensor magnet .

Referring to one embodiment of the humeral rotator is shown. The humeral rotator includes an outer bearing carrier and an arm control module . The first control housing is used to connect the humeral rotator to the shoulder flexion assembly . The inner rotational elements of the humeral rotator are held in place by a clamp which is fastened to the outer bearing carrier . A humeral mount passes through the clamp and includes an elbow interface for attaching the elbow flexion assembly to the humeral rotator .

Still referring to the one embodiment a humeral potentiometer of the humeral rotator measures the rotational displacement of a humeral potentiometer shaft that rotates proportionately to the humeral mount .

Referring to the elbow flexion assembly includes an elbow joint and a radial mount . The elbow joint includes a slot into which the elbow interface of the humeral rotator is inserted to facilitate connection of the elbow flexion assembly to the humeral rotator . The radial mount provides a second electronics housing in which an ACM stack is located. The radial mount includes a wrist interface for attachment of the wrist rotator .

Referring to the elbow joint includes an elbow motor armature that drives an elbow motor rotor . Elbow magnets are disposed at one end of the motor rotor and the opposing end of the motor rotor has a sun gear . As the motor armature drives the sun gear the sun gear in turn drives four planetary gears positioned equidistant from each other around the sun gear . The four planetary gears in turn react against a ring gear giving the elbow flexion assembly a first stage of speed reduction through an elbow harmonic drive wave generator which also acts as the planet carrier. The elbow harmonic drive wave generator powers the elbow harmonic drive flexspline which drives against the elbow harmonic drive circular spline giving the elbow flexion assembly a second stage of reduction. The elbow harmonic drive flexspline then drives the motion of the elbow flexion assembly . Bearings and crossed roller bearings support the outer perimeter of the elbow flexion assembly . Although described with both a planetary gear system and an elbow harmonic drive the elbow flexion assembly could be controlled solely by a harmonic drive by changing the gear reduction ratio.

Referring to in the embodiment shown the radial mount is structurally fixed to the elbow joint such that when the elbow joint is actuated the radial mount moves. Referring to an elbow compliance subassembly is incorporated into the elbow flexion assembly . A plurality of arms extends from the center portion of the elbow compliance subassembly . Each arm has an elbow series elastic element disposed on either side of the arm . Similar to the shoulder flexion assembly if the elbow flexion assembly is subject to a torque the elbow compliance subassembly with its series elastic elements is capable of absorbing the shock attenuating the torque magnitude through the rest of the elbow flexion assembly .

Referring to the ACM stack includes circuit boards connected to one another by structural standoffs . The structural standoffs are constructed of a conductive material so that electrical power may be passed through the circuit boards . The structural standoffs allow power to be supplied to each circuit board without conventional power connections.

Referring to the wrist rotator includes a wrist outer bearing carrier a wrist clamp a wrist potentiometer an elbow interface and a wrist flexion assembly interface .

Referring to movement of the wrist rotator is controlled by a harmonic drive similar to that described for the humeral rotator. A wrist rotator motor armature drives a wrist rotator motor rotor having wrist rotator magnets disposed to its surface. The lower portion of the wrist rotator motor rotor integrates a wrist rotator harmonic drive wave generator . A wrist rotator harmonic drive flexspline rotates with the wrist rotator harmonic drive wave generator against a wrist rotator harmonic drive circular spline resulting in reduction in the speed of rotation as the wrist rotator harmonic drive flexspline causes the wrist flexion assembly interface to move with respect to the rest of the wrist rotator . Bearings support the wrist rotator motor rotor . Bearings support the harmonic drive components and .

Still referring to the wrist potentiometer of the wrist rotator is disposed at one end of a wrist shaft and measures the rotational displacement thereof. The wrist shaft may be tubular having an electronics channel for passing electronic power and controls through the wrist rotator .

Referring to the wrist flexion assembly includes hand control module circuit boards an input support structure an output arm and a hand interface . The input support structure connects the wrist rotator with the wrist flexion assembly . The output arm has positive and negative flexion such that the output arm is able to move in two opposite directions in reference to the support structure . The hand interface allows the hand assembly to be connected to the wrist flexion assembly . Referring to the wrist flexion assembly has wrist electrical connections for supplying power to a wrist flexion motor .

Referring to in the embodiment shown the wrist flexion motor drives a wrist flexion output gear which in turn drives a wrist flexion final stage driven gear . A wrist flexion pivot axle of the output arm is axially disposed inside an opening defined by the interior of the wrist flexion final stage driven gear . Wrist flexion series elastic elements are disposed in the interior of the output arm . Movement of the wrist flexion final stage driven gear facilitates the positive and negative motion of the output arm . A non backdriving clutch is disposed at one end of the wrist flexion output gear .

Referring to the output arm has a wrist flexion drive arm which is driven by the wrist flexion final stage driven gear . The end of the wrist flexion drive arm accommodates a wrist flexion compliance sensor magnet . The wrist flexion series elastic elements are disposed on either side of the wrist flexion drive arm and the wrist flexion series elastic elements and the drive arm are substantially enclosed within the output arm . Similar to the elbow flexion assembly and the shoulder flexion assembly if the wrist flexion assembly is subjected to a force the wrist flexion drive arm compresses the wrist flexion series elastic elements and attenuates the force through the rest of the wrist flexion assembly .

The following is a description of one embodiment of the hand assembly. Other embodiments of the hand assembly are described and shown elsewhere in this specification. Referring to the hand assembly includes a hand support for providing an interface for connecting the hand assembly to the wrist flexion output arm . The hand assembly also includes a thumb structure an index finger structure and an MRP structure replicating a middle finger a ring finger and a pinky finger . The thumb structure is driven by two thumb drives that feed into a single differential giving the thumb structure two degrees of freedom of movement. The index finger structure is driven by a single index drive and the MRP structure is driven by a single MRP drive that feeds a double differential.

Referring to the index finger structure not shown is driven by the index drive through an index drive pulley an index tensioner an index tension belt and an index finger pulley . The index drive pulley is stage driven and transfers the torque to the index tension belt which in turn rotates the index finger pulley causing the index finger structure to move. As the index tension belt transfers the torque one side of the index tension belt tightens and the other side loosens depending on which direction the index drive pulley is rotated. The index tensioner is located between the index drive pulley and the index finger pulley and the index tensioner displaces in relation to the change in load to maintain the tension of the index tension belt . The index tensioner has one side grounded and the other side capable of displacement upon the application of a load. The index tensioner may instead ground the moveable side of the index tensioner with a spring.

Referring to in another embodiment the index finger structure is driven through an index sun shaft a set of index planets an index planet carrier an index ring gear and an index drive gear . The index drive drives the index ring gear turning the index planets the turning of which causes the index planet carrier to rotate. The index drive gear is driven by the external teeth of the index planet carrier causing the index structure to move. Any torque transmitted by the index planet carrier will react against the index sun shaft causing it to rotationally displace the index spring through the index spring mount . This rotational displacement sensed by an index potentiometer can be used to infer the load on the index finger structure . This rotational displacement can be used to store elastic energy.

Referring to the thumb structure is mounted on a thumb support which is driven by the two thumb differential drives . The thumb structure has flexural cuts at its base allowing the compliant thumb structure to move when a load is applied to it.

Referring to the hand assembly includes an MRP drive pulley driven by the MRP drive not shown . The MRP drive pulley is connected through an MRP tension belt to the MRP pulley enabling movement of the MRP structure . The MRP drive pulley is stage driven and transfers the load to the MRP tension belt which in turn rotates the linked MRP structure via the MRP pulley . As the MRP tension belt transfers the torque one side of the MRP tension belt tightens as the other side loosens. An MRP tensioner located at one side of the MRP tension belt displaces in relation to the change in load to maintain the tension of the MRP tension belt .

Referring to in another embodiment the MRP finger structures are driven through an MRP sun shaft a set of MRP planets an MRP planet carrier an MRP ring gear and an MRP drive gear . The MRP drive drives the MRP ring gear turning the MRP planets the turning of which causes the MRP planet carrier to rotate. The MRP drive gear is driven by the external teeth of the MRP planet carrier causing the MRP structures to move. Any torque transmitted by the MRP planet carrier will react against the MRP sun shaft causing it to rotationally displace the MRP spring through the MRP spring mount . This rotational displacement can be used to store elastic energy.

Referring to the MRP differential drive includes a main MRP drive gear . The MRP drive gear drives a first MRP input axle . The first MRP input axle drives a first differential idler gear which optionally drives a middle spur gear or a differential interface gear . The middle spur gear drives a middle pivot axle . The middle finger is mounted on the middle pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP differential drive . The differential interface gear drives a second MRP input axle . The second MRP input axle drives a second differential idler gear which optionally drives a ring spur gear or a pinky spur gear . The ring spur gear drives a ring pivot axle . The ring finger is mounted on the ring pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP differential drive . The pinky spur gear drives a pinky pivot axle . The pinky finger is mounted on the pinky pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . While the MRP drive drives the middle finger the ring finger and the pinky finger the gear configuration of the first input axle and the second input axle allows independent movement for the under actuated finger gear system of the MRP structures .

Referring to in another embodiment of the hand the MRP differential drive includes an MRP drive gear which drives a double differential allowing the MRP fingers to conformably wrap around an object. The MRP drive gear drives a first MRP input axle . The first input axle drives a first differential idler gear which optionally drives a middle spur gear or a differential interface gear . The middle spur gear drives a middle pivot axle . The middle finger is mounted on the middle pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . The differential interface gear drives a second MRP input axle . The second MRP input axle drives a second differential idler gear which optionally drives a ring spur gear or a pinky spur gear . The ring spur gear drives a ring pivot axle . The ring finger is mounted on the ring pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . The pinky spur gear drives a pinky pivot axle . The pinky finger is mounted on the pinky pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . While the MRP drive drives the middle finger the ring finger and the pinky finger the gear configuration of the first input axle and the second input axle allows independent movement for the under actuated finger gear system of the MRP structures .

Referring to the thumb differential drives control the movement of the thumb structure and are driven by thumb actuators . The thumb actuators have non backdriving thumb clutches to to prevent output loads from reaching and backdriving the thumb actuators. One thumb actuator drives a first thumb output drive and a first thumb output gear . The first thumb output gear in turn drives a first thumb transfer gear which drives a fixed differential shaft . The fixed differential shaft drives one thumb differential bevel gear . The second thumb actuator drives a second thumb output drive and a second thumb output gear . The second thumb output gear drives a second thumb transfer gear which drives a thumb differential bevel gear . The two thumb differential bevel gears and operate the thumb structure in its two degrees of motion.

The thumb structure the index finger structure and MRP structure in one embodiment are covered in silicone which provides additional friction and aids in gripping objects. In some embodiments the entire hand assembly may also be covered in silicone to provide additional grip for holding objects. In other embodiments the silicone material may be replaced by other compliant materials.

The various parts of the prosthetic arm apparatus are preferably constructed from plastic or magnesium. However where more strength is desired the parts may be made of aluminum titanium or steel. In other embodiments the various parts of the prosthetic arm may be constructed of other metals or plastics depending on the desired characteristics including strength and weight of the various part.

Referring to a tactile feedback sensor may be positioned on the inner side of the thumb structure . The tactile feedback sensor may be a pressure sensor force sensor a displacement sensor or other similar sensor capable of providing the user with feedback. Referring to the tactile feedback sensor is operatively connected to a feedback actuator . The tactile feedback sensor may be connected to the feedback actuator by either wires or wirelessly. In operation as the user grips an object with the hand assembly feedback sensor reads the displacement of or the force exerted on the thumb structure . That reading is then sent to the feedback actuator which gives the user tactile feedback that indicates the strength of the grip. Feedback actuator may be placed on the chest of the user or in any other location capable of receiving tactile feedback such as on a user s residuum . Referring to the feedback actuator may be located on a foot controller that is used to control hand assembly .

Feedback actuator may be a vibration motor such as any vibration motor known in the art placed against the skin of the user. As the user grips an object feedback actuator begins vibrating notifying the user how strong the object is being gripped. As the force on or displacement of the tactile feedback sensor changes frequency and or amplitude of vibration may also change notifying the amputee of a changing grip. For example if a vibrating actuator is placed at the chest of the user as in the user will feel the vibration at his chest.

The feedback actuator may also be placed wherever the controller for the hand assembly is located. For example if a foot controller controls the hand assembly the feedback actuator may be incorporated into the foot controller . The user will then receive tactile feedback of the strength of the prosthetic grip at the same location where the controller is located.

The actuator may also be a pressure actuator that applies pressure against the user s skin. For example the actuator may have a rod that increases pressure against the amputee s skin as the hand assembly increases its grip on an object.

Although described with a single tactile feedback sensor additional tactile feedback sensors may be placed at other locations on the hand assembly . For example additional tactile feedback sensors may be placed on the index finger structure the MRP structures on the palm of the hand assembly or on any combination of these positions or any other location. Each tactile feedback sensor would then be operatively connected to an associated feedback actuator . Multiple tactile feedback sensors and actuators would provide more sophisticated tactile feedback of the strength of the grip improving the control of the hand assembly .

In operation the prosthetic arm apparatus is able to move substantially similar to a human arm. Referring to starting with the hand assembly the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure are each driven independent of the others and therefore each may be actuated without actuating the other two structures. The thumb actuator driving the thumb miter gear controls the thumb structure s movement in a direction toward or away from the center of the palm of the hand assembly as shown in . The thumb actuator driving the lateral rotation shaft controls the thumb structure s movement in a direction toward or away from the side of the palm of the hand assembly as shown in . The thumb actuators provide the thumb structure with four degrees of freedom in the thumb structure s movement. The index finger structure driven by a single index differential drive may be actuated with two degrees of freedom. Specifically the index finger structure may be actuated toward or away from the palm of the hand assembly wherein the movement path is similar to that of a human index finger while making or releasing a fist. The middle finger ring finger and pinky finger of the MRP structure are actuated by the MRP differential drive . Additionally the middle finger ring finger and pinky finger are actuated toward or away from the palm of the hand assembly similar to the index finger structure . However the middle finger ring finger and pinky finger are each geared separately such that the rate of movement of each is different simulating human finger movement.

Referring to the hand assembly is mounted on the wrist flexion assembly via the hand interface as shown in . Referring to as the output arm of the wrist flexion assembly is actuated the hand assembly is also caused to move. The output arm of the wrist flexion assembly may be actuated pivotally about wrist flexion pivot axle as shown in moving the hand interface to the left or right and thus pivoting the hand assembly in relation to the input support structure .

Referring back to the wrist flexion assembly is attached to the wrist rotator via wrist flexion assembly interface shown in . Referring to when actuated the wrist flexion assembly interface is rotated about wrist shaft in relation to the wrist outer bearing carrier . Therefore the wrist flexion assembly and attached hand assembly are also caused to rotate in reference to the wrist outer bearing carrier by actuation of the wrist rotator . Therefore the wrist rotator allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move in a way similar to a human arm opening a door.

Referring back to the wrist rotator is attached to the elbow flexion assembly via the wrist interface shown in . Referring to when the elbow flexion assembly is actuated the radial mount is rotated about the axis of motor rotor . The wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are thus also caused to rotate about the axis of motor rotor because they are attached at the wrist interface to the radial mount . Therefore the elbow flexion joint allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to perform hammering motion.

Referring back to the elbow flexion assembly is attached to the humeral rotator via the humeral mount shown in . Referring to actuation of the humeral rotator causes the humeral mount to rotate in relation to the outer bearing carrier of the humeral rotator . Since the elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to the humeral mount they are also caused to rotate in relation to the outer bearing carrier . This allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to rotate to perform an arm wrestling motion.

Referring back to the humeral rotator is attached to the shoulder flexion assembly though the humeral interface shown in . Referring to actuation of the shoulder flexion assembly causes the main shoulder housing to pivot about the center of the abductor interface . Since the humeral rotator elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to the main housing they are also caused to rotate in relation to the abductor interface . Therefore the shoulder flexion assembly allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move along the torso simulating running motion.

Referring to the shoulder flexion joint is attached to the shoulder abductor through the shoulder flexion assembly mount shown in . Referring to the shoulder abductor is attached to a harness that is worn by the user via harness mount . When the shoulder abductor is actuated in a positive direction the shoulder flexion assembly mount pivots away from the harness mount and the user. Similarly by actuating the shoulder abductor in a negative direction the shoulder flexion assembly mount is pivoted toward the harness mount and the user. Since the shoulder flexion assembly humeral rotator elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to shoulder abductor at the flexion assembly mount they are also caused to pivot with the shoulder flexion assembly mount .

One characteristic of the prosthetic arm apparatus described herein is that it provides the user with substantially the same movement capabilities and degrees of freedom of a human arm including full shoulder functionality. Additionally since each segment of the plurality of segments operates independently of each other segment of the plurality of segments fewer segments may be used for less severe amputees. For example a transhumeral amputee may have full shoulder functionality in the residuum in which case the shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly segments would be omitted from the prosthetic arm apparatus . The resulting prosthetic arm apparatus would include the humeral rotator the elbow flexion assembly the wrist rotator the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly wherein the humeral rotator would be attached to the prosthetic harness. A further advantage of the present invention is the use of non backdriving clutches to preclude movement of the segments due to forces exerted on the prosthetic arm apparatus when not in motion. This saves power because power to the prosthetic arm apparatus is turned off whenever the arm is not in motion.

An additional characteristic of the apparatus is that the hand assembly includes independently moving fingers and is capable of completing fine tasks such as pinching grasping non uniform objects and lifting small objects off flat surfaces. Also the tactile feedback sensor provides the user with feedback during use of the prosthetic arm apparatus such as the force of a grip. The apparatus also includes silicon covering on the finger structures providing amongst other things grip for grasping objects. The rigid fingernail provides a backstop for the silicon finger cover to enhance gripping capability. The rigid fingernail also allows the user to lift small objects from a surface with the prosthetic arm apparatus .

Although the invention has been described in the context of a prosthetic arm an apparatus according to the elements of this invention could be used in other robotic tools such as those used in manufacturing.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

