---

title: Ultra low injection angle fuel holes in a combustor fuel nozzle
abstract: A fuel nozzle for a combustor includes a mixing passage through which fluid is directed toward a combustion area and a plurality of swirler vanes disposed in the mixing passage. Each swirler vane of the plurality of swirler vanes includes at least one fuel hole through which fuel enters the mixing passage in an injection direction substantially parallel to an outer surface of the plurality of swirler vanes thereby decreasing a flameholding tendency of the fuel nozzle. A method of operating a fuel nozzle for a combustor includes flowing a fluid through a mixing passage past a plurality of swirler vanes and injecting a fuel into the mixing passage in an injection direction substantially parallel to an outer surface of the plurality of swirler vanes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08291705&OS=08291705&RS=08291705
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08291705
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080813
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE FC26 05NT42643 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject invention relates generally to gas turbines. More particularly the subject invention relates to fuel nozzles for gas turbine engines.

Gas turbines typically include a quantity of fuel nozzles or swozzles in a combustor section of the gas turbine. Each nozzle is a component having one or more passages for delivering a mixture of fuel and air to a combustion chamber for ignition. A fuel nozzle often includes a swirler to improve mixing of the fuel and air into a consistent homogeneous mixture prior to ignition. The swirler includes a plurality of vanes extending from the nozzle and having an aerodynamic profile. The swirler vanes often include passages which provide fuel to fuel holes on a surface of the swirler vanes. As fuel exits the fuel holes it mixes with fluid typically air passing the swirler vanes. The fuel holes are typically configured as straight holes connecting a fuel plenum in a swirler vane to the passage where the fuel mixes with air. The fuel holes configured as such typically inject the fuel substantially perpendicular to the passing air. When fuel is injected into the passing airflow a jet in crossflow phenomena is created which results in the formation of a recirculation zone of low velocity flow downstream of the injection hole but substantially upstream of the combustion zone.

The recirculation zone is problematic especially for highly reactive high hydrogen fuels such as syngas carbon free syngas and hydrogen natural gas blends. These fuels have much shorter blow off or blow out times than residence time of the fuel in the low velocity recirculation zone so if an ignition source is provided any fuel in the recirculation zone may ignite and continue to burn near the swirler vane damaging the fuel nozzle and possibly other components of the gas turbine.

According to one aspect of the invention a fuel nozzle for a combustor includes a mixing passage through which fluid is directed toward a combustion area and a plurality of swirler vanes disposed in the mixing passage. Each swirler vane of the plurality of swirler vanes includes at least one fuel hole through which fuel enters the mixing passage in an injection direction substantially parallel to an outer surface of the plurality of swirler vanes thereby decreasing a flameholding tendency of the fuel nozzle.

According to another aspect of the invention a method of operating a fuel nozzle for a combustor includes flowing a fluid through a mixing passage past a plurality of swirler vanes and injecting a fuel into the mixing passage in an injection direction substantially parallel to an outer surface of the plurality of swirler vanes thereby decreasing a flameholding tendency of the fuel nozzle.

These and other advantages and features will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the drawings.

The detailed description explains embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

Shown in is a portion of a fuel nozzle including a swirler . The swirler is configured and disposed to receive a fluid flow normally air from a nozzle inlet and mix the air with fuel into an air fuel mix. The air fuel mix then proceeds downstream where it is ignited in a combustion area . As best shown in the swirler includes a plurality of swirler vanes arranged circumferentially around a center body and extending to a shroud . The swirler of the embodiment of is in one embodiment produced by Direct Metal Laser Sintering DMLS but other methods of fabrication including for example casting welding or machining are contemplated within the scope of the present disclosure.

The plurality of swirler vanes may have one or more internal plenums as best shown in . The plenums are connected to the center body at one or more center body holes and are configured to be capable of flowing fuel from the center body through the one or more plenums and exiting the plenums through one or more fuel holes disposed at a swirler vane outer surface . As shown in each fuel hole includes a metering section which in some embodiments has a circular or racetrack shaped cross section and is the smallest cross section of the fuel hole to regulate a rate of fuel flow through the fuel hole into a mixing passage . A leading wall of the fuel hole is gently curved and may have a leading radius of curvature and meets the outer surface at an angle of about 33 degrees. While the in the embodiment shown the angle is about 33 degrees it is to be appreciated that other suitable angles may be utilized for example an angle in the range of about 15 55 degrees. A trailing wall of the of the fuel hole has a trailing radius of curvature greater than the leading radius of curvature and is disposed such that the trailing wall is substantially tangent to the outer surface when the trailing wall meets the outer surface . Further the trailing radius of curvature may vary for example increase from the metering section to the mixing passage . The resulting fuel hole has an exit cross sectional area which is larger than the cross section of the metering section which allows for flow diffusion. Further since the trailing wall meets the outer surface tangentially fuel as shown by arrows is injected into the mixing passage near the trailing wall substantially parallel to an airflow through the mixing passage . Injecting the fuel into the airflow establishes a near co flow of the fuel with the airflow filling a downstream area with fuel with a high downstream velocity as opposed to a recirculation zone of fuel of typical fuel hole configurations.

Shown in are views of two configurations of exits of fuel holes . In some embodiments as shown in the exit includes a downstream edge an upstream edge and two lateral edges . In the embodiment of the lateral edges are substantially parallel to each other and parallel and or parallel to a flow direction . In other embodiments as shown in the lateral edges of exit are flared at a flare angle from the flow direction such that a width of the exit is greater at the downstream edge than at the upstream edge . Conversely in some embodiments it may be advantageous to flare the lateral edges such that the width at the downstream edge is less than the width at the upstream edge . It is to be appreciated that the configurations of exits shown in may be utilized together in the same vane or in the same fuel nozzle . Further the exit configurations described herein are merely exemplary and other exit configurations are contemplated within the present scope.

The fuel holes according to the presented embodiments may be formed via a variety of manufacturing methods. In some embodiments the fuel holes are formed during Direct Metal Laser Sintering DMLS of the plurality of swirler vanes .

The fuel holes described herein result in injection of fuel into the mixing passage substantially parallel to the airflow resulting in high velocity flow of the fuel toward a combustion zone not shown . The high velocity flow reduces formation of the recirculation zone and thereby decreases a flameholding tendency of the fuel nozzle .

While the invention has been described in detail in connection with only a limited number of embodiments it should be readily understood that the invention is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations alterations substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described but which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally while various embodiments of the invention have been described it is to be understood that aspects of the invention may include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly the invention is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.

