---

title: Configuration and analysis of design variants of multi-domain circuits
abstract: A circuit design system generates a circuit variant by relocating one or more circuit elements through a user move action on a user interface. When the user move action results in the circuit element traversing a circuit domain boundary, the design system performs one or more operations to form the circuit variant having its initial connectivity with the relocated circuit element without any other user action on the user interface than the user move action. Further, in response to no other action on the user interface than the user move action, analysis tools and reports are initiated so that rapid evaluation of circuit variants may be implemented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645894&OS=08645894&RS=08645894
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08645894
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080702
---
The present general inventive concept is related to circuit design apparatuses and circuit design methodologies of circuit designs formed of physically divided sub circuits. More specifically the present general inventive concept affords a circuit designer with design tools to rapidly configure and analyze variants of a circuit design created by moving one or more selected circuit elements represented in a user interface across a boundary separating sub circuits of the circuit design.

As design trends of electronic circuits tend toward more compact circuitry circuit designers rely more heavily on separating large complex circuits into separate domains such as through separations of functionality or fabrication process. For example although various radio frequency RF circuit designs can be physically implemented as a System on Chip SoC whereby the entire circuit is formed on a single circuit bearing medium such as silicon certain performance criteria require many RF circuit designs to be implemented as a System in Package SiP whereby various sub circuits are respectively realized on separate circuit bearing media. While the SoC implementation incorporates the necessary passive components on the circuit bearing medium itself typically on a silicon die such implementations are also very costly and are characterized by a low quality factor Q . Alternatively the circuit may be implemented as a SiP to separate the passive components from the silicon die and instead the passive components are integrated on an inexpensive and high quality package substrate. However separating the passive components in this manner comes with a whole new set of challenges and disadvantages such as for example performance degradation due to parasitic effects from the packaging interfaces between the passive components and the circuit on the silicon die reduction in yield due to relatively large process variations in packaging as compared with integrated circuit technology and counteracting any savings of chip area achieved by relocating the passive components from the die by the addition of extra input output I O pads on the silicon die to connect with the exterior passive components.

Design decisions as to whether passive components should be constructed on a circuit bearing medium separate from the die referred to as off chip or fabricated on the silicon die or on chip are typically made based on analysis of several important metrics such as cost and performance gain noise and linearity of the resulting system and ability of the design to tolerate fabrication process variations. Such analysis can be performed through simulation of modeled variants of the RF SiP design where such variants are created by changing the placement of passive components in the design environment and evaluating the performance of the corresponding circuit model. The change in component placement may be localized within the die itself or within the off chip substrate itself or across die and off chip substrate or across dies within the SiP design. Whereas it is quite intuitive and thus easy for a designer to choose the placement of a high value passive component as off chip and common value passive component as on chip the same is neither intuitive nor easy when the passive component has neither a common value nor a high value.

The conventional approach to construct RF SiP design variants and analyze their respective performances involves a large number of manual steps in not only the SiP IC design flow but in the simulation flow as well. Consequently the process of creating and analyzing even a small number of circuit variants is not only very time consuming but prone to error. Moreover the number of manual operations to create and analyze circuit variants increases with the number of passive components being considered for the on chip vs. off chip trade off. Any unsatisfactory performance of a SiP variant would cause the designer to repeat all of the previously performed steps changing SiP and IC die schematics to create variants generating a floor plan and estimating silicon area for each die variant generating the die footprint to be used in the off chip substrate layout for each variant generating the floor plan for each off chip circuit variant extracting the relevant portion of the design impacted by way of moving the component to simulate the performance of the circuit responsive to the move and performing tradeoff analysis by comparing the simulation results of the variants.

As is apparent from the flow diagram of the large number of steps and overall complexity of performing conventional trade off analysis renders the entire process unmanageable inefficient and costly. The large number of steps to create a variant restricts the designer to attempt only a limited number of combinations thereby resulting in non optimal and inefficient trade off analysis.

In the absence of sufficient tools to assist in rapid quantitative analysis of the performance of the circuit RF circuit designers often have difficulty in making a choice with respect to the placement of the passive components in an RF design. These illustrative RF design difficulties are in fact indicative of shortcomings in the much broader field of general circuit design and analysis namely creating and analyzing circuit variants in a seamless manner. Accordingly there is an apparent need for a unified system and method that allows easy and rapid performance analysis of variants of circuits formed from components that can be distributed across more than one circuit bearing medium.

The present general inventive concept provides an apparatus and concomitant processes to configure and analyze variants of multi domain circuit designs through minimal user actions on a user interface.

Additional aspects and utilities of the present general inventive concept will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the general inventive concept.

The foregoing and or other aspects and utilities of the present general inventive concept may be achieved by providing an apparatus to evaluate variants of a circuit design. The apparatus includes a database to store circuit data that realizes a circuit on at least one circuit bearing medium a user interface to respond to a user action to relocate at least one circuit element across a circuit domain boundary defined on the circuit bearing medium and a circuit data processor to modify the circuit data in response to no other user action on the user interface than the user action to relocate the at least one circuit element so that the connectivity of the circuit with the relocated circuit element is maintained.

The foregoing and or other aspects and utilities of the present general inventive concept may be also achieved by providing an apparatus to evaluate variants of a circuit design including a database storing circuit data a user interface through which a user action relocates at least one circuit element across a circuit domain boundary and an analyzer to determine a value of a circuit parameter of the circuit variant in response to no other user action than the user action to relocate the at least one circuit component.

The foregoing and or other aspects and utilities of the present general inventive concept may also be achieved by providing a method of evaluating variants. A location across a domain boundary in the circuit design of at least one circuit element is specified through a user action on a user interface. Circuit data is processed to realize the circuit on the medium such that the circuit element remains connected at its previous location across the domain boundary. Circuit data is processed also to generate a model to simulate terminal characteristics of at least a portion of the circuit connected to the circuit element in response to no other action than the user action to specify the location. The terminal characteristics of the portion of the circuit are simulated with the generated model to evaluate a performance criterion of the circuit.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present general inventive concept examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present general inventive concept by referring to the figures.

An exemplary circuit configuration is illustrated in to define and describe certain basic features of the present general inventive concept. The exemplary circuit may be for example a System in Package SiP as is known in the art and may be divided into separate circuit domains . As used herein a circuit is a physical realization of circuit elements interconnected in accordance with design specifications and a circuit element is a physical realization of an electric or electronic circuit component. A net as used herein is a collection of terminals or pins in the circuit that are to be connected. A circuit domain is a physical division of a circuit into a sub circuit as assigned by the circuit designer. Circuit domains may be separated according to functionality implementation or fabrication technology circuit cost or manufacturing complexity or other criteria set by the circuit designer. It is to be understood that although only two circuit domains are illustrated in any number of circuit domains can be implemented without deviating from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept.

A circuit domain includes at least a a circuit bearing medium such as silicon low temperature co fired ceramic LTCC poly tetrafluoroethene PTFE flame retardant epoxy resin bonded glass fabric ERBGF and other media on which a circuit can be physically realized and b a circuit element realized on the circuit bearing medium. It is to be understood that the same media may be used in separate circuit domains on which corresponding circuit elements are realized. It is to be understood as well that a single net may occupy more than one circuit domain as will be better understood from the descriptions below. Moreover although the circuit domains in are illustrated as placed side by side such is for purposes of description and the present general inventive concept is not limited to how the circuit domains are positioned with respect to one another.

In each exemplary circuit domain a corresponding sub circuit is realized on a corresponding circuit bearing medium . For example sub circuit A illustrated at may be an RF mixed signal e.g. including both analog and digital circuit elements integrated circuit formed on a silicon die and circuit B illustrated at may be a controller and support circuit of the circuit A realized on a suitable dielectric printed circuit board material. Each circuit domain may include a plurality of terminals also referred to herein as pads and pins representatively illustrated at through which sub circuits and are interconnected and through which sub circuits and are connected to an exterior circuit not illustrated . The terminals connecting circuit domain with circuit domain are located within an interface region containing a circuit domain boundary . The interface region as used herein refers to the physical region containing the complete set of terminals establishing electrical continuity between sub circuits in separate domains across the domain boundary. It is to be understood that while the domain boundary in is illustrated as a line such is for purposes of explanation and the present general inventive concept is limited neither by the shape of the domain boundary nor by the arrangement of terminals within the interface region. For example in certain circuit realizations the circuit domains are stacked one upon another and the interface region is defined by a plane. In such realizations the terminals within the interface region may be distributed across the entire plane of the interface region without deviating from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept.

During the design stage of the circuit it may be advantageous to rapidly analyze variants thereof to determine an optimal balance of design considerations. For example the designer may seek an optimal balance of specified signal characteristics at a particular output terminal of the circuit versus the circuit cost and implementation overhead or difficulty to produce one circuit variant over another. As illustrated in a candidate circuit group which may be a single circuit element or a group of circuit elements may be targeted by the designer to be moved out of circuit domain and placed into circuit domain so that the impact on the performance of the circuit or even of sub circuit can be analyzed with the candidate circuit group in circuit domain . In accordance with embodiments of the present general inventive concept the designer can relocate a representation of the candidate circuit group as presented to the designer through a user interface such as that described below into circuit domain .

By way of the action of moving the candidate circuit group such as through a drag and drop user action on the user interface the present general inventive concept executes the necessary data manipulations within a design system operating in accordance with the present general inventive concept so that the circuit variant can be analyzed as to whether the afore mentioned optimal balance of design considerations can be achieved when the circuit is realized on the circuit bearing medium. For example as illustrated in a design system consistent with the present general inventive concept such as described below may place a set of terminals in the interface region to electrically couple a relocated candidate circuit group originally candidate circuit group in accordance with its initial connectivity may route the necessary interconnections from the sub circuit to the relocated candidate circuit group and may form the relocated candidate circuit group on a circuit bearing medium in electrical equivalence with the candidate circuit group . Additionally certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept may adjust the area of a circuit bearing medium by an amount that can be recovered from an area previously occupied by the candidate circuit group and may re route any interconnections on the circuit bearing medium such as is illustrated at the marked region in so as to accommodate the relocated candidate circuit group . Further the present general inventive concept may extract a test circuit from one of the circuit domains and locate appropriate nodes in the test circuit at which to analyze the impact on circuit of moving the candidate circuit group. Any and all of these operations and others may be initiated by only the manipulation of the user interface that relocates the candidate circuit group across a circuit domain boundary. Detailed examples of the foregoing and other concepts of the present general inventive concept are illustrated through specific exemplary embodiments described below.

A storage unit may be utilized to store data and processing instructions on behalf of the exemplary data processing apparatus of . The storage unit may include multiple segments such as a code memory to maintain processor instructions to be executed by the processor and data memory to store data such as data structures on which the processor performs data manipulation operations. The storage unit may include memory that is distributed across components to include among others a cache memory and a pipeline memory.

The data processing apparatus may include a persistent storage system to store data and processing instructions across processing sessions. The persistent storage system may be implemented in a single persistent memory device such as a hard disk drive or may be implemented in multiple persistent memory devices which may be interconnected by a communication network.

It is to be understood that although the functional compartmentalization of the exemplary embodiment of facilitates an understanding of the present general inventive concept through descriptions thereof such configuration is not essential to practice the present general inventive concept. Elements other than those shown and described may be used in place thereof functionality portrayed as being carried out in multiple elements may be combined to be carried out in a single component and elements described as discrete may be distributed across multiple components. Indeed numerous variations alternatives and modifications will become apparent to the skilled artisan upon review of this disclosure and the present general inventive concept is intended to encompass such alternative configurations.

The CDAS may include a process controller to coordinate and control the interoperations of the functional components of the CDAS so as to achieve a fully operational data processing system. For example the process controller may receive data corresponding to user manipulations of the user interface to be described below may format the data into a command and or data location in memory and may convey such information to the applicable functional module of the CDAS . The process controller may subsequently receive processed data from the applicable functional module and forward the data to another functional module as well as to indicate such processing on the user interface . The process controller will perform other coordination and control operations according to the implementation of the CDAS and such other operations as well as the implementation of such can be embodied by a wide range of well known process control methods and apparatuses. The present general inventive concept is intended to encompass all such alternatives of the process controller including multi threaded and distributed process control methodologies.

As indicated above the CDAS may include a user interface through which the CDAS interacts with a user thereof typically a circuit designer. The peripheral devices may include a display unit not illustrated and one or more Human Interface Devices HIDs not illustrated such as a mouse a track ball a stylus a touch screen and or a touchpad among others. The combination of hardware devices and suitably programmed processing instructions executed by the processor form the user interface . The user interface is used in certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept to present data to the user in a meaningful form on a display interface such as through images of circuit schematics circuit layout diagrams circuit test bench interfaces data management interfaces such as file directories and other images recognized by the user.

The user interface may also interpret user manipulations of any HIDs thereof into messages and instructions that can be recognized by the process controller . The user interface may include a plurality of user controls to afford the user interactivity with and control over the CDAS . The user controls may include the HIDs described above and may also include software implemented controls on the display interface such as buttons menus of commands text command entry blocks and other suitable software controls. The foregoing description of the user interface may be met by a suitably configured graphical user interface GUI the implementation details of such will be omitted for the sake of providing a concise description of the general inventive concept.

The CDAS may include a database of circuit objects that maintain all the data necessary to design analyze modify and fabricate a circuit per the specifications of the designer. As used herein a circuit object is a data structure that can be stored in a memory device to contain data of a circuit element so that the circuit element can be viewed modified interconnected with other circuit elements and analyzed in one or more circuit design contexts selected by a user. Such may be achieved by a suitable data abstraction technique so that a particular circuit element may be for example presented as a schematic symbol in a schematic entry design context presented as a footprint in a layout design context presented as a routing component in a circuit routing design context and provided as a component model in a circuit analysis and design verification context. A circuit object may also be hierarchical whereby a circuit object contains other circuit objects of circuit elements interconnected to form a component that has a schematic symbol layout footprint and a terminal characteristics model used as a single element in a circuit. An example of such a circuit object is that of an operational amplifier. It is to be understood that in the descriptions below unless otherwise made clear to the contrary operations described below as being performed on a circuit element implies the operation being performed on the containing circuit object by the components of the CDAS .

It is to be understood that interconnection components such as terminal pads wires conductive traces and segments thereof inter layer vias and ground planes among others are considered circuit elements per the definition given above and may be contained in a corresponding circuit object in memory. Moreover circuit bearing media are also circuit components that may be contained in a circuit object. Accordingly a circuit designer may construct a sub circuit on a circuit bearing medium of for example LTCC and then place the LTCC circuit on a circuit bearing medium of for example ERGBF. The designer may select the circuit bearing medium in a manner similar to selecting any other circuit element.

Database may have formed therein a plurality of databases such as illustrated by database A and database B to respectively maintain circuit data corresponding to respective circuit bearing media. For example database A may contain circuit objects of circuit elements to be realized on silicon and database B may contain circuit objects of circuit elements to be realized on LTCC. Accordingly a circuit object in database A of a 4.7 mH inductor may contain data to produce mask patterns to form a conductive spiral in silicon having an inductance of 4.7 mH. On the other hand a circuit object of the 4.7 mH inductor in database B may contain data to form a conductive spiral on LTCC having an inductance of 4.7 mH. The skilled artisan will recognize that although the two inductors may have ideally the same inductance the terminal characteristics of each inductor may be substantially different due to the respective construction of each. It is to be understood that while only two databases database A and database B are illustrated in the present general inventive concept is intended to implement as many databases as may be required to realize circuitry on the different circuit bearing media types of the different sub circuits in a particular circuit design. For example in addition to the databases A and B described above a third database may be established to maintain circuit objects for PTFE and yet another database may contain circuit objects for ERGBF. It is to be understood also that while the databases A and B are illustrated as separate entities the present general inventive concept is not so limited. For example a single database may contain circuit objects that maintain data of a circuit element in addition to the realization and model data for all of the different circuit bearing media in the circuit.

The circuit objects in database A and database B and any other database may also include data suitable to model parasitic behavior of a circuit element to account for non ideal terminal characteristics of individual components and to account for characteristics of unavoidable mechanical transitions in the circuit. For example referring back to the interface region containing the terminals by which the sub circuits and are interconnected has associated therewith the parasitic capacitance resistance and inductance caused by the mechanical connections required to make the electrical connections. A parasitic model is inserted so that the circuit can be accurately simulated. The parasitic model may be included as data in the circuit object of the circuit element to which it applies and or the parasitic model may be inserted into the circuit as a separate circuit element contained in its own circuit object. The present general inventive concept is not limited by the implementation of the parasitic model.

Circuit storage area is a work space in memory such as in data memory in which to store circuit instances. As used herein a circuit instance is a data structure in memory containing all of the circuit objects necessary to view modify analyze and evaluate a circuit or sub circuit. The circuit storage area may be segmented into circuit storage areas and to be utilized as required to meet a design objective. For example the circuit storage area may have stored therein a circuit instance and the circuit storage area may have stored therein a variant of the circuit stored in circuit storage area . Alternatively circuit storage area may contain a variant of a circuit and circuit storage area may contain a test circuit extracted from the circuit variant to evaluate that variant as will be described below. It is to be understood that although only two circuit storage areas are illustrated in any number of such storage areas may be used to provide the intended purposes as described herein without deviating from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept. Additionally the circuit storage areas may be defined as static memory structures or may be allocated dynamically as needed. The present general inventive concept is not limited to particular implementations of the circuit storage areas.

As illustrated in CDAS may include a circuit data processor to execute the operations necessary to form circuit instances from circuit objects and to modify the circuit instances in accordance with instructions and data obtained from and provided by the process controller . The circuit data processor may implement many design functions including but not limited to circuit layout generation and modification topological and geometrical routing and autorouting schematic diagram entry and modification test circuit extraction and fabrication mask data generation and modification. The present general inventive concept is not limited by a particular implementation of any of the circuit data processing functions of the circuit data processor and any suitable function may be used with the present general inventive concept without deviating from the spirit and intended scope thereof. The circuit data processing functions to carry out the present general inventive concept will be described below as applicable otherwise the implementation details thereof will be omitted for the sake of providing a concise description of the general inventive concept.

The exemplary CDAS includes an analyzer that produces analytical data obtained from simulations of a circuit under test CUT which may be for example a variant of a circuit or a test circuit extracted from the circuit variant as described below. The analyzer may implement many analytical functions including but not limited to signal analysis manufacturing cost analysis and fabrication difficulty analysis. The present general inventive concept is not limited to a particular implementation of any of the analysis functions of the analyzer and any suitable function that performs the intended purpose as described herein may be used with the present general inventive concept without deviating from the spirit and intended scope thereof. Certain features of the analyzer and the analysis functions to carry out the present general inventive concept will be described below as applicable otherwise the implementation details thereof will be omitted for the sake of providing a concise description of the general inventive concept.

A circuit design may be modified by moving a circuit element from one circuit domain to another such as illustrated in by way of a user manipulation of user controls of the user interface . In the interest of succinctness a user manipulation of a user control will be referred to herein as a user control action which includes typing a command on a keyboard to enter a text command clicking on a software button to execute a corresponding command and the drag and drop operation whereby a user selects an item with a mouse click moves the item by holding down the mouse button and moving the mouse in the direction in which the selected item is to be moved and placing the item in the new location by releasing the mouse button double clicking an item to perform a command on the item and other such actions. Additionally a user control action that moves a circuit element to a new location in the design will be referred to herein as a user move action.

When a circuit element or group of elements is moved from one domain to another a change in at least one circuit variant metric occurs. As used herein a circuit variant metric is a circuit parameter suitable to measure the benefit and or detriment of moving the circuit element such as a change in the area of the circuit bearing medium on one or both sides of the domain boundary a change in the performance of the circuit as measured by for example simulated signal to noise ratio and other parameters that are of interest to evaluate the circuit variant created by the move. In accordance with the present general inventive concept in response to a user move action that results in a circuit element or group of elements to cross a circuit domain boundary the circuit design is altered so that the relocation of the circuit element can be physically realized on circuit bearing media on which the boundary is defined and at least one circuit variant metric is presented to the user. That is the user need only to manipulate a user control to indicate to the CDAS that a candidate circuit group has crossed a domain boundary and the necessary design changes to realize the circuit are implemented without further user action and at least one circuit parameter suitable to at least partially evaluate the impact of the change may also reported without further user action.

Portions of the CDAS may be implemented by a suitable Electronic Design Automation EDA system having similar features as those described above. The present general inventive concept may be practiced by an existing EDA system having the novel features described herein incorporated therein. Such incorporation may be carried out by altering the program code of the EDA system or may be incorporated as a functional module to interact with an existing EDA system through for example an Application Programming Interface API or other such mechanism.

In the paragraphs that follow the present general inventive concept will be further described and explained through specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It is to be understood that although operations below are described as though graphic manipulations are occurring such as moving an element on the display of the user interface such is for description purposes and the underlying operations that are performed by coordinated processes of the circuit design system are implied as would be appreciated by the ordinarily skilled artisan.

For purposes of illustration and not limitation a radio frequency System in Package RF SiP will exemplify the circuit of interest a radio frequency System on a Chip RF SoC will exemplify a sub circuit A and a circuit to support the RF SiP formed on LTCC will exemplify sub circuit B. In the interest of succinctness RF SoC sub circuit will be referred to as the DIE circuit even though the silicon circuit bearing medium may contain more than one sub circuit in the DIE circuit domain and the sub circuitry formed on the LTCC will be referred to the LTCC circuit even though the LTCC circuit bearing medium may contain more than one sub circuit in the LTCC domain. An inductor in the DIE circuit will exemplify the candidate circuit group being moved and the circuit variant to be considered is the RF SiP with the inductor relocated to the LTCC domain. Whereas the exemplary embodiment presently described and described below are directed towards RF SiP designs the general inventive concept can be readily extended to other circuit configurations and applications as will be recognized by the ordinarily skilled artisan upon review of the present disclosure.

Each domain includes all of the circuit objects of the circuit elements therein. For example as illustrated in the exemplary DIE domain includes transistor circuit objects which contain the data so that the corresponding transistor can be among other things viewed on the display interface through one or more representations thereof modeled and analyzed through circuit simulations and realized on the silicon circuit bearing medium. In addition to other circuit objects the exemplary DIE domain includes a spiral inductor circuit object of a spiral inductor which contains the data so that the inductor may be viewed on the display interface through one or more representations thereof modeled and analyzed through circuit simulations and realized on the silicon circuit bearing medium.

Similar to the DIE domain the LTCC domain may include circuit objects of various circuit elements and circuits on dies as represented by block . Additionally the LTCC domain may include a circuit object of an inductor having the same value of inductance as the inductor in circuit object but with the data to be modeled and analyzed based on its construction on LTCC and data to realize the inductor on LTCC. An inductor realized in silicon may be of a different physical size and have different terminal characteristics as an inductor realized on LTCC or another circuit bearing medium and it is these differences that can be readily evaluated by the various embodiments of the present general inventive concept.

Certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept implement a push pull device as illustrated at block which affords a designer the capability to push circuit elements onto one circuit bearing medium for example the silicon medium of the DIE domain from another circuit bearing medium for example the LTCC medium and to pull a circuit element in the reverse direction. Such action further allows reverting back to a previous variant in which the candidate circuit group back is placed onto the medium from which it was pulled or pushed. As illustrated in block the push pull device of the present general inventive concept performs a plurality of operations in response to no other action than to move the circuit element in one direction or the other across the domain boundary. It is to be understood that operations in addition to and other than those illustrated in and described below may be implemented without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present general inventive concept as will be recognized by the ordinarily skilled artisan upon review of this disclosure.

Referring to there is illustrated an exemplary user interface display on which a designer may execute a user move action. In the illustrated example a DIE domain is enclosed by a DIE domain boundary and the circuitry external to the DIE domain boundary is in an LTCC circuit domain . Through a drag and drop operation for example the designer may pull an inductor from the DIE domain into the LTCC domain . The relocated inductor may be replaced or swapped with for example an inductor as described below and the connectivity of the inductor is maintained through connections . It is to be understood that the connections indicate only connectivity and may not be in the configuration of a physical connection on the circuit bearing media. In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept the circuit data processor may forestall routing the connections until the acceptance of the design variant by designer. However if processing capability of an embodied CDAS permits rapid routing operations such routing may be initiated upon the inductor being placed so that the variant may also be evaluated in terms of design rule checks DRCs .

In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept the layout binding of the candidate circuit group in this case the inductor may be changed to be accommodated in the layout of the target domain. This operation may be achieved by associating a circuit object in one database such as database with one or more circuit objects of electrically equivalent circuit elements in another database such as database . The association may be achieved by any suitable technique such as including a reference to the circuit objects of any electrically equivalent circuit elements as a data field in the circuit objects themselves.

In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept as the designer pulls the inductor from the DIE through for example a drag and drop user move action the user interface displays the representation of the inductor in an alternative graphic once it has crossed the circuit domain boundary. Prior to the designer releasing the button on the HID on which the drag and drop user move action is being performed the designer may select from any of the electrically equivalent circuit elements through for example another button on the HID. For example if the HID is a mouse the drag and drop user move action may be performed by selecting the inductor with a left button and holding down the left button as the inductor is being dragged to its new location. Once the designer has dragged the inductor across the domain boundary the designer may then activate the right button by for example the well known right click mouse operation to select one of the associated electrically equivalent circuit elements. Such selection of alternatives may be accomplished by any suitable technique such as by presenting to the designer a context menu of all the electrically equivalent components upon a single press of the right button or may be accomplished by cycling through the associated electrically equivalent circuit elements each time the right button is pressed. Once the designer has selected the desired equivalent element the designer may release the left button to drop the element into the target circuit domain. It is to be understood that other user move actions may be performed to relocate the electrical component and other techniques to present the electrically equivalent circuit elements may also be implemented without deviating from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept.

The push pull device may also change component footprints in the design in response to no other user action than the user move action to relocate the candidate user group. illustrates different views of a user interface prior to relocating inductor . View is the previously described schematic view view is the layout interface of the LTCC circuit bearing medium and view is the layout interface of the DIE circuit bearing medium. As can be readily observed from the figure the inductor occupies a predefined area of the DIE medium as indicated at L. The area of the inductor on the DIE medium defines at least in part the footprint of the DIE on the LTCC circuit bearing medium. illustrates the same views and with the inductor moved to the LTCC domain. As is illustrated the footprint of the DIE is smaller and the area occupied on the LTCC circuit bearing medium is larger. This change in footprint may be presented to the designer seamlessly through no other user action than the user move action that relocated the inductor into the LTCC domain.

The push pull device may also change the interface between circuit domains in accordance with the relocation of the candidate circuit group without any other action than the user move action. In the present example since the inductor is being moved off of the DIE circuit bearing medium and onto the LTCC circuit bearing medium electrical continuity must be established between the DIE circuit and the inductor on the LTCC medium. Thus when the inductor has crossed the circuit domain boundary an indication of such may be provided to the circuit data processor such as by a signal or an interprocess message. Once the inductor has been placed or re placed the circuit data processor may create instances of circuit objects containing interconnection pads and may then insert the pads into the design on each side of the circuit domain boundary as is illustrated in . The circuit data processor of may then execute an autorouting function to construct the interconnections between the DIE circuit and the inductor through the interconnection pads where the interconnections may be stored in one or more circuit objects in each of the domain databases. If the inductor is being moved onto the DIE medium from the LTCC medium the interconnection pads and the associated interconnecting conductor paths would be removed and the autorouter may perform routing on the DIE medium as needed.

The push pull device of the present general inventive concept may also modify the parasitic coupling and terminal characteristics model according to the new location of the candidate circuit group. As stated above the inductor realized on the LTCC medium will have different terminal characteristics than when realized on silicon which is one motivating factor in exploring the feasibility of the circuit variant. However the interconnection pads and interconnecting paths introduce non ideal circuit behavior by way of their mechanical construction. The present general inventive concept may modify the circuit accordingly without any other user action than the user move action to relocate the candidate circuit group. In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept the circuit objects of circuit elements have stored therein data from which a simulation model may be constructed which includes parasitic coupling data. The model data may be provided to the analyzer with which circuit functional simulations are executed and analyzed such as described further below.

The push pull device of the present general inventive concept may also change the constraints and tolerances assigned to the candidate circuit group to correspond to the circuit construction of the target circuit bearing medium. For example a spacing constraint between conductive paths on silicon may be 2 microns whereas the spacing constraint on an LTCC substrate may be 10 microns. Thus the appropriate constraints are provided to the circuit data processor so that the inductor is constructed on the LTCC substrate within the tolerances specified for that medium.

As is illustrated in and the description thereof multiple circuit modifications may be incorporated into the SiP design without any other user action on the user interface than the user move action to move the candidate circuit group. In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept a circuit variant is created by copying one of the domains into a circuit storage area so that an original of the domain can thereby be preserved. A change history of each variant may be stored in memory and any variant can be converted back to a previous version by for example a user selection of a menu item providing the available versions. The present general inventive concept is not limited by the storage of circuit variants and other techniques may be used to provide rapid conversion between versions of circuit variants. The present general inventive concept is intended to encompass all such variations thereof.

To evaluate circuit variants the present general inventive concept further provides seamless analysis tools so that the trade offs between for example circuit performance and circuit cost can be properly weighed. In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept at least one circuit parameter that can be used to evaluate the trade off is presented to the designer by no other user action than the user move action that created the variant. For example as described above the impact of the DIE footprint on the area of the LTCC circuit bearing medium may be presented to the designer responsive to the drag and drop operation on the user interface. This as well as other circuit parameters may be presented solely by the user move action and no other user action on the user interface .

In a hierarchical block diagram is illustrated to describe exemplary analysis features of the present general inventive concept. Blocks and encompass the totality of the design system and the SiP circuit respectively as in the hierarchy described with regard to . The SiP circuit may be embodied in any one of a wide range of variants two of which are illustrated at blocks and . In the example of only two variants and are illustrated although the present general inventive concept is not limited to the number of variants being concurrently evaluated. Each of the variants may be stored in a separate workspace in memory such as in circuit storage areas illustrated in . The variants and may be evaluated such as illustrated by evaluation block to determine which is optimal with respect to the designer s criteria.

As stated above one or more parameters by which a variant may be evaluated is generated without any further user action on the user interface than the user move action that defined the circuit variant. To this end for example the user move action may trigger the generation of a signal or interprocess message to the circuit data processor to calculate the areas of the circuit bearing media and to report the area calculations to the designer. In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept the area is presented as a ratio of the area of a circuit bearing medium in the most recently created variant to the area of the circuit bearing medium of a previous variant. Other such reports such as the Bill of Materials report indicated in block may be generated in a manner similar to the area report. The general inventive concept is not limited to the content and format of such reports and various levels of detail therein may be implemented without deviating from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept.

In addition to reporting the changes in physical construction attributes of a circuit variant the present general inventive concept may extract a test circuit suitable to evaluate the performance of the variant and execute circuit simulations using only the extracted test circuit as is illustrated in block . When so embodied the present general inventive concept advantageously circumvents time consuming circuit simulation and analysis of the entire design.

In there is illustrated an exemplary test circuit extraction process to be described in conjunction with the schematic diagrams of . Referring first to there is illustrated a schematic diagram of a portion of a circuit variant connected at an output thereof to a load model . The load model incorporates the inductor with the parasitic elements associated with for example the interconnections with the DIE circuit through terminal pads and wire segments. It is to be understood that the present general inventive concept is not limited to the particular model used to simulate the behavior of the relocated candidate circuit group and that the load model is simplified. Additionally while the load model is illustrated in to depict an exemplary parasitic model of a relocated inductor certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept disregard the structure of the model in the test circuit extraction process. Accordingly the load model will be referred to simply as the inductor in the exemplary test extraction process described below. Moreover although the description below is provided with reference to the schematic diagrams of the test circuit extraction process may be performed on circuit objects in the database and or in circuit storage areas without the circuit variant being rendered as an image on the display .

In operation the active block connected to the candidate circuit group is identified. Such is illustrated in where the amplifier in block is the active circuit element driving the inductor . The active block may be identified responsive to the user move action that relocates the inductor . As described above a signal or interprocess message may be provided to the process controller once the candidate circuit group has crossed the applicable domain boundary. Consequently through no other user action on the user interface than the user move action that relocates the candidate circuit group the operations of process may be executed.

Once the active block has been identified in operation process transitions to operation whereby the two terminal circuit elements terminating on the active block referred to herein as immediate elements are selected to be included in the test circuit. The immediate elements are illustrated in the ovals in . The process proceeds to operation whereby the circuit elements in the loop X net defined by the immediate elements are selected. A loop X net is a net starting at one node in the circuit and completing a loop at another node in the circuit in this case a node on the active block . Accordingly the loop X net circuit elements in the loop defined by the immediate elements are illustrated in the rectangles of .

As illustrated in the test circuit extraction process transitions to operation whereby all of the bias elements connected to the immediate elements and the loop X net elements are selected to be included in the test circuit. The bias elements include the power sources and the ground nodes such as the power nodes and and the ground node illustrated in the triangles of . In operation any two terminal circuit elements that are in the X net defined by the bias net are included in the test circuit. This may include any bypass capacitors which have been omitted from to avoid congesting the diagram. In operation the controllable nodes are identified as those nodes of nets connecting the included elements other than the loop net elements. The extracted test circuit is illustrated in with the controllable nodes being connected to the analyzer I O for performance analysis of the circuit variant.

In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept the circuit objects containing the test circuit as extracted by no other user action on the user interface than the user move action are provided to the analyzer to perform circuit simulation thereon. For example the circuit objects of the extracted test circuit may include a hardware description language HDL model or similar component abstraction that defines the functional behavior of the test circuit which may then be used to simulate a wide variety of conditions such as changes in quality factor resulting from moving a candidate circuit group across a domain boundary and parasitic loading of the test circuit caused by the connections across a domain boundary. The present general inventive concept is not limited by specific analysis techniques and many different analyses and circuit simulations may employed by the analyzer to evaluate a circuit variant without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the present general inventive concept.

The graph illustrated in is an exemplary output of the analyzer which may be displayed on the display interface of user interface . The illustrated example of is a magnitude plot of the scattering parameter S indicative of the voltage reflection coefficient corresponding to the input port of test circuit formed from controllable nodes under a load of for example the inductor with parasitic loading corresponding to interconnections across a silicon LTCC domain boundary. The exemplary simulation results indicate an impedance mismatch between 2.26 GHz and 2.68 GHz and the designer can readily view this condition and determine if such mismatch is acceptable. If the mismatch is not acceptable to the designer foe example the original circuit may be re established as the selected design or a new circuit variant may be formed and evaluated.

In certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept the output graph illustrated in may be displayed on the user interface responsive to no other user action thereon than the user move action. Moreover one or more of the views illustrated in and as well as others may be displayed concurrently in response to only the user move action such as through multiple windows in a windowed graphical user interface.

Certain embodiments of the present general inventive concept provide for the functional components to manufactured transported marketed and or sold as processor instructions encoded on computer readable media. The present general inventive concept when so embodied can be practiced regardless of the processing platform on which the processor instructions are executed and regardless of the manner by which the processor instructions are encoded on the medium.

It is to be understood that the computer readable medium described above may be any medium on which the instructions may be encoded and then subsequently retrieved decoded and executed by a processor including electrical magnetic and optical storage devices and wired wireless optical and acoustical communication channels. The computer readable medium may include either or both of persistent storage referred to herein as computer readable recording media and as spatiotemporal storage referred to herein as computer readable transmission media . Examples of computer readable recording media include but not limited to read only memory ROM random access memory RAM and other electrical storage CD ROM DVD and other optical storage and magnetic tape floppy disks hard disks and other magnetic storage. The computer readable recording media may be distributed across components to include such distribution through storage systems interconnected through a communication network. The computer readable transmission media may transmit encoded instructions on electromagnetic carrier waves or signals or as acoustic signals through acoustically transmissive media. Moreover the processor instructions may be derived from algorithmic constructions of the present general inventive concept in various programming languages the mere contemplation of which illustrates the numerous realizable abstractions of the present general inventive concept.

The descriptions above are intended to illustrate possible implementations of the present inventive concept and are not restrictive. Many variations modifications and alternatives will become apparent to the skilled artisan upon review of this disclosure. For example components equivalent to those shown and described may be substituted therefore elements and methods individually described may be combined and elements described as discrete may be distributed across many components. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the description above but with reference to the appended claims along with their full range of equivalence.

