---

title: Method, system and software for maintaining network access and security
abstract: A system, method and apparatus for securing communications between a trusted network and an untrusted network are disclosed. A perimeter client is deployed within the trusted network and communicates over a session multiplexing enabled protocol with a perimeter server deployed within a demilitarized zone network. The perimeter client presents requests to make available and communication initiation requests to the perimeter server which presents corresponding sockets to the entrusted network. The session multiplexing capabilities of the protocol used between the perimeter server and perimeter client permit a single communication session therebetween to support a plurality of communication sessions between the perimeter server and untrusted network. In the event data flows across the communication sessions are encrypted, decryption of the data flows is left to the components at the end points of the communication session, thereby restricting exposure of privileged information to areas within trusted networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07900249&OS=07900249&RS=07900249
owner: Sterling Commerce, Inc.
number: 07900249
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081023
---
The present invention relates generally to information sharing and more particularly to providing improved network security.

In general network security concerns private network perimeter protection. To such an end firewalls and intrusion detection tools are often employed. Firewalls may be generally defined as exclusionary mechanisms screening requests as they arrive and refusing access to users and protocols failing to establish access rights to trusted networks. In such environment new users and applications often require new rules thereby increasing implementation complexity as network enabled applications proliferate.

To limit or eliminate direct communications between trusted and untrusted networks organizations may employ demilitarized zone DMZ networks. A DMZ network may be characterized as one or more intermediary areas where application or user access to trusted networks is screened or authorized. In complex applications such as encryption and authentication authorization mechanisms processing perimeter requests typically creates complexity and bottlenecks. As a result performance degradation user inconvenience and administration overhead plague secure applications needing to cross the perimeter. These and other problems are often exacerbated when multiple participants seek to cross the perimeter each with their own security guidelines and architecture.

Preferred embodiments and their advantages are best understood by reference to wherein like numbers are used to indicate like and corresponding parts.

Referring first to a schematic diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a communications system indicated generally at is shown. Communication system may include communication network in communication with one or more gateway devices and . Input output I O devices and are each preferably in communication with respective gateway devices and . Accordingly I O devices and may be in selective communication with each other via gateway devices and and communication network .

In one embodiment communication network may be a public switched telephone network PSTN . In alternate embodiments communication network may include a cable telephony network an IP Internet Protocol telephony network a wireless network a hybrid Cable PSTN network a hybrid IP PSTN network a hybrid wireless PSTN network or any other suitable communication network or combination of communication networks.

Gateways and preferably provide I O devices and with an entrance to communication network and may include software and hardware components to manage traffic entering and exiting communication network and conversion between the communication protocols used by I O devices and and communication network . In some embodiments gateways and may function as a proxy server and a firewall server for I O devices and . In some embodiments gateways and may be associated with a router not expressly shown operable to direct a given packet of data that arrives at gateway or and a switch not expressly shown operable to provide a communication path in to and out of gateway or .

In an exemplary embodiment I O devices and may include a variety of forms of communication equipment connected to communication network and accessible to a user. I O devices and may be telephones wireline or wireless dial up modems cable modems DSL digital subscriber line modems phone sets fax equipment answering machines set top boxes televisions POS point of sale equipment PBX private branch exchange systems personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs SDRs other nascent technologies or other types or combinations of communication equipment available to a user. I O devices and may be equipped for connectivity to communication network via a PSTN DSL cable network wireless network or other communications channel.

Referring now to an alternate embodiment of an exemplary communications system incorporating teachings of the present invention is shown. In the exemplary embodiment shown communications system includes untrusted network in communication with demilitarized network DMZ . DMZ network is also shown in communication with secure or trusted network . Accordingly untrusted network and trusted network may be in selective communication with one another through DMZ network .

According to teachings of the present invention trusted network may differ from untrusted network in myriad respects. In an exemplary embodiment input output I O devices included in trusted network preferably have access and rights to modify privileged information. Such capability is unavailable to I O devices in networks having a lower level of trust such as untrusted network . Variations in trusted and untrusted networks may be observed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention.

Depending upon implementation untrusted network may be configured in myriad formats. As illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of untrusted network includes a plurality of components and . Components and may include client systems server systems combinations of client and server systems as well as other network operable devices.

Components and as illustrated in exemplary untrusted network embodiment may be coupled to DMZ network through one or more bridging networks . For example components and may be included in a private network that is coupled to external networks through one or more DMZ networks or other network arrangements. Other implementations and configurations of an untrusted network are contemplated within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Like untrusted network DMZ network may be implemented in a variety of configurations. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in DMZ network is in communication with untrusted network via front or first firewall bridge . Similarly DMZ network is in communication with trusted network through back or second firewall bridge .

As described above a DMZ network may be generally characterized as an intermediary area operable to screen or authorize applications or users seeking access to trusted networks. As shown in the exemplary embodiment of DMZ network illustrated in a plurality of components may be included therein. According to teachings of the present invention among the components preferably included in DMZ network is perimeter server . Preferred capabilities of perimeter server are discussed in greater detail below.

As illustrated in to the exemplary embodiment of trusted network preferably includes a plurality of components and and perimeter client . Depending upon implementation components and perimeter client may be implemented as one or more clients servers other network compatible devices or some combination thereof. Also depending upon implementation perimeter client may be implemented within or hosted by one or more of trusted network components and . Preferred capabilities of perimeter client are discussed in greater detail below. In addition other configurations are available to effectively implement teachings of the present invention. For example trusted network may include one or more bridging networks DMZ networks or other communicative devices or arrangements.

According to one implementation of teachings of the present invention enhanced network security may be provided through the capabilities discussed herein and implemented in perimeter server and perimeter client . In an exemplary embodiment perimeter client is preferably implemented as a software module included on one or more components and included in trusted network .

In an exemplary embodiment of the teachings of the present invention perimeter client is preferably operable and or configured to provide one or more socket programming application programming interfaces API for utilization by components and of trusted network and potentially by one or more aspects of DMZ network . In general according to teachings of the present invention TCP IP based communication protocol clients and or servers in trusted network preferably employ one or more services provided by perimeter client to await inbound TCP IP socket connections and initiate outbound TCP IP socket connections as well as perform other operations. Perimeter server is preferably operable and or configured to enact socket requests received from trusted network components via perimeter client through such operations as binding to ports accepting externally initiated connections and initiating connections to external hosts.

In operation socket operations and other communications are preferably relayed between perimeter client and perimeter server via an application specific protocol P. Protocol P may assume a variety of forms. General guidelines for the capabilities recommended for a protocol P selection are discussed herein. At a minimum protocol P preferably supports communication session multiplexing.

Referring now to a schematic diagram depicting another exemplary embodiment of a communication system incorporating teachings of the present invention is shown. Exemplary communication system of similar to communication system of includes untrusted network in communication with DMZ network . In addition communication system also includes trusted network in communication with DMZ network . Accordingly untrusted network and trusted network may be in selective communication with one another through DMZ network .

Within DMZ network as illustrated in perimeter server may be operating in association with one or more hosts or components . In an alternate embodiment perimeter server may be implemented within one or more processes operating on host or component . Alternative configurations for the implementation of perimeter server within DMZ network are contemplated within the teachings of the present invention.

Within trusted network as illustrated in exemplary communication system of perimeter client may be operating in association with one or more trusted network components . In one aspect perimeter client may be implemented within one or more processes operating on trusted network host or component . A plurality of additional trusted network components or applications such as client or server components and may also be hosted by one or more processes operating on trusted network host or component . Alternative configurations for implementing or deploying perimeter client within trusted network are contemplated within the teachings of the present invention.

In one aspect depicts an exemplary configuration of the present invention with perimeter server deployed in DMZ network and an application utilizing perimeter client deployed inside trusted network . In the illustrated exemplar arrows and depict communication connections between components. It should be noted that the depicted communication connections are actually flowing over physical network components such as bridging network front and back firewalls and respectively etc.

According to teachings of the present invention one or more protocol clients and servers such as trusted network components and preferably utilize perimeter client and its associated one or more socket APIs to initiate or otherwise facilitate communication connections with one or more untrusted network components. Requests for the initiation of a communication session from a trusted network component are sent to perimeter client and preferably converted to protocol P by perimeter client before being sent to perimeter server for processing as described herein. In addition the one or more trusted network protocol clients and servers may utilize perimeter client and its associated socket APIs to present passive sockets to which one or more untrusted network components such as components and may initiate or accept communication connections with one or more trusted network components. In an exemplary embodiment of a perimeter services solution incorporating teachings of the present invention the one or more protocol clients and servers are preferably co resident with perimeter client .

Upon initiation of process and or associated perimeter client a plurality of TCP IP sessions are preferably established. In a preferred embodiment perimeter client upon initiation and not requiring an initiation of external communication request from a trusted network component establishes a predetermined number of TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet protocol sessions with perimeter server as indicated at arrow . In addition in an exemplary embodiment the TCP IP sessions initiated by perimeter client are preferably substantially continuously maintained i.e. they are substantially persistent. The directionality of arrow suggests that TCP IP sessions are established from perimeter client to perimeter server not in the other direction.

In one aspect pre establishing substantially persistent communication connections between perimeter client and perimeter server and carrying perimeter client requests perimeter server responses and subsequent session data over the same connections reduces or eliminates situations where perimeter server within less trusted DMZ network exposes one or more items of privileged or secure data to initiate a connection to a component within trusted network . This limited or restricted exposure of sensitive data is in harmony with network security best practices and also minimizes configuration requirements in firewall bridge .

According to teachings of the present invention in addition to communication session initiation requests untrusted network originating contact requests and responses flowing between perimeter client and perimeter server subsequent communication session data flows in both directions preferably take place over the same pre established substantially persistent TCP IP communication sessions initiated by perimeter client . In one embodiment this communication session data may include application level protocols implemented by one or more protocol clients and or servers as well as one or more protocols implemented by software resident on one or more of the communicating untrusted network components. Example application level protocols include secure FTP file transfer protocol HTTP S hypertext transfer protocol over secure socket layer .

In for example trusted network component might implement a HTTP S server and trusted network component might implement a secure FTP server. Through the one or more socket APIs available from perimeter client substantially any TCP IP based protocol client or server may be implemented so as to benefit from the perimeter services configuration teachings of the present invention.

In operation at the TCP IP protocol layer there are preferably a fixed number of sessions between perimeter client and perimeter server . In accordance with teachings of the present invention this number of sessions preferably does not grow one to one with the number of sessions between perimeter server and the one or more untrusted network components communicating with one or more trusted network components. For these teachings of the present invention to be effected it must be true that each communication session between perimeter server and perimeter client is capable of managing the communication connections for a plurality of communication sessions between perimeter server and a plurality of untrusted network components. In other words the communication connection ratio between perimeter client to perimeter server connections and perimeter server to untrusted network connections is a one to many ratio.

Referring now to an alternate embodiment of a telecommunication system incorporating teachings of the present invention is shown. As shown in arrow illustrates a single communication session between perimeter client and perimeter server . According to teachings of the present invention and as generally described above single communication session is preferably operable to carry potentially many virtualized TCP IP communication sessions. It is in part by these means that end to end connectivity may be established between a plurality of untrusted network components and one or more trusted network components and such as protocol client servers. The ability of protocol P to carry more than one communication session per physical communication connection between perimeter server and perimeter client is often termed session multiplexing.

In network communications generally sockets are a precious resource. If protocol P were not able to multiplex communication sessions perimeter server would be required to maintain a socket connection for each TCP IP communication session from perimeter server to an untrusted network component and a socket connection for each communication connection between perimeter server and perimeter client . As such without the benefit of teachings of the present invention each physical TCP IP session consumes two sockets one for the appropriate protocol client server or and one for its associated untrusted network component or . Accordingly without session multiplexing two sockets would be consumed on perimeter server for each communication session with untrusted network components etc. In addition one socket would be consumed on perimeter client for each communication session with the one or more untrusted network components etc. In all that is three sockets for each communication session between an untrusted network component and a trusted network component. However with session multiplexing only one socket need be consumed on perimeter server per untrusted network component communication session. As implemented in the present invention many untrusted network component communication sessions share each multiplexed communication connection between perimeter server and perimeter client amortizing the cost of those sockets. Again as mentioned above enabling a one to many relationship between the number of sockets required between perimeter client and perimeter server and between perimeter server and between perimeter server and a plurality of untrusted network components.

Implementing a communications system in accordance with the perimeter services teachings of the present invention enables critical security functionality to be effected entirely inside trusted network instead of inside less trusted DMZ network . In addition transport level security such as that provided by Secure Sockets Layer SSL and Transport Later Security TLS can be implemented above the APIs of perimeter client . Many positive performance and security ramifications flow from enabling such a configuration.

Continuing with three end to end communication sessions are generally shown. A first end to end communication session between untrusted network component and trusted network component is depicted generally at arrows and . A second end to end communication session between untrusted network component and trusted network component is depicted generally at arrows and . A third end to end communication session between untrusted network component and trusted network component is depicted generally at arrows and .

According to teachings of the present invention a communication session between one or more untrusted network components and one or more trusted network components may employ a variety of communication protocols. For example the communication session indicated by arrows and may be facilitated by one or more TCP IP protocols between perimeter server and untrusted network component at arrow via protocol P at arrow between perimeter server and perimeter client and via a third protocol between perimeter client and trusted network component . The communication sessions depicted generally by arrows and as well as by and may be similarly implemented. Other implementations are sequences of communication protocols may be used in accordance with the teachings of the present invention.

Communication session depicted by arrows and and and represent protected communication sessions between untrusted network components and and trusted network components and respectively. Represented as solid lines communication sessions and and and are preferably subjected to at least transport layer cryptography. For example communication sessions and and and may be implemented as encrypted sessions subjected to SSL or TLS security. Communication sessions and and and and or their respective data flows may also be subjected to additional cryptographic operations.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention perimeter server serves as a conduit for communications authorized or permitted to occur between untrusted network and perimeter client . In such a capacity perimeter server determines whether an untrusted network component communication should be passed to perimeter client and in some instances wraps or packages the untrusted network component communication in protocol P before passing the untrusted network component communication to perimeter client for processing in accordance therewith. As such as described above in a communications system implemented in accordance with teachings of the present invention no cryptographic operations are performed on communication sessions by perimeter server or perimeter client . Instead cryptographic operations may be performed at the end points of a communication session e.g. at either the trusted network component or untrusted network component participating in a particular communication session. In this manner computing resources may be conserved and the exposure of security certificates is confined within trusted network instead of less trusted DMZ network .

According to teachings of the present invention security certificates represent one of many possible types of sensitive information and services securely manipulable by a trusted network component such as protocol client or server or . Other examples of sensitive information which may be further protected in accordance with teachings of the present invention include without limitation database management systems and enterprise resource planning ERP applications. With the perimeter services teachings of the present invention in place secure efficient manageable bridges between trusted network services components and untrusted network services components may be established.

Communication session arrows and represented with dashed lines indicates a communication session unencrypted at the transport layer. As there is no transport layer security implemented on flows communication session and no cryptographic operations are performed on that session s data by perimeter server or perimeter client . Although communication session and is not subjected to transport layer security the data flows communicated thereon may be subject to one or more data level security measures. In such an implementation a recipient trusted network component and or untrusted network component is preferably operable to perform any cryptographic operations necessary to access the data.

The present invention substantially alleviates performance congestion and security and administration issues in situations where communications need to traverse the perimeter of trusted networks. Teachings of the present invention are substantially protocol independent and its implementation and configurations are comprehensible to persons familiar with the art. The present invention may be used as a component in proprietary products as well as in conjunction with other applications including proxies and hardware firewalls.

Although the disclosed embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made to the embodiments without departing from their spirit and scope.

