---

title: Current source driver for common ground signal interface
abstract: A mobile computing device comprises a housing, a memory, a first current source driver, an audio interface and a processing circuit. The housing is configured to be held in a hand during use. The memory is configured to store audio data. The audio interface comprises a first terminal, a second terminal, and a common ground terminal for the first and second terminals. The processing circuit is configured to control the first current source driver to provide a first audio signal on the first terminal based on the audio data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937109&OS=07937109&RS=07937109
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07937109
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080124
---
Electronic circuits sometimes share wires to reduce pin count failure modes and cost. Some electronic circuits share a common ground terminal for two or more signals traveling from one portion of the circuit to another.

In one particular example mobile computing devices operating according to the CEA 936A universal serial bus USB standard can share a ground terminal in certain configurations. The CEA 936A standard supports analog accessories such as telephony and multimedia headsets. Audio signals communicated between the mobile computing device and accessories share a ground terminal.

Described herein is a system and method for improving the quality of data signals transmitted between two electronic circuits sharing a common or same ground terminal. Described herein is also a system and method for improving the quality of audio data communicated between devices operating in accordance with the CEA 936A standard. Described herein is also a system and method for overcoming ground loop problems inherent in communication interfaces operating in accordance with the CEA 936A standard in which audio and logic signals share a single common ground connection.

Described herein is also a system and method for improving signal integrity and noise problems associated with electronic circuits sharing a common ground terminal for multiple data signals. Described herein is also a system and method for meeting audio quality needs associated with multimedia or compact disk CD quality requirements.

Described herein is also a system and method for a mobile computing device and or a separate audio device in communication with the mobile computing device for improving audio sound quality for telephony digital audio playing multimedia and other audio applications.

The teachings herein extend to those embodiments which fall within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above mentioned exemplary advantages.

Referring to a mobile computing device is shown from various angles according to an exemplary embodiment. is a front view of device is a rear view of device are side views of device and are top and bottom views of device . The device may be any type of communications or computing device e.g. a cellular phone other mobile device digital media player e.g. audio or audio video personal digital assistant etc. .

Device may be a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant PDA functionality. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer etc. . PDA functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording location based services device backup and lock media playing internet browsing etc. and is configured to synchronize personal information e.g. contacts e mail calendar notes to do list etc. from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download Secure Digital card etc.

Device may be a handheld computer e.g. a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants or other similar pocket comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and PDAs but the term handheld and the phrase configured to be held in a hand during use excluding typical laptop computers and tablet personal computers PCs for purposes of this disclosure. In alternative embodiments the teachings herein may extend to laptop computers tablet PCs desktop PCS and other electronic devices. In some embodiments the teachings herein may extend to any electronic device in which a CEA 936A standard is used or to other electronic devices. The various input devices audio circuits and other devices of device as described below may be positioned anywhere on device e.g. the front side of the rear side of the sides of etc. .

Device includes various user input devices therein. Examples of functions the user input devices may have include a send button configured to select options appearing on display and or send messages a 5 way navigator configured to navigate through options appearing on display a power end button configured to select options appearing on display and to turn on display a phone button usable to access a phone application screen a calendar button usable to access a calendar application screen a messaging button usable to access a messaging application screen e.g. e mail text MMS etc. an applications button usable to access a screen showing available applications a thumb keyboard which includes a phone dial pad usable to dial during a phone application a volume button usable to adjust the volume of audio output of device a customizable button which a user may customize to perform various functions a ringer switch usable to switch the device from one mode to another mode such as switching from a normal ringer mode to a meeting ringer mode and a touch screen display usable to select control options displayed on display .

Device also includes various audio circuits. The audio circuits may include phone speaker usable to listen to information in a normal phone mode external speaker louder than the phone speaker e.g. for listening to music for a speakerphone mode etc. headset jack to which a user can attach an external headset which may include a speaker and or a microphone and a microphone which can be used to pick up audio information such as the user s end of a conversation during a phone call.

Device may also include a status indicator that can be used to indicate the status of device such as messages pending charging low battery etc. a stylus slot for receiving a stylus such as a stylus usable to input data on touch screen display a digital camera usable to capture images a mirror positioned proximate camera such that a user may view themselves in mirror when taking a picture of themselves using camera a removable battery and a connector which can be used to connect device to either or both an external power supply such as a wall outlet or battery charger or an external device such as a personal computer a global positioning system GPS unit a display unit or some other external device.

Device may also include an expansion slot which may be used to receive a memory card and or a device which communicates data through slot and a SIM card slot located behind battery configured to receive a SIM card or other card that allows the user to access a cellular network.

In various embodiments device may include a housing . Housing may be configured to hold a screen in a fixed relationship above a plurality of user input devices in a substantially parallel or same plane. In the fixed relationship embodiment this fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment.

Housing could be any size shape and dimension. In some embodiments housing has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of 11 mm or less.

In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters. In some of these embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 1000 cubic centimeters and or up to about 600 cubic centimeters.

Device may include an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. Each transceiver of device may include individual antennas or may include a common antenna . The antenna system may include or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

While described with regards to a handheld device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality through wireless access points WAPs in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. A wireless access point may comprise any one or more components of a wireless site used by device to create a wireless network system that connects to a wired infrastructure such as a wireless transceiver cell tower base station router cables servers or other components depending on the system architecture. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system e.g. a cellular network and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants a wireless personal area network PAN system such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit which may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor or modem . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise one processor more than two processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc. Alternatively a single processor or multiple processors may perform the functions of host processor and radio processor such as a single unified processor that handles host and radio functions or other multiprocessor topologies which do not rely on the concept of a host. Alternatively processing circuit may comprise any digital and or analog circuit elements comprising discrete and or solid state components suitable for use with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application e.g. contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application web site favorites or bookmarks notes application etc. word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API a GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise a memory port or expansion slot shown in to support a multimedia and or memory card for example. Processing circuit may use memory port or expansion slot to read and or write to a removable memory card having memory for example to determine whether a memory card is present in port or slot to determine an amount of available memory on the memory card to store subscribed content or other data or files on the memory card etc.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a alphanumeric numeric or QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth. Examples of such objects are shown in as 5 way navigator power end button phone button calendar button messaging button applications button thumb keyboard volume button customizable button and ringer switch .

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a PC. In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

Device may comprise a transceiver coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example transceiver may comprise a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously.

The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas. Radio tower and server are shown as examples of potential objects configured to receive a signal from antenna system .

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory etc. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . Further host processor and radio processor may share a single memory.

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more position determination techniques including for example GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example the transceiver and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one location based service LBS application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate position requests e.g. requests for position fixes and position responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio processor may be configured to invoke a position fix by configuring a position engine and requesting a position fix. For example a position engine interface on radio processor may set configuration parameters that control the position determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation location determination mode e.g. standalone MS assisted MS based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request position assist data without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload PDE address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC etc. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

Referring to electronic systems are shown in three exemplary embodiments. In an electronic system comprises a first circuit and a second circuit . Each of circuits comprise a respective processing circuit a driver and an interface . Processing circuits may comprise any circuit components analog and or digital analog to digital or digital to analog converters etc. configured to perform functions which may include any of the functions described above with reference to or other functions.

In this embodiment driver comprises a current source driver as a power amplifier. Current source driver may comprise any analog and or digital components such as an integrated circuit operational amplifier active and or passive circuit components etc. configured to generate a signal based on data from processing circuit . One exemplary circuit topology is shown in using an Apex Precision Power PA07 power amplifier manufactured by Cirrus Logic Tucson Ariz. though alternative topologies and circuits including topologies and circuits using discrete components are contemplated. Current source drivers may be configured to drive a predetermined current signal to a load regardless of output resistance other signals or other resistances.

Interface may comprise electrical and or mechanical components configured to receive the signal from current source driver and to provide the signal on a bus to interface . Bus may comprise any configuration and in this exemplary embodiment comprises at least two terminals or conductors sharing a common ground terminal or conductor having a certain resistance e.g. which may not be an ultra low resistance . A second signal may be provided on a second terminal of bus either from circuit to circuit or vice versa. Both terminals share a common ground terminal which can cause ground loop problems ground level differences crosstalk voltage or resistance variations in the interface loss of signal integrity noise problems signal leakage etc. The use of current source driver may alleviate one or more of these problems.

Circuits and may comprise a single device be mounted in a single housing or on a single printed circuit board or may be separate devices disposed within separate housings and coupled via bus when in a wired configuration. In one exemplary embodiment bus may comprise an insulated wire coupled to interfaces and and extending at least six inches or at least three inches or some other length from the interface to interface . For example circuit may comprise an earpiece speaker accessory circuit may comprise a mobile computing device and bus may comprise a cable or wired connection or coupling between the accessory and mobile computing device for communicating audio data and or signals in one or both directions. In another example circuit may comprise a digital music player comprising processing circuit and a memory not shown wherein the memory is configured to store a digital music file and processing circuit is configured to control current source driver to generate signals based on audio data in the digital music file.

In various embodiments circuit may comprise an input device and or an output device configured to receive signals from another system or a user and to provide signals to another system or a user respectively. For example input device may comprise a microphone keyboard user input device speech recognition circuit touch screen or other user input device. Further input device may comprise a communication interface a network interface a connector a wire a wireless transceiver etc. Output device may comprise a speaker e.g. earpiece speaker for a telephone speakerphone etc. configured to provide audio tones and or signals a display tactile feedback e.g. vibration or other user output device. Further output device may comprise a communication interface a network interface a connector a wire a wireless transceiver etc. Similarly circuit may also comprise an input device and or output device . Due to the many applications in which the circuits of may be used many different types of input and or output devices are contemplated.

In one exemplary embodiment input device comprises a wireless transceiver configured to receive telephony data over a cellular network from a remote device. Processing circuit comprises a wireless telephony circuit configured to process wireless telephony data to receive the telephony data and to control current source driver to output audio signals based on the telephony data to interface for transmission on first terminal to circuit . Circuit may be configured to receive the signals at interface which may be provided on bus and amplified via processing circuit and or provided directly to output device e.g. an earpiece or headphone speaker . Output device may comprise a load of a resistor e.g. a single resistor without other load components or other loads. The resistor or other load is configured to convert the current signal from current source driver into a voltage signal in a manner that may reduce the problems noted above.

In another embodiment input device may comprise a microphone configured to receive audible signals from a user or a nearby environment. Input device is configured to generate electrical signals based on the audible signals and provide them to processing circuit . Processing circuit is configured to control driver which may comprise a voltage source driver current source driver or other driver circuit to provide the signals to interface on second terminal to interface . The signals may be provided on bus to an amplifier within processing circuit or directly to a load within output device again e.g. a resistor or other load . Output device may be configured to provide to convert the signals to data and to provide them as an output for example over a cellular network to a remote device.

In the embodiments of driver may not necessarily be a current source driver. However in the alternative embodiments of driver may be a current source driver while driver is not a current source driver. Further in the alternative embodiments of both drivers and are current source drivers. Certain advantages described herein can be realized by any of the various alternative embodiments disclosed in . While the exemplary embodiments of have been described with reference to the communication of audio signals and data the current source driver may also advantageously be applied to other signal transmission and or reception applications. For example the teachings herein may be applied to any application in which the number of conductors in a communication interface is constrained. As another example the teachings herein may be applied to wire headsets which have a shared ground connection.

Referring now to mobile computing device is shown with an audio accessory unit according to an exemplary embodiment. Accessory unit may comprise one or more ear buds headphones earphones stereo phones headsets hybrid headsets a stereo headphone and a microphone or other speaker units having one or more speaker units and also may comprise a microphone or other audio sense element. Accessory unit may be external to device and may be an analog only device or a device comprising analog and digital components and or signals. Mobile computing device may comprise any of the features and or functions described above with reference to and device and accessory unit may further comprise circuitry in accordance with any of . In this embodiment device comprises a housing configured to be held in a hand during use a memory configured to store audio data such as memory described with reference to and a processing circuit such as processing circuit described with reference to and or the processing circuits of . The audio data may be an audio file audio data received in real time from a remote source such as during a telephone call or audio data from any other source. Device further comprises a current source driver and an audio interface . In this embodiment audio interface comprises a first terminal a second terminal and a common ground terminal for first and second terminals . Processing circuit is configured to control first current source driver to provide a first audio signal on first terminal based on the audio data. In this embodiment audio data may be provided from device to audio accessory unit and provided as an output from an earpiece speaker housing .

Processing circuit of device may be configured to receive a second audio signal on second terminal from a separate microphone unit over the wired connection or bus . The first and second audio signals provided on bus may be of any type such as analog digital pulse width modulated PWM packet data pulse density modulated PDM pulse code modulated PCM etc. which may be communicated by differential signaling e.g. high speed serial differential RS 422 RS 485 PCI Express USB etc. single ended signaling or other signaling format. In one embodiment the audio signals transmitted across the interface comprise analog signals to provide a lower cost embodiment.

In this embodiment bus comprises two data terminals a common or shared ground terminal a power terminal and an identifier or ID terminal . In one exemplary embodiment bus operates according to or is compatible with a universal serial bus USB standard. In another exemplary embodiment bus operates according to or is compatible with a CEA 936A standard. The CEA 936A standard also known as a USB Carkit Specification is a CEA Consumer Electronics Association standard allowing the use of a mini USB connector for UART Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter and analog audio signals. CEA 936A may allow connection of a mobile phone to analog hands free car kits chargers headsets of all types RS 232 devices and other devices. Reusing a USB connector on a mobile computing device for connection to headsets or other audio devices can be a low cost option for providing such communication. In some embodiments using the USB port for analog or digital audio signals can obviate the need for a dedicated audio port saving cost physical space and failure points.

From the mobile phone side the USB D wire may be used as either the USB D signal the UART receive data signal the left stereo speaker audio channel or the mono speaker audio channel and the USB D 620 wire may be used as either the USB D signal the UART transmit data signal the right stereo speaker audio channel or the mono microphone audio channel. Data provided on ID wire e.g. by putting a different bearing impedance on ID wire sending a data packet etc. may communicate which communication configuration is being used from one device to another. Power wire allows a device such as device to provide the power needed to operate unit .

Accordingly the circuits of may operate in any of a plurality of embodiments or modes such as 1 a headphone microphone or earphone microphone configuration in which earphone data is communicated on one of the D or D wires and microphone data is communicated on the other of D or D wires 2 a stereo headphone or earphone configuration in which left audio is communicated on one of the D or D wires and right audio is communicated on the other of the D or D wires 3 a stereo monotone configuration in which both D and D wires communicate a single monotone audio signal e.g. to left and right speakers on a dual headphone accessory unit 4 a switchable configuration in which device and unit may be configured to switch among any of configurations or above in response to user inputs.

In embodiments 2 or 3 above the second audio signal may be provided by a second current source driver in device . Alternatively a second current source driver may be provided in device and processing circuit may be configured to control the second current source driver to provide the second audio signal to second terminal based on audio data in a memory of device . In embodiment 2 the first and second audio signals provided by device on data terminals and may comprise a stereo audio signal.

In one example of embodiment 4 processing circuit is operable in a first mode to provide a stereo audio signal over first and second terminals and operable in a second mode to receive a second audio signal on second terminal from a separate microphone unit i.e. separate from the housing of device over a wired connection . Device may be configured to receive a user selection of the first or second mode or other modes and to control bus and audio unit to carry out the switch of modes.

In an embodiment in which device comprises a digital audio player circuit processing circuit may be configured in a synchronization mode to synchronize the audio data e.g. one or more digital music files stored in memory with a remote computer e.g. a server on a cellular network a desktop or laptop PC a nearby digital audio player etc. using the audio interface . In a play mode processing circuit may be configured to provide audio signals to separate earphone speaker unit over wired connection . Synchronization may comprise transmitting receiving or exchanging predetermined digital music files or other data files between device and the remote computer which can include uploading new data files to device .

In another exemplary embodiment a microphone unit may comprise housing a microphone disposed within housing an audio interface such as interface or of and current source driver such as or in . The audio interface may comprise first terminal second terminal and common ground terminal for first and second terminals and . The current source driver may be configured to receive an audio signal from the microphone and to generate a first signal based on the audio signal. The first signal may be provided on first terminal to another circuit such as device .

The microphone unit may further comprise an earphone speaker in the same or separate housing such as earpiece speaker housing . In one embodiment such as embodiment 1 above the earphone speaker may be configured to receive an audio signal from the second terminal typically from device or another circuit providing the audio signal and to provide an audio output e.g. to a listener s ear based on the audio signal. In another embodiment a second earphone speaker may be provided which is configured in a first mode to receive the audio signal e.g. for monotone audio or in a second mode to receive stereo audio signals on the first and second terminals. Either the microphone unit or the device in communication with the microphone unit may be configured to switch the system from the first mode to the second mode for example in response to inputs from a user to either device or in response to a request from an application operable on either device.

Referring now to an exemplary system and method for communicating audio between a mobile computing device and a microphone unit is shown. A connector comprises D terminal D terminal and common ground terminal and may operate according to a CEA 936A communication standard. A voltage source driver signal generator Vis configured to transmit an audio signal to a headset load R. An Iload current creates a Verror voltage in the resistance of the shared ground connection GND in connector .

A microphone current source driver Iis configured to transmit an audio signal via the D terminal and the shared GND connection to load Rto create the Vmicrophone signal which is the amplified in the system. Because the microphone signal is created as a current source only the Imicrophone signal current flows through the Rload resistor. As a result Vconsists only of the microphone load signal Iand the Verror voltage is ignored. In this embodiment the use of a current source driver Ifor the microphone signal avoids the effect of the Verror voltage which could otherwise cause crosstalk problems if the microphone source driver were a voltage source or other configuration. Specifically the use of a current source driver Ican avoid an echo situation in telephony applications in which any signal sent to the headset load Ris echoed back to the sender via the error signal Vcreated through the shared GND terminal.

Referring now to in this embodiment D and D terminals of connector may be used to send Left and Right audio signals respectively to load resistors Rand R which may coupled to additional circuitry such as one or more voltage amplifiers. As described above the audio signals may be monotone stereo or other audio signals. From the perspective of the load resistor R the left audio signal develops an error signal V which is a small loss of signal to R and the right audio signal develops an error signal V which is a crosstalk signal because of the resistance of the shared ground GND. From the perspective of the load resistor R the left audio signal develops an error signal V a crosstalk signal and the right audio signal develops an error signal V which is a small loss of signal through the resistance of the shared ground connection GND. However because the left and right audio signals are generated by left and right current source drivers Iand I respectively the resulting signals avoid the small losses and crosstalk signals. The power delivered to load resistor Ris P I R which avoids the small loss of signal Vand the crosstalk associated with V. The power delivered to load resistor Ris P I R which avoids the small loss of signal Vand the crosstalk associated with V.

Reducing crosstalk can provide embodiments in which a crosstalk level of greater than about 80 dB or greater than about 120 dB is achieved which can be suitable for a quality stereo system.

For example in prior systems if Ris 8 Ohms and the connector resistance is 0.08 Ohms crosstalk of approximately 40 dB level could result which is about 40 dB louder than a desired minimum. The embodiment of can help achieve crosstalk levels more suitable for quality audio applications.

In the embodiment of use of a current driver source for the microphone signal can provide particularly advantageous results because of the relatively large amount of current flowing in the headphone load Rrelative to the smaller signal voltage available from the microphone. Further even a small amount of crosstalk into the microphone path can be easily heard as echo by a remote signal source originating the headphone signal e.g. a far end talker on a cell phone land line etc. . This is caused by the signal from the remote signal source being passed into the load R which also creates a Verror signal. If this error signal is amplified conventionally Vis combined with the microphone signal resulting in the far end signal being returned back to the far end resulting in an echo as experienced by the far end.

According to some exemplary embodiments the circuits described herein may implement variants on a CEA 936A standard and still be compatible with the standard. For example in the embodiment of using current source drivers Iand Iwould still result in a device compatible with headsets operating in accordance with a CEA 936A standard. Also a CEA 936A compatible headset would work similarly when driven by the current source driver as it would in other embodiments provided that the external headset load resistance Ris standardized. In other words provided Ris the nominal load impedance specified by the industry in the context of CEA 936A the current source driver can be set to a nominal drive level such that the load will be driven the same amount as it would be with the voltage driver intended by the CEA 936A standard. In this manner this embodiment would be functionally compatible with an external device operating in accordance with the CEA 936A standard. In the embodiment of the microphone current source driver Iwould provide a signal suitable for a CEA 936A compatible host receiving device provided that the resistive load on the host side of the connector was an appropriate value. The resistive load Rcould be an appropriate value if the signal levels are within about 3 dB of those intended by the CEA 936A standard and noise crosstalk are not greater than what would exist had the external device been attached to a host configured according to the existing CEA 936A standard. Load resistance Rcould be configured to provide the appropriate value for a fully harmonized upgrade to CEA 936A.

The embodiments of may be combined to realize advantages of both embodiments. Alternatively the embodiments of or may be implemented individually to realize certain advantages.

With reference to the disclosure and claims use of the phrase based on means based at least in part on and use of the term a an or one means one or more or at least one. Further any of the steps of any of the methods disclosed herein may be combined with any of the other steps and or rearranged with other steps in alternative embodiments. Specifically various embodiments may make use of different combinations of parts or all of the methods disclosed herein.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the Figs. and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

