---

title: System and method for managing virtual world environments based upon existing physical environments
abstract: In general, the present invention provides a system and method for creating, managing and utilizing virtual worlds for enhanced management of an Information Technology (IT) environment. Two dimensional (2D) and three dimensional (3D) virtual world renditions are automatically created to replicate the associated real-life IT environment. Such virtual environments can then be used to familiarize staff with remote locations and to securely provide virtual data center tours to others. The virtual environments are managed through an information monitor and management module that generates a work order sent to the physical location for reconfiguration of the real-life environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08704821&OS=08704821&RS=08704821
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08704821
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080918
---
The present invention provides a system and method for utilizing virtual environments to provide an accurate view of real world facilities and resources. Using the present invention the two dimensional 2D and three dimensional 3D virtual renditions of physical resources are automatically created and managed to replicate real life environments such as computer data centers and other trackable assets.

Information Technology IT systems are often housed in raised floor computer room areas within a data center environment. The servers and networking equipment are often stacked in racks and organized in rows. Many IT environments keep asset management databases recording the location and status of various assets including servers and network devices. They may also have blueprints or floor plans showing the location of racks and equipment within a room. Tracking and documenting the location relocation upgrade or replacement of equipment within a data center are typically done manually both in updating the asset databases and in updating the associated visual representations of the assets in their respective operating environments.

Physical management of servers networking devices and other mission critical equipment within a data center is very challenging. As outsourcing and telecommuting become more popular the staffs which manage these locations increasingly work remotely often even working from another country. Many times such staff members have never visited or seen the data center building or raised floor IT area. Additionally it is common practice for businesses to staff a primary production data center where secondary back up data centers may exist and be unstaffed. In most cases again supporting staff will not have seen or be familiar with the remote locations. A virtual world offers a way to set up an environment that allows staff and optionally others to virtually view and to securely tour the I T environments in question.

U.S. Ser. No. 12 055 466 filed on Mar. 26 2008 describes a system wherein 2D and 3D virtual renditions of physical environments are automatically created to replicate the real life environments and are subsequently updated when physical changes occur within a data center. However management of the real life environment is not possible with this system. The present invention provides a method and system for management of the real life environment and continuous update of the real life environment.

It is noted that this disclosure focuses on I T environments such as computer rooms however many environments may suitable for monitoring and management from within a virtual world using this invention.

In general the present invention discloses methods for creating managing updating and utilizing virtual worlds for enhanced management of an Information Technology IT environment. Two dimensional 2D and three dimensional 3D virtual world renditions are automatically created to replicate the associated real life IT environment. A linkage between each I T device and its 3D representation in a virtual world enables dynamic updating of the virtual world layout and content based on changes to the associated real world data center. These virtual environments are automatically updated and can be managed from remote locations.

This invention comprises a system and methods of automatically creating and managing a virtual world environment to reflect a real world environment using information stored in databases and floor plans.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings are merely schematic representations not intended to portray specific parameters of the invention. The drawings are intended to depict only typical embodiments of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements.

This invention discloses a system and method of utilizing virtual worlds for enhanced physical management of Information Technology I T environments. The replica 2D and 3D virtual world environments are automatically updated to replicate real life I T environments. This invention comprises a system and method of automatically updating a virtual world environment to reflect that of the associated real world environment. The key unique components of this invention include 

A data processing system such as that system shown in suitable for storing and or executing program code of the present invention will include at least one processor processing unit coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory RAM employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage storage system and cache memories cache which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices external devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers I O Interface .

Network adapters network adapter may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system as shown in data processing unit to become coupled to other data processing systems data processing unit or remote printers printer or storage devices storage through intervening private or public networks network . A computer network is composed of multiple computers connected together using a telecommunication system for the purpose of sharing data resources and communication. For more information see http historyoftheinternet.org . Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters. A network card network adapter or NIC network interface card is a piece of computer hardware designed to allow computers to communicate over a computer network. It is both an OSI layer 1 physical layer and layer 2 data link layer device as it provides physical access to a networking medium and provides a low level addressing system through the use of MAC addresses. It allows users to connect to each other either by using cables or wirelessly. 

The primary logic element associated with this invention provides methods for automatic creation and management of 2D and 3D representations of a data center and each I T device within the data center.

The present invention enables configuration and updating of many characteristics of devices including IP address file system size server and storage virtualization Logical Partitioning and load balancing pools.

The IMMM can be implemented as an agent interface to the many existing system management tools and instruments currently available across I T platforms such as IBM Tivoli Netview HP Openview and Nimsoft NimBUS. Additionally communication between disparate system platforms and management tools is enabled by industry standard protocols such as Simple Network Management Protocol as well as numerous other open and proprietary protocols. An API and associated agent s in this invention along with instrument definitions added to the VWG allows for data from each disparate computing platform to be forwarded to the VWG in order to update the associate instrument update virtual object data and or update object rendering where a visual change has occurred LED change indicator light illuminated or extinguished button or level activated . The virtual world graphic presentation provides a single consolidated view of the data center its current configurations and the current status of each rack server and instrument.

The IMMM also receives proposed changes from authorized users. When an authorized user wants to change the location of a real word device the user inputs the change the IMMM and the IMMM generates a work order conforming to the change. This work order is sent to the physical location. When the work order is completed the agent updates the new location of the real world device over the VWG. A confirmation is sent to the authorized user acknowledging completion of the change.

In one embodiment Radio Frequency Identification RFID transmitters are used to track the location of items within the data center and the legacy databases are updated by RFID monitors. For example within a data center computer servers and networking devices may be tagged with RFID transmitters that are monitored by RFID monitors within the data center. This allows the asset tracking systems to be automatically updated via the RFID monitors when physical equipment changes occur. In this embodiment the VWG is also updated using the agents introduced in this invention after the RFID monitors have updated the legacy data sources.

The legacy data sources are updated via an automated tracking method such as RFID and this invention captures that change via the IMMM which communicates the change to the VWG.

Many standards exist in the I T industry such that creating an API to translated standard I T data floor plan data asset data location tracking data to the Virtual World Rendering Module is possible. The Virtual World Gateway receives descriptive resource data floor plan data asset data location tracking data through the API from a legacy source agents translates that data so that it is understood by the VWRM which in turn creates the Virtual World Graphic Representation of the resource. As noted above depicts these logical relationships.

1. A 2D floor plan is built on a grid so that the system automatically knows where to place the equipment in the 3D world. See FIG. Data Center Floor Plan which depicts a floor plan drawn on a grid illustrating racks . 

2. Record coordinates of each item such as rack rack from floor plan. This includes x y placement of corners of items along X axis Y axis or x y coordinate of upper left corner and dimensions.

4. Use coordinates from plan data or table to place equipment in correct location in 3D rendering of the room.

After each room or designated area has been rendered the IMMM automatically updates changes through a two way communication system. The IMMM also allows management of the designated area by authorized users. The IMMM will generate a work order sent to the physical location when a change in the actual room or area is submitted by authorized personnel. When the IMMM receives a change request a work order is generated and sent to the physical location receiving center. When the work is completed the VWGR is updated automatically the modified item automatically updates its position.

In order to update the current rendering of a virtual environment illustrates a system for monitoring Systems z p i x of I T Equipment utilizing System z Monitor System p Monitor System i Monitor and System x Monitor . Like System of Agents pass this data to VWG for processing by Virtual Instrument Update Module and Virtual World Rendering Module and Instrument Monitoring and Management Module to update the Virtual World Graphic Representation .

It should be understood that the present invention is typically computer implemented via hardware and or software. As such and client systems and or servers will include computerized components as known in the art. Such components typically include among others a processing unit a memory a bus input output I O interfaces external devices etc. It should also be understood that although a specific embodiment involving 2D and 3D virtual renditions of physical resources that are automatically created to replicate real life environments such as computer data centers and other trackable assets has been depicted and described the present invention could be implemented in conjunction with any type of real life environments having trackable assets.

While shown and described herein as a system and method for utilizing virtual environments to provide an accurate view of real world facilities and resources it is understood that the invention further provides various alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the invention provides a computer readable useable medium that includes computer program code to enable a computer infrastructure. To this extent the computer readable useable medium includes program code that implements each of the various process steps of the invention. It is understood that the terms computer readable medium or computer useable medium comprises one or more of any type of physical embodiment of the program code. In particular the computer readable useable medium can comprise program code embodied on one or more portable storage articles of manufacture e.g. a compact disc a magnetic disk a tape etc. on one or more data storage portions of a computing device such as memory and or storage system e.g. a fixed disk a read only memory a random access memory a cache memory etc. and or as a data signal e.g. a propagated signal traveling over a network e.g. during a wired wireless electronic distribution of the program code .

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method for utilizing virtual environments to provide an accurate view of real world facilities and resources. In this case a computerized infrastructure can be provided and one or more systems for performing the process steps of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computerized infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computerized infrastructure to perform the process steps of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic I O system driver for a particular computing and or I O device and the like.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

