---

title: Audio data distribution system and method for generating a photo slideshow which automatically selects music
abstract: An embodiment of the present invention relates to a method, system, or program that automatically associates background music with an image slideshow. The embodiment can receive a selected image collection, extract metadata from the image collection, and associate audio files with the image collection based on the metadata. The embodiment will then prompt concurrent playing of the audio file while the image collection is displayed. The metadata identifies a theme for the image collection which can form the basis for associating the audio file with the image collection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08261178&OS=08261178&RS=08261178
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08261178
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080912
---
This invention relates generally to selecting background music for a variety of images and more particularly to a system and method for automatically selecting music based on information associated with a series of images selected by a user at a client computer.

Conventional music playing devices automatically associate audio files on a user s hard drive or portable device with images relating to the audio files. For example various audio devices and software will associate an audio file with its artist or album. This software employs information found in the metadata and file name of the music file in combination with information on a local or remote database to identify images related to the artist or album associated with the music file. Once identified the software will commonly display images associated with the audio file while playing the audio file. These images may be retrieved from a local drive or a remote internet location.

To select an image associated with an audio file the audio play software requires the audio file to contain metadata directly associating the image with the audio file. This allows the audio playing software to uniquely select an image using the audio file metadata.

Alternatively image presentation software and image album software generally allows a user to combine multiple images into a complete slideshow or album. The software may also allow the user to combine viewing of the images with audio content including short or long duration audio content to provide themes or information relating to the visual content of the presentation or album.

However the process of including music with an image presentation or album is a manual process beyond the capabilities of the conventional user. For example in order to produce an audio visual presentation the software generally requires the user to associate images with audio. Creating this association involves manually assembling the image content and audio content for the presentation and using the software to arrange the image content and identify instances in time where the audio content should begin and end.

The present invention provides a system that enables a user to listen to background music during a photo slideshow without manually specifying individual audio files. The system automatically selects music based on metadata such as date filename etc. to identify audio content related to photo slideshow images. The audio file may be located on a local drive or may be located somewhere on a network. Furthermore the system may employ network services to identify and obtain audio content relating to the image or collection of images.

A first example embodiment of the present invention may be directed to a method for automatically associating background music with an image slideshow. The method may including receiving a selected image collection extracting metadata from the image collection associating an audio file with the image collection based upon the metadata and prompting a concurrent playing of the audio file while the image collection is displayed. The metadata may identify a theme for the image collection which can form the basis for associating the audio file with the image collection.

The metadata may include for example file names dates folder names and the location information e.g. GPS information or a location name or any information that can stored in or determined from the images in the image collection.

A second embodiment of the present invention may include system that automatically associates background music with an image slideshow. The system may include an interface that receives an image collection an extraction module that extracts metadata from the image collection an audio file information database and an audio player that concurrently plays the audio file while the image collection is displayed. The audio file database may include an association module that identifies themes for images in the image collection based on the extracted metadata and uses the theme as the basis for associating audio files with the image collection.

A third embodiment of the present invention may include a computer program for automatically associating background music with an image slideshow stored on at least one computer readable medium. The computer program may cause a computer to receive a selected image collection extract metadata from the image collection associate an audio file with the image collection based upon the metadata and prompt concurrent playing of the audio file while the image collection is displayed

An alternative embodiment may include a method system or program that may associate the image collection with a playlist including songs having a theme similar to the theme or themes identified in the metadata.

Yet another alternative embodiment may include a method system or program that may associate the image collection with a radio station having at least one theme similar to the theme or themes identified in the metadata.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

Audio Data Distribution System includes a Client which communicates with a Selection Server and Music Server over a network .

Selection Server may selectively communicate with a Selection Database possibly through network but more likely though a local area network LAN or the like. Selection Server may include or may be in communication with Selection Database containing data for associating audio data such as files streams etc. with metadata from an image collection. The image collection includes images selected or grouped as a result of activity at Client .

Selection Server and Selection Database may be included within a single computing device or may each include clusters of computing devices for purposes of redundancy processing efficiency etc. In any event Selection Database may include data associating image meta data with audio data. In one embodiment the audio data is in the form of audio files but one of ordinary skill will easily recognize that the audio data may be implemented with audio streams or other transmittable formats.

Music Server may selectively communicate with a Music Database possibly through network but more likely though a local area network LAN or the like. Music Server and Music Database may alternatively be included within a single computing device or may each include clusters of computing devices for purposes of redundancy processing efficiency etc. In any event Music Database may be searched to identify and retrieve audio files.

A Client provides a mechanism by which a user or a software application can communicate through network e.g. to interact with Selection Server and Music Server . For example Client may be any one of a number of computing devices that includes one or more software applications. For example Client may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a mini computer a cell phone personal digital assistant or other similar device. Also while only one Client is shown in many different Clients may submit queries and receive responses using system .

Network may include any medium or media for transmitting data between Client Selection Server and Music Server such as the Internet a local area network wide area network cellular network etc.

Software on Client submits queries to Selection Server and Music Server via network . For example Client may communicate with the Selection Server to identify audio files based on image files selected by the user of Client . Selection Server and Music Server may accept queries submitted by Client and may in turn query databases and . Selection Server and Music Server may be any device or combination of devices configured to receive information from one or more Clients . Selection Server and Music Server may include one or more web servers or online services which may facilitate access to Client e.g. Microsoft Internet Information Service Apache or the like. Alternatively Selection Server and Music Server may include proprietary internet services. Selection Server and Music Server may interface with Client using Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other protocol for transmitting query parameters for databases and . Further Client may display various kinds of user interfaces for selecting and identifying image or image collections.

Selection Database and Music Database may include one or more relational databases. Alternatively or additionally databases and may include one or more object oriented or hierarchical databases or other mechanisms for storing and accessing data including arrays pointers flat files etc. As mentioned above Selection Database may be a separate computing device from Selection Server or may be a software application executing on Selection Server . Similarly Music Database may be a separate computing device than Music Server or may be a software application executing on Music Server .

Computing devices such as those discussed herein generally each include instructions executable by one or more processors. Computer executable instructions may be compiled or interpreted from computer programs created using a variety of programming languages and or technologies known to those skilled in the art including without limitation and either alone or in combination Java C C Visual Basic Java Script Perl etc. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions e.g. from a memory a computer readable medium etc. and executes these instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions and other data may be stored and transmitted using a variety of known computer readable media.

A computer readable medium includes any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions which may be read by a computer. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Databases or data stores described herein may include various kinds of mechanisms for storing accessing and retrieving various kinds of data including a hierarchical database a set of files in a file system an application database in a proprietary format a relational database management system RDBMS etc. Each such database or data store is generally included within a computing device employing a computer operating system such as one of those mentioned above and are accessed via a network in any one or more of a variety of manners as is known. A file system may be accessible from a computer operating system and may include files stored in various formats. An RDBMS generally employs the known Structured Query Language SQL in addition to a language for creating storing editing and executing stored procedures such as the PL SQL language mentioned above.

Display device may be a panel display such as an LCD HDTV etc. Computing device may be any computing and storage device capable of running software for storing identify and selecting images to create an image collection. Audio playing device may be stereo speakers or the like which can play audio from the Computing device . Finally Control device may be a remote or wired peripheral capable of controlling the computing device sufficiently for a user to identify and select images for the image collection.

In step a user selects an image collection from a pre existing set of images which will make up the photo slideshow. The image collection may include one or more images. The image collection may include images from a common location or multiple independent locations. For example the images may be stored locally at Client may share a common folder file drive etc. or be stored remotely at a location accessible by Client . The user of Client may employ image selection software which uses a graphical user interface GUI or command line to select the images comprising the image collection. The GUI may be a specially written application for creating the photo slideshow or may be a plug in to another application thereby augmenting a pre existing application to perform image and audio selection.

In step after the image collection is created process may extract metadata from the image collection. The metadata may include filenames folder names date information image location e.g. GPS data or any pre existing information that may serve to identify the theme and content of the images. Also the software at Client may prompt the user to enter metadata e.g. in the form of keywords relating to the image collection. Alternatively the images may be analyzed by image recognition software in an attempt to extract further metadata.

Next in step the metadata extracted from the image collection is sent to the selections server in the form of an audio file information query.

At step Client receives a response from Selection Server in response to the audio file information query. The Selection Server response may include for example a URL or unique ID associated with an audio file relating to the subject matter of the image collection.

At step Client connects to the Music Server and retrieves the audio file located at the URL designated by the Selection Server in step . In one embodiment this may involve simply linking to and downloading the audio file from the Music Server which may be a directory server. Alternatively step may be a query and response process including querying the Music Server for the audio file and then receiving the content of the audio file in response to the audio file query.

Once Client obtains the audio file Client performs step which includes playing the audio file during the slide show.

In step if Client determines the audio file has finished playing the process returns to step and begins the process of retrieving another audio file by querying the selections server for another audio file otherwise process proceeds to step .

In step Client determines if the user chose to skip the current audio file. If the user chose to skip the current audio file the process returns to step and begins the process of retrieving another audio file by querying the selections server for another audio file otherwise process proceeds to step .

In step Client determines if the photo slideshow application was closed i.e. Client software is terminated in which case the process ends otherwise the process returns to monitor for conditions relating to steps and .

In an alternative embodiment related to step may return a playlist containing a series of URLs to a plurality of audio files related to the subject matter of the image collection. In this case Client may avoid multiple queries to the Selection Server at the conclusion of playing each audio file. In this alternative embodiment whenever an audio file finishes playing or the user chooses to skip the playing audio file Client may select another audio file from the playlist and retrieve it from the Music Server .

Process A begins at step when the Selection Server receives a query from Client containing the metadata extracted from the image collection. As set forth above the metadata may include filenames folder names date information image location e.g. GPS data any pre existing information that may be stored in metadata associated with the images data resulting from image analysis and keywords provided to Client by the user.

At step the Selection Server extracts keywords from within the metadata queries the Selection Database for theme groups associated with the extracted keywords and identifies the theme group most descriptive of the image collection.

A theme group is a series of keywords having a related theme between them. A related theme may include for example a similar location subject matter depicted event etc. Furthermore the theme group may include a GPS range to identify related locations. The purpose of identifying a theme group is twofold.

First the theme group increases the number of keywords which can be used to identify audio files related to the subject matter of the keywords. For example metadata indicating an image collection of death valley may result in a theme group associated with the theme desert which may include words such as desert sand mirage sun dunes west Death Valley Mohave etc. As such the theme groups serve to increase the universe of potential audio files which may be returned for a given query.

Secondly a given keyword may be associated with multiple theme groups. For example the keyword Nevada may be associated with one theme group having a gambling theme and another theme group having a desert theme. However the image collection as a whole may favor one theme over another. That is if two or more keywords extracted from the metadata are associated with the same theme group then that theme group can be weighed more heavily when selecting audio files related to the image collection. This helps better identify the common theme for the image collection.

At step the Selection Server queries the Selection Database for audio files that relate to the dominant theme groups identified in step . The Selection Database responds to the query by returning a response identifying one or more audio files relating to the dominant theme groups. Each piece of audio file information returned in this query may identify a URL or unique identifier necessary for Client to retrieve the audio file.

At step the Selection Server selects audio information from the response which identifies one audio file. Step may randomly select the audio information or may select the audio file information using a deterministic approach.

In step Selection Server determines if Selection Server has already created a playlist associated with the image collection and the requesting Client . If such a playlist exists the process moves to step otherwise the process moves to step .

At step the Selection Server identifies the last audio file information transmitted to Client and sends Client the next audio file information on the playlist.

Step differs from step in that at step one or more audio files identified in step are collected and organized into a playlist which is associated with the image collection and Client . This playlist is stored for a predetermined period of time at the server and used in steps and .

Alternate embodiments of process may for example provide the entire playlist created in step to Client thereby removing the need for further communication between Client and Selection Server with respect to a given image collection.

In yet another alternate embodiment the Selection Server may co exist with Music Server and at steps or a combined selection and Music Server may directly transmit or stream the audio of one or more audio files to Client .

A third alternative embodiment of the present invention may also include a system and method that selects a radio station based on a slideshow. That is instead of associating a given slideshow with a song or playlist the system or process may associate the slideshow with a radio station from a list of radio stations. In such an embodiment the selection server would be modified to return radio station information such as a URL or frequency associated with a radio station. In such an embodiment once the selection server transmits radio station information to the client the client may communicate with the radio station identified by the Selection Server and begin downloading and playing music from the radio station.

Since radio stations can be associated with themes similarly to individual songs radio station selection mechanism employed by a radios station selection system could be similar to that employed by the processes discussed with respect to except that step would transmit radio station identification information instead of song information.

In the image file is separate from the metadata file . However there is a one to one correlation between image files and metadata files .

While embodiments herein are discussed primarily with respect to one system embodiment and three process embodiments the present invention is not limited thereto. For example different various types of storage techniques database systems and query and response paradigms may be employed in arranging the components of the system method

Although embodiments of the invention are discussed primarily with respect to apparatuses and methods for identifying audio files using image metadata other uses and features are possible. Various embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. For example different server configuration audio file identification methods and database architectures can change the implementation of the above discussed methods.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatus systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments of the present invention.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide a system and method for displaying a photo slideshow which automatically selects music. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

