---

title: Instant hardware erase for content reset and pseudo-random number generation
abstract: Systems and methods that facilitate securing data associated with a memory from security breaches are presented. A memory component includes nonvolatile memory, and a secure memory component (e.g., volatile memory) used to store information such as secret information related to secret processes or functions (e.g., cryptographic functions). A security component detects security-related events, such as security breaches or completion of security processes or functions, associated with the memory component and in response to a security-related event, the security component can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate efficiently erasing or resetting desired storage locations in the secure memory component in parallel and in a single clock cycle to facilitate data security. A random number generator component can facilitate generating random numbers after a reset based on a change in scrambler keys used by a scrambler component to descramble data read from the reset storage locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08370644&OS=08370644&RS=08370644
owner: Spansion LLC
number: 08370644
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080530
---
A wide variety of memory devices can be used to maintain and store data and instructions for various computers and similar systems. For instance flash memory is a type of electronic memory media that can be rewritten and retain content without consumption of power. Unlike dynamic random access memory DRAM devices and static random memory SRAM devices in which a single byte can be erased flash memory devices are typically erased in fixed multi bit blocks or sectors. Flash memory technology can include NOR flash and or NAND flash for example. NOR flash evolved from electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM chip technology in which unlike flash a single byte can be erased and NAND flash evolved from DRAM technology. Flash memory devices can be less expensive and denser as compared to many other memory devices meaning that flash memory devices can store more data per unit area.

Flash memory has become popular at least in part because it combines the advantages of the high density and low cost of EPROM with the electrical erasability of EEPROM. Flash memory is non volatile it can be rewritten and can hold its content without power. It can be used in many portable electronic products such as cellular phones computers voice recorders thumbnail drives and the like as well as in many larger electronic systems such as automobiles airplanes industrial control systems etc. The fact that flash memory can be rewritten as well as its retention of data without a power source small size and light weight have all contributed to make flash memory devices a useful and popular means for transporting and maintaining data.

Many electronic devices and systems employ cryptographic and or other processes to facilitate securing data such as sensitive and or personal information of a user that is associated with the electronic device. Typically such electronic devices which can use non volatile memory e.g. flash memory can also employ other memory such as volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM static RAM etc. which can be utilized to store key information e.g. secret key and or results e.g. intermediate results associated with cryptographic computations related to encrypting and or decrypting data associated with the electronic device. Hackers or other unauthorized entities may attempt to access the volatile memory in order to learn the key information and or results stored therein and or glean other information related thereto in order to discover the data e.g. sensitive and or person information of the user keys and or processes e.g. cryptographic processes used to secure the data. It is desirable to efficiently and securely manage data associated with an electronic device to minimize the risk of unauthorized and undesired access to or disclosure of such information.

Cryptographic and other processes often can employ random numbers e.g. true random numbers pseudo random numbers to facilitate securing data associated with a memory and or electronic device. A random number generator can be used to generate random numbers. Conventionally random number generators can employ cryptographic computations and or a physical process to generate random numbers. Such conventional techniques for generating random numbers can be inefficient for example with regard to the time necessary to generate the random numbers the resources used to generate the random numbers and or power used to generate the random numbers. It is desirable to efficiently generate random numbers to facilitate securing data while also reducing or minimizing time resources and power expended to generate the random numbers.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation relates to systems methods and or mechanisms that can facilitate securing data associated with a memory component e.g. memory device from unauthorized attempts to access or discover data associated with the memory component. In accordance with an aspect a memory component can include a security component that can facilitate instantly erasing or resetting a secure memory component or a desired portion thereof within the memory component in a single clock cycle to facilitate securing data stored therein from unauthorized access or disclosure. The secure memory component can be utilized to store sensitive information such as secret keys results from cryptographic computations and or other information that can be utilized to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component. In one aspect the security component can monitor activity associated with the memory component such as events e.g. tamper events and or security related attributes e.g. temperature of memory component voltage level s associated with the memory component etc. associated with the memory component to determine whether there is an attempt to tamper with or breach the security of the memory component. The security component can evaluate monitored event and or security related attribute information and can apply predetermined reset criteria to determine whether a security breach has occurred based in part on the predetermined reset criteria. If it is determined that a security breach has occurred the security component can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component or can write to a dedicated register associated with the secure memory component to erase or reset to a predefined value content stored in each storage location e.g. memory cell or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component at the same time e.g. in parallel and in a single clock cycle to facilitate securing the memory component and data associated therewith.

For example a sensor component in the security component can detect a breach based in part on predetermined reset criteria and can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate performing a reset or erase of desired storage locations therein in a single clock cycle. As another example the sensor component can provide sensed information e.g. temperature information voltage information etc. associated with the memory component to a memory reset component in the security component and the memory reset component can determine whether a security breach has occurred based in part on predetermined reset criteria and if the memory reset component determines that a security breach occurred the memory reset component can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate performing a reset or erase of desired storage locations therein in a single clock cycle.

In accordance with another aspect at a desired time the security component can facilitate erasing or resetting all or a subset of storage locations in the secure memory component in a single clock cycle to facilitate securing the memory component and data associated therewith. For instance to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component secure processes secure functions and or secure computations e.g. cryptographic processes and computations can be performed and information related to such secure processes functions and or secure computations e.g. intermediate computation results can be stored in storage locations in the secure memory component. At a desired time such as when the secure processes functions and or secure computations are completed the security component can receive information that the secure processes secure functions and or secure computations are finished and can transmit a reset signal or can write to a dedicated register associated with the secure memory component to reset to a predefined value or erase content stored in each storage location e.g. memory cell or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component such that the reset or erase is performed at the same time and in a single clock cycle to facilitate securing the memory component and data associated therewith.

In accordance with one embodiment the security component can employ a random number generator component that can be utilized to efficiently generate random numbers e.g. pseudo random numbers that can be utilized to facilitate securing data associated with the memory e.g. flash memory . In accordance with an aspect the secure memory component can employ a scrambler component that can utilize scrambler keys to facilitate scrambling data written to storage locations in the secure memory component and descrambling data read from the storage locations. In one aspect when a reset is performed to reset or erase all or a portion of the storage locations in the secure memory component the scrambler key can be changed as desired and when the scrambler key is changed a new set of random numbers e.g. one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated by reading the predefined data value e.g. 0 of the reset storage locations and descrambling the read data values using the new scrambler key. For example a reset of a subset of storage locations in the secure memory component can be performed. When the scrambler key is changed e.g. to different scrambler key the data value e.g. predefined data value of a storage location after a reset is performed stored in the reset subset of storage locations can be read from those storage locations and can be descrambled using the new scrambler key which can facilitate generating one or more pseudo random numbers based in part on the new scrambler key. A random number generator component can receive descrambled sets of data e.g. as descrambled with the new scrambler key respectively associated with each storage location of the subset and can generate one or more pseudo random numbers using the received descrambled sets of data e.g. the descrambled sets of data can be utilized as pseudo random numbers or can be further processed to generate pseudo random numbers . If the scrambler component depends on the scrambler key and the input value one pseudo random number can be generated each time the scrambler key is changed. If the scrambler component depends on the respective memory addresses of the respective storage locations in the secure memory component and the scrambler key and input values a different pseudo random number can be generated with regard to each storage location which can result in a specified number of pseudo random numbers being generated based in part on the number of storage locations from which the data is read and descrambled each time the scrambler key is changed. As a result one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated quickly and efficiently.

In still another aspect methods that can instantly erase data associated with a secure memory component to facilitate securing data are presented. In yet another aspect a method that can facilitate generating pseudo random numbers in an efficient manner to facilitate data security is presented.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

Many electronic devices such as cellular phones computers and personal digital assistants PDA utilize memory e.g. flash memory to store information. Information such as sensitive and or personal information of users is often stored in the memory of such devices and it is desirable to protect such information from attack or discovery by unauthorized entities. Secure processes such as data encryption and decryption can be performed to facilitate securing data associated with the memory where secure processes and or secure computations associated therewith can be performed. Information related to these secure processes secure functions and or secure computations can be stored in a secure memory when such processes functions and or computations are performed and can also remain in the secure memory thereafter. It is desirable to protect information contained in the secure memory from attack or unauthorized disclosure to facilitate securing the memory associated therewith and data e.g. sensitive or personal information associated with the memory from attack or unauthorized disclosure.

Systems methods and or devices that can facilitate erasing or resetting a secure memory component e.g. volatile memory or desired portion thereof associated with a memory component are presented. A memory component can include a security component that can facilitate efficiently erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a desired subset of storage locations in a secure memory component in a single clock cycle based in part on predetermined reset criteria to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component. For example the security component can employ a sensor s that can detect a security breach and in response to the security breach can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate automatically erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a desired subset of storage locations in the secure memory component to remove content e.g. secure content such as content related to secure processes secure functions and or secure computations to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component. As another example at a desired time e.g. after cryptographic computations have been completed the security component can transmit a reset signal to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a desired subset of storage locations in the secure memory component to remove content such as secure content from the secure memory component to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component.

The subject innovation also can facilitate efficiently generating pseudo random numbers. In one aspect a reset or an erase of all or a portion of storage locations in the secure memory component can be performed. The secure memory component can employ a scrambler component e.g. scrambling mechanism that can utilize scrambler keys to scramble and descramble data. When the reset or erase is performed as desired a scrambler key can be changed to a new scrambler key. The sets of data can be read from the respective storage locations and descrambled using the new scrambler key. The descrambled sets of data can be provided to a random number generator component which can utilize the descrambled sets of data as one or more pseudo random numbers or can further process the descrambled sets of data to generate one or more pseudo random numbers. New pseudo random numbers can be generated each time a scrambler key is changed after a reset or an erase is performed in the secure memory component. The number of pseudo random numbers generated can be based in part on the input value scrambler key and or respective memory address of the storage location where the input value is stored.

In accordance with an aspect the memory component can also include a secure memory component that can be associated with the memory array and can be utilized to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . The secure memory component can comprise volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM static RAM SRAM that can include a plurality of storage locations e.g. memory cells in which data can be stored e.g. data can be written to storage locations and from which data can be retrieved e.g. read . The secure memory component can be structured to have a desired number of blocks that can each contain a subset of storage locations. The secure memory component can be utilized to store sensitive and or secret information such as for example keys e.g. secret keys algorithms related to data security e.g. cryptographic algorithm s secure computation results e.g. cryptographic computation results and or other information that can be utilized to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . For example in accordance with a cryptographic protocol cryptographic computations can be performed on data being read from the memory array to facilitate decrypting the data. The cryptographic key can be stored e.g. temporarily stored in the secure memory component where the cryptographic key can be used to facilitate decrypting the read data. Also cryptographic computations results e.g. intermediate cryptographic computation results associated with decryption of the read data can be stored in the secure memory component and such results can be retrieved from the secure memory component so that other cryptographic computations or processes can be performed using the results to facilitate decrypting data read from the memory array .

The volatile memory can include but is not limited to RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Conventionally when a secure memory is employed in a memory device to be utilized in relation to secure processes e.g. cryptographic processes authentication processes etc. and secure functions and secure computations associated therewith a central processing unit CPU typically erases the secure memory one word at a time or one byte at a time for each clock cycle and as a result it can take a relatively large number of clock cycles to erase the secure memory. If a hacker or other unauthorized entity breaches the security of the memory and or secure memory before the secure memory is erased by the CPU the unauthorized entity can have an opportunity to gain unauthorized access to the memory and data e.g. sensitive information of the user associated therewith and or sensitive and or secret information related to the secure processes which can enable the unauthorized entity to gain unauthorized access to the memory and data associated therewith.

Another conventional technique to erasing a secure memory is to power down and power up the secure memory which can erase content stored in the secure memory e.g. volatile memory due to the power loss. However powering down and powering up a secure memory or electronic device associated therewith can be very time consuming and inconvenient. It is desirable to efficiently and quickly erase or reset a secure memory to minimize the risk of attack on and disclosure of data associated with the memory and secure memory while also performing the erase or reset in a time efficient manner.

In accordance with an aspect the secure memory component can be associated e.g. electrically connected with a security component that can be utilized to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . The security component can be utilized to facilitate efficiently erasing e.g. parallel erasing or resetting e.g. parallel resetting to a predefined value all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component in a single clock cycle as desired based in part on predetermined reset criteria. In one aspect the security component can facilitate erasing or resetting desired storage locations in the secure memory component in response to a detected security breach associated with the memory component . The security component can sense and or detect a security breach or tamper event associated with the memory component based in part on the predetermined reset criteria.

The predetermined reset criteria can relate to for example type of memory expected value or range of values of security related attributes e.g. expected value of range of values for temperature level associated with the memory component expected value of range of values for voltage level associated with the memory component etc. type of security breach e.g. attempt to break open or gain unauthorized access to the memory component such as by breaking open the casing of the memory component or an electronic device in which the memory component resides breach related to a variance in a resistance level such as a short circuit associated with a shield such as a metal shield in the memory component breach related to failed authentication attempts to access the memory component breach related to temperature level associated with memory component such as a temperature level for a particular component in memory component being outside of an expected range of temperature levels breach related to a voltage level associated with memory component such as voltage level for a particular component in memory component being outside of an expected range of voltage levels breach related to an attack using radio frequency RF energy to introduce a fault in a cryptographic component e.g. cryptographic component as depicted in and described herein in the memory component breach related to an attack that introduces a voltage glitch which can be a voltage variance over a very short period of time to produce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack using power transients to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack using clock transients to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack that bombards the cryptographic component with heavy ions to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack using pressure variations to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack using ultraviolet UV light to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack using a laser to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component breach related to an attack using white light to introduce a fault in the cryptographic component etc. level of severity of the security breach e.g. a response to a low level security breach can be to erase or reset a particular subset of storage locations in the secure memory component a response to a high level security breach can be to erase or reset all storage locations in the secure memory component performance or completion of secure processes secure functions and or secure computations etc.

For example the security component can monitor activity associated with the memory component and can monitor sense and or measure the temperature of the memory component or portions e.g. components thereof voltage level s associated with the memory component and or other security related attributes e.g. integrity of the casing of the memory component or electronic device associated therewith authentication associated with the memory component etc. to detect whether the temperature level voltage level and or other parameters associated with a security related attribute s are being manipulated or compromised in order to gain unauthorized access to data stored in the memory component and or learn information in an attempt to access the memory component and discover data stored therein. The security component can facilitate determining whether an erase or a reset of all or a portion of the secure memory component is to be performed in response to the detected security breach or tamper event.

If the security component determines that an erase or a reset of all or a portion of the secure memory component is to be performed in response to the detected security breach or tamper event the security component can transmit a reset signal or can write to a dedicated register not shown to indicate to the secure memory component that all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component are to be erased or reset. For instance the secure memory component can receive the reset signal and the reset signal can be provided to a reset pin s associated e.g. electrically connected with all or a select subset of storage locations at the same time or substantially the same time e.g. in parallel so that these storage locations can be erased or reset during a single clock cycle e.g. the next clock cycle . Efficiently e.g. instantaneously erasing or resetting these storage locations in a single clock cycle can facilitate securing the memory component including the secure memory component from unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of data.

In another aspect the security component can facilitate instantaneously erasing or resetting to a predefined value desired storage locations in the secure memory component after cryptographic computations related to an operation e.g. read write associated with the memory component are completed in accordance with predetermined reset criteria. The security component can monitor execution of operations and secure processes e.g. cryptographic processes authentication processes etc. including secure functions and secure computations associated therewith in the memory component and can receive information indicating that secure processes secure functions and or secure computations associated with the memory component are completed. Secret information such as secure computation results key information e.g. secret key and or other information associated with the secure processes functions and or computations can be stored in storage locations in the secure memory component . It can be desirable to erase or reset the storage locations after the secure processes functions and or computations are completed as information stored in these storage locations is no longer needed by the memory component and there is a risk of unauthorized access or disclosure of this secret information which can be utilized by an unauthorized entity to learn or discover data e.g. sensitive and or personal information associated with the memory component and associated user.

To erase or reset these storage locations after the secure process es secure function s and or secure computation s are completed the security component can transmit a reset signal or can write to a dedicated register not shown to indicate to the secure memory component that these storage locations e.g. all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component are to be erased or reset. The secure memory component can receive the reset signal and the reset signal can be provided to a reset pin s associated e.g. electrically connected with these storage locations at the same time or substantially the same time e.g. in parallel so that these storage locations can be erased or reset during a single clock cycle e.g. the next clock cycle to facilitate securing the memory component and data associated therewith.

In accordance with one embodiment the security component can generate random numbers such as pseudo random numbers which can be utilized for example to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . In one aspect the secure memory component can utilize scrambler keys to facilitate scrambling data written to storage locations and descrambling data read from storage locations in the secure memory component . After a reset is performed on all or a subset of storage locations in the secure memory component the scrambler key can be changed. The data value of one or more of the reset storage locations can be read and descrambled by the secure memory component using the new scrambler key which can produce an output that can have an unknown or virtually unknown data value s . The security component can utilize the descrambled data as a pseudo random number s or can further process the descrambled data to generate a pseudo random number s .

For example the security component can facilitate performing a reset of a subset of storage locations in the secure memory component where each of the subset of storage locations can be reset or erased to a predefined value e.g. 0 . The scrambler key can be changed to a new scrambler key and when data e.g. having a predefined data value such as 0 stored in the respective storage locations of the subset is descrambled and read from those storage locations using the new scrambler key one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated based in part on the read and descrambled data as descrambled using the new scrambler key e.g. as a function of the new descrambler key . The descrambled data can be a pseudo random number s and or used to create a pseudo random number s e.g. further processed to generate pseudo random numbers since the read data will be descrambled to a different physical value from its original value e.g. 0 and the descrambled data value with be unknown or virtually unknown.

If the descrambling is based on the scrambler key and the input value one pseudo random number can be generated each time the scrambler key is changed. If the descrambling is based on the respective memory addresses of the respective storage locations of the subset in the secure memory component and the scrambler key and input values a different pseudo random number can be generated with regard to each of those storage locations which can result in a specified number of pseudo random numbers being generated based in part on the number of storage locations from which the data is read and descrambled each time the scrambler key is changed after a reset is performed. As a result one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated quickly and efficiently.

In accordance with another aspect as desired one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated by scrambling data written to storage locations in the secure memory component using a first scrambler key changing the scrambler key and reading the data from those storage locations and descrambling the read data using the new scrambler key. For instance the secure memory component can employ a first scrambler key to scramble data e.g. sets of data that each can have a predefined data value such as 0 that can be written simultaneously to a subset of storage locations e.g. several storage locations in the secure memory component . The scrambler key can be changed to a disparate scrambler key as desired and the secure memory component can read and descramble the sets of data e.g. which were scrambled using the first scrambler key using the new scrambler key which can result in the sets of data having unknown or virtually unknown values since the new scrambler key will descramble the sets of data to different values e.g. value that is not the predetermined value from the data that was originally written to the storage locations.

Conventionally to generate random numbers techniques employed include combining ring oscillators and or using a random seed to feed a cryptographic hash function block cipher or linear feedback register. However the conventional techniques for generating random number can be inefficient with regard to time and or resources utilized to generate the random numbers. The subject innovation can efficiently generate random numbers by changing to a new scrambler key and reading sets of data from specified storage locations in the secure memory component and descrambling the sets of data e.g. which can be data having a predefined value after a reset using the new scrambler key where the descrambled sets of data can be pseudo random numbers or as desired can be further processed to generate pseudo random numbers.

Referring to depicted is a system that can facilitate efficiently erasing or resetting a secure memory component to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. System can include a memory component which can include a memory array e.g. non volatile memory array that can store data in respective memory locations within the memory array . The memory component can further include a secure memory component that can be utilized to store sensitive or secret information such as information related to secure processes e.g. cryptographic process authentication process etc. secure functions e.g. data encryption data decryption authentication of a user grant or denial of memory access rights etc. and or secure computations e.g. cryptographic computations . The memory component also can include a security component that can facilitate instantaneously erasing or resetting to a predefined value storage locations in the secure memory component in a single clock cycle based in part on predetermined reset criteria and or generating pseudo random numbers. The memory component memory array secure memory component and security component can each be the same or similar as and or can include the same or similar functionality as respective components such as more fully described herein for example with regard to system .

In one aspect the secure memory component can comprise a secure memory array that can include a plurality of blocks wherein each block there can be a subset of storage locations that can be utilized to store data such as sensitive or secret information e.g. cryptographic computations results cryptographic keys scrambler keys cryptographic algorithms etc. . The secure memory array can be structured in a typical array form where the storage locations are formed in an array or the storage locations can be formed in the secure memory array in virtually any desired manner that can facilitate storing data.

In another aspect the secure memory component can comprise a reset component that can be utilized to facilitate instantaneously erasing or resetting to a predefined data value e.g. 0 FFFF . . . all or a desired subset of storage locations e.g. storage locations in a block s in the secure memory array in the secure memory array in a single clock cycle. For instance the reset component can comprise one or more reset pins not shown that can be electrically connected to each of the storage locations. The reset component can receive a reset signal from the security component that indicates all or a select portion of the storage locations are to be erased or reset. The reset signal can be provided to each pin at the same or substantially the same time such that the reset signal can be provided to each storage location to be erased or reset in parallel to facilitate erasing or resetting each storage location in a single clock cycle.

In accordance with one embodiment the secure memory component optionally can contain a scrambler component that can comprise a scrambling mechanism that can be utilized to facilitate scrambling data values being written to storage locations in the secure memory array and or descrambling data values being read from storage locations in the secure memory array based in part on a scrambler key. For example data having a value of 0 can be written to a storage location in the secure memory array . The data can be scrambled using the scrambler key such that the data value can be a different value than 0 when stored. When the scrambled data is read from the storage location the data can be descrambled using that scrambler key such that the original data value of 0 can be obtained. The scrambler key can be changed as desired.

In accordance with another aspect the scrambler component can be utilized to facilitate generating pseudo random numbers. For instance the security component can facilitate performing a reset e.g. in a single clock cycle to reset or erase to a predefined value all or a subset of storage locations in the secure memory array . The scrambler key can be changed and the predefined data value s for one or more of the reset storage locations can be read and can be descrambled using the new scrambler key e.g. scrambler key that is different from the first scrambler key . The data value s of the descrambled data can have an unknown value or virtually unknown value where the data value s can be based in part on the scrambling function associated with the new scrambler key. As a result one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated based in part on this descrambled data such as more fully described herein.

In accordance with an aspect the security component can include a processor component that can be a processor controller and or microcontroller that can be utilized to facilitate erasing or resetting storage locations in the secure memory component . The processor component can generate commands e.g. reset commands execute commands and control the flow of information to or from the secure memory component . It is to be appreciated and understood that the processor component can be included within the security component as depicted can be a stand alone unit can be within another component or any suitable combination thereof.

In another aspect the security component can contain a sensor component that can sense detect and monitor activity associated with the memory component . The sensor component can comprise one or more sensors e.g. analog sensors that can monitor sense and or measure respective security related attributes such as temperature s voltage level s integrity of a casing e.g. casing of memory component casing of an electronic device associated with the memory component etc. entity authentication and or other security related attributes associated with the memory component . Hackers or other entities may try to tamper with the memory component to learn sensitive or personal information associated with the user of the memory component . Hackers or other entities can attempt to manipulate or compromise the memory component by controlling the temperature voltage level or other security related attributes associated with the memory component in order to access the memory component and or secure memory component and data therein or learn information that can be utilized to access the memory component and data therein.

In accordance with one aspect the sensor component can transmit sensed information to a memory reset component in the security component that in conjunction with the processor component can evaluate the sensed information and can determine whether a security breach is detected based in part on predetermined reset criteria. If the memory reset component determines that a security breach has occurred the memory reset component can transmit a reset signal to the reset component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component . For instance the memory reset component and or processor component can evaluate sensed information to determine whether a sensed or measured value related to a security related attribute is at a predetermined value e.g. expected value or within a predetermined range of values e.g. an expected range of values whether a sensor or switch has been triggered to switch to a different state e.g. switch on a casing that can be triggered when the casing has been opened or disrupted which can indicate a security breach has occurred whether there has been a predetermined maximum number of failed attempts to authenticate in order to gain access to the memory component or portion thereof etc.

In accordance with one embodiment the sensor component can evaluate sensed information and can determine whether a security breach has occurred with regard to one or more sensors. The sensor component can transmit e.g. automatically transmit a reset signal to the reset component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a select subset of storage locations if the sensor component detects a security breach with regard to a sensor s .

Referring again to the memory reset component the memory reset component also can facilitate erasing or resetting all or a select portion of the storage locations in the secure memory component after secure processes secure functions and or secure computations have been performed for a given operation e.g. read write . . . in accordance with predetermined reset criteria. The memory reset component can monitor the performance of secure processes functions and computations associated with the secure memory component . When the memory reset component receives information from processor component indicating or otherwise determines that the secure processes functions and or computations for a given operation s have been completed the memory reset component in conjunction with the processor component can facilitate transmitting a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a desired e.g. select portion of the storage locations in the secure memory component in a single clock cycle in accordance with the predetermined reset criteria.

In still another aspect the processor component can be associated with a cryptographic component that can facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data to facilitate securing data being written to stored in and or read from the memory component . The cryptographic component can facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data in accordance with a cryptographic protocol s as desired. In accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter the cryptographic component can provide symmetric cryptographic tools and accelerators e.g. Twofish Blowfish Advanced Encryption Standard AES Triple Data Encryption Standard TDES International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA CAST5 RC4 etc. to facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data in order to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . Cryptographic component can also provide asymmetric cryptographic accelerators and tools e.g. Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA Digital Signature Standard DSS and the like to facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data in order to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . Additionally cryptographic component can provide accelerators and tools e.g. Secure Hash Algorithm SHA and its variants such as for example SHA 0 SHA 1 SHA 224 SHA 256 SHA 384 and SHA 512 to facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data in order to facilitate securing data associated the memory component .

In one aspect cryptographic computation results e.g. intermediate results cryptographic algorithms cryptographic keys and or other information associated with cryptographic processes performed by or in conjunction with the cryptographic component can be stored e.g. temporarily stored in storage locations in the secure memory component while a given operation s is being performed.

In yet another aspect the processor component can be associated with an authentication component that can solicit authentication data e.g. authentication credential from an entity and based in part on the authentication data so solicited can be employed individually and or in conjunction with information acquired and ascertained as a result of biometric modalities employed to facilitate control access to the memory component and data associated therewith. The authentication data can be in the form of a password e.g. a sequence of humanly cognizable characters a pass phrase e.g. a sequence of alphanumeric characters that can be similar to a typical password but is typically of greater length and contains non humanly cognizable characters in addition to humanly cognizable characters a pass code e.g. Personal Identification Number PIN and the like for example. Additionally and or alternatively public key infrastructure PKI data can also be employed by authentication component . PKI arrangements can provide for trusted third parties to vet and affirm entity identity through the use of public keys that typically can be certificates issued by the trusted third parties. Such arrangements can enable entities to be authenticated to each other and to use information in certificates e.g. public keys and private keys session keys Traffic Encryption Keys TEKs cryptographic system specific keys and or other keys to facilitate encrypting and decrypting messages communicated between entities.

The authentication component can implement one or more machine implemented techniques to identify an entity by its unique physical and behavioral characteristics and attributes. Biometric modalities that can be employed can include for example face recognition wherein measurements of key points on an entity s face can provide a unique pattern that can be associated with the entity iris recognition that measures from the outer edge towards the pupil the patterns associated with the colored part of the eye the iris to detect unique features associated with an entity s iris and finger print identification that scans the corrugated ridges of skin that are non continuous and form a pattern that can provide distinguishing features to identify an entity.

The authentication component also can interface and or can be associated with an interface s such as a keypad scanner etc. that can receive authentication data such as password PIN biometric information e.g. information associated with fingerprints eye features facial features voice recognition etc. associated with an entity. The authentication component can evaluate e.g. compare received authentication data and stored valid authentication information e.g. valid PIN to compare to a receive PIN valid template for evaluating biometric data to facilitate determining whether and or what level of access rights can be granted to an entity with respect to the memory component . The valid authentication information can be stored in a secure region in the memory component .

In one aspect authentication information e.g. received authentication data valid authentication information associated with the authentication component can be stored e.g. temporarily stored in storage locations in the secure memory component during a given operation s or authentication procedure. In another aspect other authentication related information such as key information algorithms etc. can be stored in storage locations in the secure memory component .

In accordance with an embodiment the security component optionally can include a random number generator component that can be associated with the scrambler component to facilitate generating pseudo random numbers that can be utilized to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . The random number generator component can receive information associated with descrambled data from the scrambler component where the descrambled can be data read from storage locations in the secure memory component and descrambled by the descrambler component based in part on a scrambler key. The random number generator component can evaluate the received descrambled data information related to the scrambler key s used to scramble and descramble the data read from the storage locations memory address information respectively associated with storage locations and or other information to determine whether the received descrambled data is suitable for generating pseudo random numbers based in part on predetermined random number criteria.

For instance the random number generator component can receive descrambled data and scrambler key information where a reset of the storage locations associated with the descrambled data has not been performed and can determine that the received descrambled data is not suitable for use to generate pseudo random numbers. As another example the random number generator component can receive descrambled sets of data respectively associated with a subset of storage locations of the secure memory component memory addresses respectively associated with the subset of storage locations scrambler key information and information indicating that the scrambler key was changed after a reset of the subset of storage locations and or other information. Based in part on the predetermined random number criteria the random number generator component can determine that pseudo random numbers can be generated from such received descrambled data and that a pseudo random number can be generated with respect to each storage location from which the descrambled data was read wherein each pseudo random number can be based in part on the value of the particular piece of data read from a memory address when it is descrambled and the respective memory address from which the respective piece of descrambled data was read.

In accordance with one embodiment of the disclosed subject matter the memory component including its constituent components e.g. secure memory component security component cryptographic component etc. can be situated formed and or implemented on a single integrated circuit chip e.g. single die embedded chip which can provide improved and or increased data security of data programmed to stored in read from and or associated with the memory component . In accordance with another embodiment the memory component including its constituent components e.g. secure memory component security component cryptographic component etc. can be formed and or implemented on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip.

In one aspect the secure memory component can comprise a plurality of memory blocks that each can contain a subset of storage locations in which data such as sensitive or secret information can be stored. The reset component can be associated e.g. electrically connected to each of the memory blocks . The reset component can contain a plurality of block reset components that can be respectively associated with the plurality of memory blocks . Each block reset component can facilitate erasing or resetting storage locations contained in the memory block associated therewith. When the secure memory component receives a reset signal from the security component the reset signal can be transmitted e.g. propagated to one or more of the block reset components e.g. selected block reset component s as desired to facilitate erasing or resetting the one or more memory blocks respectively associated therewith. When a selected block reset component receives the reset signal e.g. from the security component the selected block reset component can erase or reset to a predefined value e.g. 0 FFFF . . . the storage locations in the associated memory block in a single clock cycle.

Referring to depicted is a system that can facilitate erasing or resetting storage locations in a memory block in a secure memory component to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. System can comprise a memory block which can be one of a plurality of memory blocks in a secure memory component . The memory block can be associated with a block reset component that can facilitate erasing or resetting the storage locations in the memory block . It is to be appreciated that the memory block and block reset component each can include the same or similar functionality as respective components such as more fully described herein for example with regard to system system and or system .

In one aspect the memory block can comprise a plurality of storage locations e.g. a subset of storage locations associated with the memory component in which data such as sensitive or secret information can be stored. The block reset component can include a plurality of storage reset components that can be respectively associated e.g. electrically connected to each of the storage locations in the memory block . Each storage reset component can facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value the storage location associated therewith. When the block reset component receives a reset signal the reset signal can immediately be provided e.g. transmitted propagated to each storage reset component in the memory block and in a single clock cycle the storage reset components can erase or reset to a predefined value e.g. 0s Fs the storage locations respectively associated therewith in the memory block .

Turning to illustrated is a system that can employ intelligence to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. System can include a memory component memory array secure memory component and security component . The memory component memory array secure memory component and security component each can be the same or similar as respective components such as described herein for example with regard to system system system and or system .

In one aspect system can include a host processor that can be associated with the memory component as well as other components associated with system . In accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter the host processor can be a typical applications processor that can manage communications and run applications. For example the host processor can be a processor that can be utilized by a computer a mobile handset a PDA or other electronic device such as more fully described herein. The host processor can generate commands including read write and or erase commands in order to facilitate reading data from writing data to and or erasing data from the memory component .

The system can further include an intelligent component that can be associated with the memory component including the security component and secure memory component to facilitate analyzing data associated with the memory component in order to facilitate making inferences and or determinations regarding functions e.g. erase or reset of storage locations in the secure memory component that can be performed e.g. automatically performed by the memory component . The intelligent component can receive information related to the memory component and can analyze e.g. evaluate current and or historical information related to the memory component and based in part on such analysis the intelligent component can render an inference s and or a determination s regarding for example whether a security breach or tamper event has occurred a type of security breach or tamper event a type of response e.g. automatically erase or reset a subset of storage locations in the secure memory component that can be employed or initiated with regard to a security breach or tamper event whether a received descrambled data value can be a suitable pseudo random number etc.

For example the security component e.g. via a sensor component can detect a variance in a temperature level or a particular voltage level associated with the memory component . Information regarding the detected temperature variance or voltage variance can be provided to the intelligent component and based in part on current and or historical evidence the intelligent component can infer whether the detected variance of the temperature level or of the particular voltage level is associated with a security breach or tamper event.

It is to be understood that the intelligent component can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data e.g. historical data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

System also can include a presentation component that can present data associated with the host processor . It is to be appreciated that the presentation component can be incorporated into the host processor and or can be a stand alone unit as depicted . The presentation component can provide various types of user interfaces to facilitate interaction between a user and any component coupled to the host processor .

The presentation component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into the host processor .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can than provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or an application programming interface API . In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and enhanced graphics adaptor EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Referring to illustrated is a methodology that can facilitate erasing or resetting storage locations to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. At a security related event can be detected. In one aspect a security component can detect the occurrence of a security related event wherein the security related event can be a security breach or completion of a secure process es secure function s and or secure computation s associated with the memory component for example.

At a subset of storage locations associated with a secure memory component can be erased or reset to a predefined value in response to the security related event based in part on predetermined reset criteria. In one aspect the security component can receive information indicating that the security related event occurred and based in part on predetermined reset criteria the security component can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value a subset of storage locations in the secure memory component to remove content e.g. sensitive or secret information that was stored in those storage locations . The reset signal can be provided to each storage location of the subset of storage locations at the same or substantially the same time to facilitate erasing or resetting the storage locations in parallel where such erase or reset can be performed in a single clock cycle to efficiently remove the content from those storage locations . At this point methodology can end.

At a security breach can be detected. In one aspect the sensor component can evaluate sensed information related to a security related attribute s and can determine whether a security breach has occurred based in part on predetermined reset criteria. In accordance with an embodiment the sensor component can provide information e.g. monitored information related to a security related attribute s to a memory reset component which can evaluate such information to facilitate determining whether a security breach is detected based in part on predetermined reset criteria. For example the monitored information associated with a security related attribute such as a temperature level associated with the memory component can be evaluated to determined whether the temperature level is outside of an expected temperature range for the particular operation s being performed based in part on the predetermined reset criteria. If it is determined that the temperature level is outside of the expected temperature level range it can be determined that a security breach is detected.

At a reset signal can be transmitted. In one aspect upon determining that a security breach is detected a reset signal can be transmitted e.g. automatically transmitted from the security component to the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component in a single clock cycle. The reset signal can be transmitted by the sensor component or the processor component sensor component and memory reset component can operate in conjunction to determine whether a security breach is detected and to transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component . In accordance with another aspect when the reset signal is received by the secure memory component the reset signal can be provided to each selected storage location in the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting the selected storage locations instantaneously or substantially instantaneously e.g. in a single clock cycle .

At the secure memory component e.g. or a portion thereof can be erased or reset to a predefined value. In one aspect the reset signal can be provided to each selected storage location e.g. all or a select subset of storage locations of the secure memory component that is to be erased or reset. Based in part on the reset signal each selected storage location can be erased or reset to a predefined value in a single clock cycle. At this point methodology can end.

Turning to depicted is another methodology that can facilitate erasing or resetting a secure memory component or a portion thereof to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. At activity associated with the memory component can be monitored. Activity can relate to for example security related attributes and or events e.g. tamper events completion of secure processes secure functions and or secure computations . . . associated with the memory component which can be monitored. In one aspect a memory component can comprise a security component that can facilitate erasing or resetting the secure memory component or a portion thereof to facilitate securing data associated with the memory component . The security component can employ a sensor component that can comprise one or more sensors e.g. analog sensors that can monitor sense measure and or evaluate values respectively associated with security related attributes. The security related attributes can include for example temperature level s and or a voltage level s associated with the memory component or a part s thereof integrity of a casing associated with the memory component authentication associated with the memory component etc.

At a determination can be made as to whether a security breach is detected. In one aspect information related to the security related attributes including monitored information related to the security related attributes information related to a desired or an expected value or range of values for a security related attribute s information related to a predetermined maximum number of authentication attempts and or other information associated with the memory component can be evaluated to facilitate determining whether a security breach is detected based in part on predetermined reset criteria. The sensor component can perform such evaluation or the processor component sensor component and memory reset component can operate in conjunction to perform such evaluation and determine whether a security breach is detected. If it is determined that no security breach is detected methodology can return to reference numeral to continue monitoring security related attributes associated with the memory component and can proceed from that point.

If at it is determined that a security breach is detected at a determination can be made regarding whether a reset or an erase is to be performed. In one aspect the processor component sensor component and memory reset component can work in conjunction to facilitate determining whether a reset or erase is to be performed in response to a security breach based in part on predetermined reset criteria. For example it can be determined that a security breach has occurred. The information related to the security breach can be evaluated to determine whether the security breach is severe enough that an erase or a reset of the secure memory component or a portion thereof is to be performed based in part on the predetermined reset criteria. As another example as desired based in part on predetermined reset criteria a given security breach can result in a reset signal automatically being transmitted from the security component to the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component . If it is determined that an erase or a reset is not to be performed in response to the security breach methodology can return to reference numeral to continue monitoring security related attributes associated with the memory component and can proceed from that point.

If at it is determined that a reset or an erase of at least a portion of the secure memory component is to be performed at a reset signal can be transmitted. In one aspect upon determining that an erase or a reset is to be performed in response to a detected security breach a reset signal can be transmitted e.g. automatically transmitted from the security component to the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component in a single clock cycle. In one embodiment the processor component and or memory reset component can operate in conjunction to transmit the reset signal to the secure memory component . In accordance with another aspect when the reset signal is received by the secure memory component the reset signal can be provided to each selected storage location in the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting the selected storage locations instantaneously or substantially instantaneously e.g. in a single clock cycle .

At all or a portion of the secure memory component can be erased or reset to a predefined value. In one aspect the reset signal can be provided to each storage location e.g. all or a select subset of storage locations of the secure memory component that is selected to be erased or reset. Based in part on the reset signal in a single clock cycle each selected storage location can be erased or reset to a predefined value to remove the content e.g. sensitive or secret information that was stored therein. At this point methodology can end.

Referring to illustrated is a methodology that can reset or erase all or a portion of a secure memory component to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. At one or more secure processes secure functions and or secure computations can be performed. For example a cryptographic component and or processor component can facilitate performing secure computations e.g. cryptographic computations associated with encrypting or decrypting data associated with the memory component . The security component can monitor the performance of the secure computation s to facilitate determining the status of the secure computation s and or the secure process e.g. cryptographic process associated therewith. Information related to the secure computation s such as intermediate cryptographic computation results cryptographic keys cryptographic algorithms etc. can be stored in the secure memory component while a secure computation s is being performed.

At a determination can be made regarding whether the secure process es secure function s and or secure computation s is complete. In one aspect the security component can receive information regarding a secure process es secure function s and or secure computation s being performed. The security component can determine whether there is another secure process secure function and or secure computation to be performed with regard to a given operation s e.g. read write . . . . If it is determined that the secure process secure function and or secure computation is not complete methodology can return to reference numeral where one or more additional secure processes secure functions and or secure computations can be performed for example with regard to a given operation s associated with the memory component .

If at it is determined that the secure process secure function and or secure computation is complete at a reset signal can be transmitted. In one aspect the security component can receive information indicating that the secure process secure function and or secure computation associated with a given operation s is complete. Based in part on predefined criteria e.g. reset can be performed when secure computations associated with a secure function are complete the security component can determine that all or a select portion e.g. select subset of storage locations of the secure memory component can be erased or reset to a predefined value. Upon determining that an erase or a reset is to be performed a reset signal can be transmitted e.g. automatically transmitted from the security component to the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting to a predefined value all or a select subset of storage locations in the secure memory component which can be performed in a single clock cycle. In one embodiment the processor component and or memory reset component can operate in conjunction to transmit the reset signal to the secure memory component . In accordance with another aspect when the reset signal is received by the secure memory component the reset signal can be provided to each selected storage location in the secure memory component to facilitate erasing or resetting the selected storage locations instantaneously or substantially instantaneously e.g. in a single clock cycle .

At all or a portion of the secure memory component can be erased or reset to a predefined value. In one aspect the reset signal can be provided to each storage location e.g. all or a select subset of storage locations of the secure memory component that is selected to be erased or reset. Based in part on the reset signal in a single clock cycle each selected storage location can be erased or reset to a predefined value in a single clock cycle in order to remove data such as sensitive or secret information that was stored in the selected storage locations . At this point methodology can end.

Turning to depicted is a methodology that can facilitate generating random numbers e.g. pseudo random numbers to facilitate securing data associated with a memory component in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. At a reset of a subset of storage locations can be performed. In one aspect the security component can transmit a reset signal to the secure memory component to facilitate resetting or erasing a subset of storage locations to a predefined value based in part on a predetermined reset criteria e.g. in response to a security related event .

At a scrambler key can be changed. In one aspect a scrambler component can be employed to scramble and descramble data being respectively written to and or read from storage locations in the secure memory component based in part on a scrambler key having a unique scrambler function. As desired after a reset a first scrambler key can be changed to a new scrambler key. For example the processor component and or cryptographic component can facilitate changing the scrambler key. The scrambler key can be changed to facilitate generating one or more pseudo random numbers or can be changed for another desired reason which can still facilitate generating one or more pseudo random numbers.

At data can be read from the reset storage locations . In one aspect respective sets of data can be read from respective storage locations of the subset that was reset where each set of data can have a data value that can be a predefined data value e.g. 0s Fs associated with a reset of the respective storage locations . The processor component can facilitate reading the data from respective storage locations . At the read data can be descrambled based in part on the new scrambler key. In one aspect the scrambler component can facilitate descrambling the respective sets of read data e.g. a set s of data having a predefined data value after a reset using the new scrambler key which can be different from the first scrambler key. As the new scrambler key can have a unique scrambling function the descrambled sets of data can have unknown or virtually unknown values.

At one or more random numbers can be generated based in part on predetermined random number criteria. In one aspect a random number generator component can receive the respective sets of data descrambled using the new scrambler key and or other information such as the respective memory addresses in which the respective sets of data were stored and using the respective sets of descrambled data and or the other information can facilitate generating one or more pseudo random numbers based in part on the predetermined random number criteria scrambler key information and or other information e.g. respective memory addresses of sets of data respective input values of sets of data etc. . In accordance with an aspect as desired the value of a set of descrambled data can be utilized as a pseudo random number or further processing can be performed to generate a pseudo random number.

In accordance with another aspect if the scrambling is based on the scrambler key and the input value one pseudo random number can be generated when the scrambler key is changed after a reset of all or a portion of the storage locations in the secure memory component . If the scrambling is based on the respective memory addresses of the respective storage locations in the secure memory component as well as the scrambler key and input values when the scrambler key is changed after a reset a different pseudo random number can be generated with regard to each storage location which can result in a specified number of pseudo random numbers being generated based in part on the number of storage locations from which the data is read and descrambled. As a result one or more pseudo random numbers can be generated quickly and efficiently. At this point methodology can end.

Referring to illustrated is a block diagram of an exemplary non limiting electronic device that can incorporate system system system system and or system or a portion s thereof and or can utilize and implement methodology methodology methodology methodology and or methodology or a portion s thereof. The electronic device can include but is not limited to a computer a laptop computer network equipment e.g. routers access points a media player and or recorder e.g. audio player and or recorder video player and or recorder a television a smart card a phone a cellular phone a smart phone an electronic organizer a PDA a portable email reader a digital camera an electronic game e.g. video game an electronic device associated with digital rights management a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA card a trusted platform module TPM a Hardware Security Module HSM a set top box a digital video recorder a gaming console a navigation system or device e.g. global position satellite GPS system a secure memory device with computational capabilities a device with a tamper resistant chip s an electronic device associated with an industrial control system an embedded computer in a machine e.g. an airplane a copier a motor vehicle a microwave oven . . . and the like.

Components of the electronic device can include but are not limited to a processor component a system memory with nonvolatile memory and a system bus that can couple various system components including the system memory to the processor component . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Electronic device can typically include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the electronic device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media can include volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media can include but is not limited to RAM SRAM nonvolatile memory e.g. flash memory EEPROM EPROM ROM NVRAM etc. or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by electronic device . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory e.g. memory array . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within electronic device such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that can be immediately accessible to and or presently be operated on by processor component . By way of example and not limitation system memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data. In one embodiment system memory can comprise the memory component including the secure memory component and security memory component such as more fully described herein.

The nonvolatile memory can be removable or non removable. For example the nonvolatile memory can be in the form of a removable memory card or a USB flash drive. In accordance with one aspect such nonvolatile memory can include flash memory e.g. single bit flash memory multi bit flash memory ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or NVRAM e.g. FeRAM or a combination thereof for example. Further a flash memory can comprise NOR flash memory and or NAND flash memory.

A user can enter commands and information into the electronic device through input devices not shown such as a keypad microphone tablet or touch screen although other input devices can also be utilized. These and other input devices can be connected to the processor component through input interface component that can be connected to the system bus . Other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB can also be utilized. A graphics subsystem not shown can also be connected to the system bus . A display device not shown can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface component which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a display the electronic device can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers not shown which can be connected through output interface component .

As used herein terms component system interface and the like can refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over the other aspects or designs.

What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has or having or variations thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

