---

title: Method and system for visualizing weblog social network communities
abstract: A system for providing a visual representation of electronic, on-line journals, such as those generally referred to as “Weblogs” or “Blogs”, that uses a treemap display object in a graphical user interface to represent social networking characteristics discovered in, and aggregated from a set of on-line journals. The generated display object includes on-line journal representations shown within the social network communities to which they belong. This visual organization is provided through a treemap representation, in which an enclosing region for a set of journals is broken up into sub-regions corresponding to social network communities. Representations of individual on-line journals are provided as inner regions within the sub-regions for the communities. The enclosing region, sub-regions and inner regions may be rectangular, or any other specific geometric shape as appropriate for a given application. The relative size of an inner region representing a specific journal may be determined based on how strongly related that journal is to the other members of the community, or on how active that journal is in terms of reads or writes, or based on some other criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07730409&OS=07730409&RS=07730409
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07730409
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080314
---
The present application is a Continuation application under 35 U.S.C. 120 of commonly owned prior application Ser. No. 11 138 568 filed May 26 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 373 606 in the name of Richard Gorzela now allowed.

The present invention relates generally to user interfaces and more specifically to a user interface for visually representing social network communities within sets of on line electronic journals.

As it is generally known the World Wide Web is a major service provided over the Internet using Web server computer systems that store and disseminate Web pages. Web pages are HTML HyperText Mark up Language documents containing text graphics animations and videos and are accessible via Web browser application programs such as Internet Explorer Netscape Safari Opera and Firefox. The browser program renders Web pages it obtains via HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol on a display screen. A collection of Web pages makes up a Web site. Weblogs or Blogs are an increasingly popular type of Web site. Weblogs are an example of personalized on line electronic journals. Weblogs typically contain dated entries usually in reverse chronological order about a particular topic or individual. Weblogs are associated with and written by one or more contributors sometimes referred to as Bloggers and referred to herein as authors. Entries also referred to herein as postings or posts contain content defined by a Weblog author and commentary by other users about the entry or links to such commentary. A set of links to other Weblogs sometimes referred to as a Blogroll and a search facility are often also included in a Weblog.

The popularity of Weblogs has increased since development applications such as Pitas Blogger and GrokSoup were released. Template based software has made it increasingly easy to add entries to a Weblog while hosting services have made it easy to create and maintain a Weblog. Various implementations of Weblogs can be found on the Web. Examples of Web sites currently containing Weblog implementations include www.blogger.com www.userland.com www.socialtext.com.

Though postings in Weblogs are typically created by one or a small group of authors many Weblog authors and other users also subscribe to read and enter comments to postings in multiple Weblogs. For example Weblog subscriptions are often provided using the RSS Rich Site Summary format for syndicating Web content. Additionally Weblog users often enter links to Weblog postings in Weblogs other than the one on which the postings were originally made. Such links are sometimes referred to as trackbacks . Trackbacks related to a given posting are often made available to readers of the original posting through the Weblog user interface. As noted above Weblog authors also often maintain a publicly available list of other Weblogs they find interesting referred to as a Blogroll. These and other features relating authors and other users through different Weblogs allow Weblog users to form social networks some of which have become popular and influential.

In existing systems it is difficult for a user to identify social networks defined through Weblogs or to identify influential Weblogs within such social networks. This problem results in part from the large and growing number of Weblogs and also from the limited features of tools that are currently available. The most common tools today provide Weblog listings identifying Weblogs 1 with the most recent posts 2 with the most comments over a given time period or 3 with the most hits over a given time period. Some Weblog implementations also list newly created Weblogs. Additionally users can performs searches via existing search tools such as Google and the like to find Weblogs or Weblog posts containing specified keywords of interests. However none of these tools help users identify social networks defined by Weblogs or influential Weblogs within such networks.

Some existing systems have attempted to provide visualizations of Weblogs in some cases using specific approaches based on what are known as treemap visual constructs. However existing Weblog visualization systems do not address identification or visualization of social networks created by groups of Weblogs. Instead they focus on characteristics such as the relative size of Weblogs or Weblog posts the number of comments to a post or the recentness of a post. For example in one existing system top level rectangles within a display object are used to represent each Weblog with the size of each rectangle determined by the number of posts in the corresponding Weblog. Inner rectangles are used to represent individual posts and each have a size determined by the length of the corresponding post. Another existing system uses inner rectangles to represent posts with the inner rectangle size determined by the number of related comments. None of these systems includes the features needed to provide a user with a convenient and rich user interface display object or objects that represents the social networks within a set of Weblogs or the influence of specific Weblogs on such social networks.

For the above reasons and others it would therefore be desirable to have a new system for representing a set of on line journals that enables users to quickly visualize social network communities within the journal set as well as the significance of individual journals within the communities.

To address the above described and other shortcomings of prior approaches a new method and system are disclosed for providing a visual representation of electronic on line journals such as those generally referred to as Weblogs or Blogs . The disclosed system uses a treemap display object in a graphical user interface to represent social networks discovered in and aggregated from a set of on line journals.

The disclosed system operates to detect and aggregate information describing social network relationships within a set of on line journals. These relationships define social network communities made up of on line journals. The disclosed system generates one or more display objects in which on line journal representations are shown within the social network communities to which they belong. This visual organization is provided through a treemap representation in which an enclosing region for the complete set of journals is broken up into sub regions corresponding to the social network communities. Representations of individual on line journals are provided as inner regions within the sub regions for the communities. The enclosing region sub regions and inner regions may for example be rectangular or any other specific geometric shape as appropriate for a given application.

Various specific social network relationships may be used to define the social network communities of on line journals that are shown in the display sub regions. For example each journal typically has one or more authors associated with it. In one embodiment a social network relationship may be present between two journals when an author of a first journal posts a comment to a second journal. Similarly on line journals often include lists of links often based on Uniform Resource Locators URLs to other on line journals. A social network relationship may be present between two journals when such a list in a first journal includes a link to a second journal. Other specific types of relationships between on line journals may be used alternatively or additionally to define social network relationships. Moreover thresholds may be used to restrict social network community membership to those journals that have sufficiently strong relationships to other journals in the community.

The relative size of an inner region representing a specific journal may be determined based on how strongly related that journal is to the other members of the community or on how active that journal is in terms of reads or writes or based on some other criteria.

Thus there is disclosed a new system for representing a set of on line journals that enables users to quickly visualize social network communities within the set as well as the significance of individual journals within the communities.

The interface is further shown including a postings category interface that allows a user to click on a category from a list to access those postings related to that category. A search interface allows a user to enter a search string in order to access postings containing that string. And a blogroll includes a list of links to other Weblogs selected by the author of the Weblog for the interface such that those other Weblogs can be accessed by clicking on the corresponding link.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the specific layout and contents of the Weblog user interface in are given solely for purposes of explanation and that many other alternative configurations layouts and contents are possible for a specific Weblog. Accordingly the present invention is not to be considered limited to use with only those Weblogs that match the user interface but rather may be used to visually represent social networks within groups of Weblogs including any specific type or kind of Weblog.

Weblog social network relationship aggregation software operates to detect and aggregate the social network relationships between Weblogs in the Weblogs . The access by the aggregation software to the Weblogs may be performed through one or more application programming interfaces APIs provided by the Weblogs .

For example the aggregation software may operate to detect when a user that enters a comment to a post in Weblog is also an author of the Weblog . In a configuration or embodiment in which such actions define a social network relationship between Weblog and that relationship would be recorded in a data structure of social network relationships across all the Weblogs for later access. Alternatively or in addition the disclosed system may be embodied such that a social network relationship between Weblog and Weblog occurs when a user comments on posts in both Weblog and Weblog . Another type of possible social network relationship between blogs may potentially occur when a trackback link has been entered into a first Weblog such as Weblog indicating a posting in a second Weblog such as Weblog . This also may result in indication of a social network relationship between Weblog and Weblog to be stored in the above mentioned data structure of social network relationships across the Weblogs . Another example of a social network relationship might be the inclusion in a blogroll for a first one of the Weblogs of a link to a second one of the Weblogs . Thus if a blogroll for Weblog included a link to Weblog this might be considered to form a social network relationship between Weblog and Weblog and similarly result in an indication of the relationship being stored in the social network relationship data structure. Alternatively or in addition social network relationships between blogs may potentially result from a user reading a first Weblog and a second Weblog.

The above are only a few examples of possible social network relationships between Weblogs that may be used in the disclosed system and those skilled in the art will recognize that other specific kinds of social network relationships between Weblogs may be used in the alternative or additionally for other specific embodiments or configurations.

In addition to any data structures used to aggregate social network relationships between Weblogs various other data structures may be used within and or by the aggregation software to identify and or associate Weblogs Weblog authors and users making comments to Weblog postings. For example a data structure mapping Weblogs to their author s user names might be maintained to identify social network relationships formed when a Weblog author enters a comment to a post in another Weblog. In one embodiment data generated during operation of the disclosed system may be persisted across sessions.

Social network relationship data aggregated from the Weblogs is processed by visualization data generating software to generate a treemap representation of the social networks defined in the Weblogs . An example of the treemap representation generated by the software is illustrated and described by the user interface display shown in . The software operates to provide Weblog social network visualization data to the user interface rendering software in the client computer system . The user interface rendering software may include a Web browser application program and the data may include or consist of HTML code provided in one or more documents and conveyed between the server system s and the client computer system using HTTP. The user interface rendering software operates to provide the visual representation of the Weblog social network communities as illustrated in .

In an alternative embodiment some or all of the functionality of the visualization data generating software and or Weblog social networking software may be provided on the client computer system . Moreover while the user interface generating software is described above as including a Web browser application program a rich client application program other than a Web browser may be used in whole or in part in addition to the Web browser or as an alternative to the Web browser to generate the visual representation and or to provide further functionality relating to the visual representation .

As shown in an illustrative embodiment of the disclosed system operates using a number of software components executing on at least one client computer system shown for purposes of illustration as the client computer system and at least one server computer system shown for purposes of illustration as Weblog server computer system s . The client computer system and Weblog server computer system may for example each include at least one processor program storage such as memory for storing program code executable on the processor and one or more input output devices and or interfaces such as data communication and or peripheral devices and or interfaces. The client computer system and Weblog server computer system are communicably connected by a data communication system such as a Local Area Network LAN the Internet or the like. The client computer system and Weblog server computer system s may further include appropriate operating system software.

As shown in an enclosing region is a rectangle within which are contained a number of rectangular sub regions each corresponding to a social network within the Blogs and that each in turn contain inner rectangles corresponding to blogs belonging to the their respective corresponding social network. Specifically the enclosing region includes a sub region representing blog social network community A a sub region representing a blog social network community B a sub region representing a blog social network community C a sub region representing a blog social network community D a sub region representing a blog social network community E and a sub region representing a blog social network community E.

Each of the sub regions shown in contain a number of inner regions representing blogs that belong to the corresponding social network community. Accordingly sub region includes inner region representing blog and inner region representing blog accordingly blog and blog belong to the social network blog community A represented by sub region . Sub region includes inner region representing blog inner region representing blog and inner region representing blog . Accordingly blog blog and blog belong to the social network blog community B represented by sub region .

Sub region includes inner region representing blog inner region representing blog and inner region representing blog . Accordingly blog blog and blog belong to the social network blog community C represented by sub region .

Sub region includes inner region representing blog inner region representing blog inner region representing blog and inner region representing blog . Blog blog blog and blog accordingly belong to the social network blog community D represented by sub region .

Sub region includes inner region representing blog inner region representing blog inner region representing blog inner region representing blog and inner region representing blog . Blog blog blog blog and blog accordingly belong to the social network blog community E represented by sub region .

Finally sub region is shown including inner region representing blog inner region representing blog inner region representing blog and inner region representing blog . Blog blog blog and blog are therefore members of social network blog community F represented by sub region .

As discussed above the disclosed system may be embodied to detect and aggregate various types of social network relationships between blogs which are then used to determine the social network community memberships of each blog. Moreover multiple social network relationships may sometimes be required for a blog to be considered a member of a social network community. For example a blog may be considered a member of a social network community if there are at least one social network relationship between that blog and each other blog in that community. In another example a blog may be considered a member of a social network community if there exist a number of social network relationships between that blog and each other blog in that community equal to or greater than some minimum threshold. Or a blog could be considered a member of a social network community if there exist a number of social network relationships between that blog and all other blogs in that community that is equal to or greater than a minimum threshold. In another embodiment a social network community could be further split into two or more sub groups based on other criteria such as subject matter. For example a first sub group of a social network community might consist of those blogs containing references to a first subject and a second sub group might consist of those blogs containing references to a second subject. If a given blog were to contain references to both subjects it would be present in and its representation displayed as part of each sub group.

The size of each sub region and or inner region in the display of may be determined in various ways. For example the size of an inner region may be determined based on and accordingly represent the number of social network relationships between the corresponding blog and other blogs in that social network blog community. In such an embodiment a blog having a relatively larger number of social network relationships within a social network community would be represented by a relatively larger inner region than the inner region representing another blog in that community with a relatively lower number of such social network relationships. This approach provides the user with a way to quickly identify which blogs are most influential within a social network community since those blogs would be represented by the relatively largest inner regions of the display. For example the relatively larger inner region with respect to inner region would indicate that blog has more social network relationships to other blogs within the blog community E than blog . Other characteristics or attributes may alternatively or additionally be used to determine inner region size such as number of postings in a blog number of comments to postings in a blog time since the last posting or comment was made in a blog number of times a blog has been read and others.

A given blog may be a member of more than one social network community. Thus blog is shown having inner region representations in sub regions and in the example of . A blog for which there are no social network relationships with other blogs may be presented in a very small inner region outside the sub regions representing social network communities or not represented at all.

The inner regions of may be labeled in a manner appropriate to identify the blog they represent. For example inner region may have a user readable label identifying blog such as a blog name associated with blog. Each other inner region may similarly have a label identifying the blog it represents. Sub regions may also be given visual attributes to make them distinct from each other such as shadings colors super imposed labels or the like.

Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that programs defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a computer in many forms including but not limited to a information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROM or CD ROM disks readable by a computer I O attachment b information alterably stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks and hard drives or c information conveyed to a computer through communication media for example using wireless baseband signaling or broadband signaling techniques including carrier wave signaling techniques such as over computer or telephone networks via a modem.

While the invention is described through the above exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that modification to and variation of the illustrated embodiments may be made without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed. Moreover while the preferred embodiments are described in connection with various illustrative program command structures one skilled in the art will recognize that they may be embodied using a variety of specific command structures.

