---

title: Method and system for evaluating expansion of a business
abstract: A method for evaluating expansion of a business where the business is located in a first geographic area. The method includes receiving information about the business, querying a business information source and a demographic information source using the information, receiving data from the business information source and the demographic information source in response to the querying, processing the data using business expansion factors to obtain a rank order, where the data comprises a plurality of potential geographic areas for expanding the business, where the plurality of potential geographic areas are evaluated on the business expansion factors to determine a similarity to the first geographic area to obtain a rank order, and presenting, in the rank order, each of the plurality of potential geographic areas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08095412&OS=08095412&RS=08095412
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08095412
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081103
---
Businesses from time to time feel a need to expand to new geographic areas. Often though businesses lack the expertise to determine the potential geographic areas for expanding its business. For example the owner of a business located in Iowa City Iowa and providing environmental engineering services may want to expand to one or two other strategic locations in the United States. The owner may not have the expertise to make an educated determination as to where to expand.

If the owner of this business wants to expand she may need to find a resource to assist her in determining where to expand. Consultants may be available in helping to generate and evaluate options but this can be expensive. In addition the results often may not lead to an optimal result for the owner of the business. Lacking the ability to efficiently and accurately determine and evaluate geographic locations for the owner of a business to expand that business may lead to lost opportunities or in the worst case a dissolution of the business because of poor decisions made in the expansion process that drain the financial resources of the company.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for evaluating expansion of a business where the business is located in a first geographic area comprising receiving information about the business querying a business information source and a demographic information source using the information receiving data from the business information source and the demographic information source in response to the querying processing the data using business expansion factors to obtain a rank order wherein the data comprises a plurality of potential geographic areas for expanding the business wherein the plurality of potential geographic areas are evaluated on the business expansion factors to determine a similarity to the first geographic area to obtain a rank order and presenting in the rank order each of the plurality of potential geographic areas.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable medium embodying instructions executable by a processor to perform method steps for evaluating business expansion the instructions comprising functionality to receive information about the business query a business information source and a demographic information source using the information receive data from the business information source and the demographic information source in response to the querying process the data using business expansion factors to obtain a rank order wherein the data comprises a plurality of potential geographic areas for expanding the business wherein the plurality of potential geographic areas are evaluated on the business expansion factors to determine a similarity to the first geographic area to obtain a rank order and present in the rank order each of the plurality of potential geographic areas.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for evaluating business expansion comprising an inquiry storage center configured to store a system inquiry template and inquiry records a business growth networking system operatively connected to a business information source a demographic information source and the inquiry storage center and wherein the business growth networking system is configured to receive information about the business query the business information source and the demographic information source using the information receive data from the business information source and the demographic information source in response to the querying and process the data using business expansion factors to obtain a rank order wherein the data comprises a plurality of potential geographic areas for expanding the business wherein the plurality of potential geographic areas are evaluated on the business expansion factors to determine a similarity to the first geographic area to obtain a rank order and presenting in the rank order each of the plurality of potential geographic areas.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system to evaluate the expansion of a business. More specifically embodiments of the invention enable a business owner to determine potential geographic areas for expanding the business.

In one embodiment of the invention the business information source s may be one or more sources that include historical and or regularly updated current business information that pertains to the potential geographic areas in the country of interest that is the subject of the business expansion. Each business information source is operatively connected to the business growth networking system . Each business information source is configured to receive a query from the business growth networking system to identify potential geographic locations that correlate to the business profile of a business that is considering expansion. In response to each query each business information source is configured to send responsive data to the business growth networking system . The responsive data may include but is not limited to financial data industry specific data and performance data related to the country and type of business that is subject to the query.

In one embodiment of the invention the business information sources s may include information on publicly traded companies which may be obtained from annual reports and various filings with governmental bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Further the business information source s may include information about privately held companies businesses. The information related to privately held companies businesses may be compiled by third parties and made available for a fee and or a subscription rate. As an example a third party may conduct surveys with TurboTax or Quicken subscribers that own privately held companies businesses to collect information about those subscribers and the third party may offer results of those surveys for a fee or subscription rate. TurboTax is a registered service mark of Intuit Inc. of Mountain View Calif. and Quicken is a registered trademark of Intuit Inc. of Mountain View Calif. In another example companies may host a forum or community virtual or actual where members of that forum or community act as resources for other members of that forum or community. As an example TurboTax subscribers that own privately held companies businesses may access the Turbo Tax Live community where those Turbo Tax subscribers may post questions which are answered by other Turbo Tax subscribers with knowledge of that particular issue. In one embodiment of the invention a business using a financial software system s may be a business information source . In such cases the business allows some or all of the information related to the business to be accessed and or available to others. For example a business that uses Quicken may have some or all of the information related to the business accessible via Quicken . In one or more embodiments a group of businesses using the same financial software system may allow some or all of the information related to each of the businesses to be aggregated where the aggregation serves as a business information source . For example businesses that use Quicken may have some or all of the information related to the business to be accessed such that it can be aggregated by a host which functions in part as a business information source .

In one embodiment of the invention the demographic information source s may be one or more sources that include historical and or regularly updated current demographic information that pertains to the potential geographic areas in the country of interest that is the subject of the business expansion. Each demographic information source is operatively connected to the business growth networking system . Each demographic information source is configured to receive a query from the business growth networking system to identify potential geographic locations that correlate to the demographics of the geographic location of a business that is considering expansion. In response to each query each demographic information source is configured to send responsive data to the business growth networking system . The responsive data may include but is not limited to population income age sexual and cultural diversity and economic information related to the geographic location and the type of business that is subject to the query.

In one embodiment of the invention the demographic information sources may be public or private and may be local domestic or international in scope. Further the demographic information sources may be regularly updated. Examples of demographic information sources may include but are not limited to government sources e.g. the International Data Base by the U.S. Census Bureau sources from educational institutions e.g. Census Demographic Data by Mansfield University and private sources e.g. GeoLytics Catosphere which may be free or available for a fee. Catosphere is a registered service mark of Catenate LLC of Manlius N.Y. 

In one embodiment of the invention the business growth networking system is configured to generate and issue queries to both the business information source s and to the demographic information source s . The business growth networking system is also configured to receive data in response to a query from the business information source s and from the demographic information source s . In addition the business growth networking system is configured to evaluate the data returned by the business information source s and the demographic information source s in response to a query to determine the potential geographic areas that the user may consider in expanding her business. In one or more embodiments of the invention the business growth networking system may be configured to generate forecasts using the data returned by the business information source s and the demographic information source s for some point in time in the future. The results of the evaluation may be presented to the user via the user interface . The manner in which the results are presented is determined by the display module described below .

In one embodiment of the invention the query that the business growth networking system is configured to generate and issue to the business information source s and to the demographic information source s is derived from information supplied by the user via the user interface . The business growth networking system may use one or more relational data models such as the Universal Customer System UCS to retrieve the data for the query. Further the business growth networking system may use an application programming interface API to interface with the information sources e.g. business information source s and to the demographic information source s . The business growth networking system may also use other sources to interface with the information sources e.g. business information source s and to the demographic information source s including but not limited to subscription services and aggregation systems.

The business growth networking system includes a display module which is configured to facilitate communication between the business growth networking system and the user interface . The output from each query is presented in various manners e.g. electronically in hard copy etc. and forms e.g. tables graphs maps pictures etc. via the display module . The display module is also configured to send notifications from the business growth networking system via the user interface . When the user provides a response to a question or gives a command the response or command is sent from the user interface to the display module .

In one embodiment of the invention the inquiry storage center corresponds to any persistent storage system configured to i receive queries from the business growth networking system ii service any such queries to generate responses iii return the generated responses to the business growth networking system iv maintain the system inquiry template s and v populate and maintain the inquiry record s . The persistent storage within the inquiry storage center may correspond to any persistent storage medium s .

In one embodiment of the invention the system inquiry template includes information entered by the user into each field of the template see . In one embodiment of the invention the system inquiry template is interactive. For example as the user starts populating fields in the template other fields presented to the user may vary change in response. Examples of the system inquiry template are described in .

In one embodiment of the invention each inquiry record includes a query generated from information obtained provided by a user in the system inquiry template . In addition the inquiry record may also include the results of the query or queries and subsequent evaluation by the business growth networking system. For example the inquiry record may include i a query to the demographic information source s ii the results of the query to the demographic information source s iii a query to the business information source s iv the results of the query to the business information source s and v the evaluation of the aforementioned results by the business growth networking system .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned components may be located on a single system or distributed across multiple systems. Further in embodiments in which the components are distributed across multiple systems the distributed components may communicate over wired and or wireless connections using well known communication protocols.

In Step the presence of a user initiating a session is determined in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. This determination may be made after the user provides a form of registration such as a user name and password but the determination may also occur by the user initiating the business growth networking system without a form of registration. If the user is using the business growth networking system for the first time she may be asked to register by providing certain information such as her name the name of the company the address of the company the line of business in which the company is involved the number of employees at the company and the number of years the company has existed.

In Step a greeting message is presented to the user that asks the user whether she would like to participate in a tutorial before using a business growth networking system in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention a determination is made about whether the user requested a tutorial. If the user requests a tutorial then the method proceeds to Step . If the user did not request a tutorial then the process proceeds to Step .

In Step the user participates in the tutorial which familiarizes her with the various screens she may encounter and information she may need to provide in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The user may have the ability to end the tutorial at any time.

In Step the user is prompted to enter data about her business in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Examples of the information provided by the user may include the state province territory or other division of land in a country in which the business is located the city in which the business is located the age range of the typical customer of the business whether the business deals in goods or services the specific type of goods the business sells or services in which the business is engaged the annual gross revenue of the business and the country in which the user is interested in expanding her business. The user may be asked to enter the data using text boxes drop down selections check boxes radio buttons free form entry or any combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention more than one location may be entered into a given field. For example for a single query the user may be able to select more than one country in which she wants to consider expanding her business. In addition as discussed above the choices in a given field of a data entry template may change depending on the selection that the user made in a previous field. For example if the user chooses North Carolina in the field asking her the state in which her business is located then only cities in North Carolina may appear as choices for the next field which asks the city in which her business is located. Similarly the fields themselves may also change depending on the selection made by the user in a previous field. For example if the user selects that her business deals in goods rather than services then the next field asks the user the type of goods in which her business sells.

In one or more embodiments of the invention if the user owns an e business a catalog business or some other type of business where the business does not operate in a particular city but rather caters to customers in a state province country or some other region or territory the data entry template may be modified to include a field that recognizes this type of business and modifies the remaining fields accordingly. Also in one or more embodiments the user may select a time in the future to expand her business creating a forecast of potential geographic areas using historical and current data returned from the business information source s and the demographic information source s to create the forecast.

In Step the user determines whether she wants to exit without submitting a query in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. If the user chooses to exit without submitting a query the session ends in Step . If the user does not want to exit before submitting a query the process proceeds to Step .

In Step the user determines whether she wants to clear the fields in the data entry template before submitting a query. If the user decides to clear the fields in the data entry template before submitting a query then a command is issued to clear the fields of the data entry template. The process then proceeds to Step . If the user decides not to clear the fields in the data entry template before submitting a query then a request for a query is submitted using the information that the user entered in the fields of the data entry template . At this point the process proceeds to Step .

In Step a request for a query is received using the user information from the data entry template and the process proceeds to Step where a determination is made whether the user has completed all of the fields in the data entry template. If the user fails to complete all of the fields in the data entry template then a query is unable to generate and the process proceeds to Step . If the user completes all of the fields in the data entry template then a query is generated and the process proceeds to Step .

In Step the user receives a message notifying her that all fields must be completed in order to submit a query. The process then proceeds to Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the fields of the data entry template retain the information that the user entered before trying to submit the request for a query in Step . In addition the user may be notified as to which specific fields were incomplete or were not completed properly. Such notification may be communicated by showing the deficient fields in red or some color other than the default color for the data entry template by providing a message to notify the user of the specific fields that are deficient or by some other mechanism.

In Step the information from fields in the data entry template is extracted to generate a query or multiple queries . In Step the query is generated and issued. The query or multiple queries is issued to one or more information sources e.g. business information source s and or demographic information source s .

In Step the results of the query are received in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The data received from each information source may include geographic areas within the country designated by the user into which the business may be expanded. The process then proceeds to Step .

In Step the results of the query from Step are evaluated using one or more business expansion factors to create a rank order of the potential geographic areas to which the business may expand. In one embodiment of the invention using the business expansion factors the results of the query are sorted into a rank order of the potential geographic areas where the potential geographic areas with similar business and demographic characteristics have the higher rankings relative to other potential geographic areas which do not have the same characteristics. In one embodiment of the invention the potential geographic areas with the higher rankings have similar business and demographic characteristics to the business and these potential geographic areas should be considered for business expansion by the business owner.

The business expansion factors may initially be set by default and or they may be modified or defined by the user. Using the business expansion factors a determination is made regarding the potential geographic areas that are similar to the geographic area where the business is located. The business expansion factors include but are not limited to overall population population within the range of ages for the typical customer of the business the number of businesses of the specific kind owned by the owner that are located in the potential geographic area median income and per capita income.

In comparing the value of a business expansion factor in the geographic area where the business is located with the value of the business expansion factor in another geographic area the higher the correlation between the areas the higher the rank in the rank order for the geographic area. As an example if the median income of the geographic area in which the business of the owner is located is 75 000 and if the median income of a potential geographic area is 75 000 then the potential geographic area receives a high ranking for this business expansion factor. As a further example if there are already a large number of businesses of the type owned by the owner in a potential geographic area showing that the market may be saturated then the potential geographic area receives a lower ranking for this business expansion factor than another potential geographic area that has no businesses of this type which may indicate that there is likely a strong demand for this type of business.

The rating of the potential geographic areas may be based on a weighted average mathematical calculation or some other mechanism for rank ordering potential geographic areas based on one or more business expansion factors.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the rank order of potential geographic areas is determined by a weighted average mathematical calculation of the business expansion factors and the correlation to the value of the business expansion factors of the business. The weighted average score for a single business expansion factor for a potential geographic area is the scope defined below multiplied by the measure defined below multiplied by the weighting. The sum of the weighted average scores for all business expansion factors for a potential geographic area generates the weighted average score for that potential geographic area.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the scope in the weighted average mathematical calculation is one or more boundaries for a business expansion factor that limits the potential geographic areas that are returned in response to a query. The scope of each of the business expansion factors may be set by default or the user may set the scope of each business expansion factor. In addition the user may elect not to set a scope for a business expansion factor. As an example when considering the population of potential geographic areas in comparison to the geographic area where the business is located the default scope may be to only consider potential geographic areas that have a population that are within ten percent of the population of the geographic area where the business is located. Alternatively the user may set the scope of the population such that only potential geographic areas that have a population within 10 000 of the population of the geographic area where the business is located may be considered. The lower and upper bounds for the scope do not need to be symmetrical. For example the scope for population may be 5 percent to 10 percent. Alternatively the scope for population may be only an upper limit of 100 000 with no lower limit.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the measure in the weighted average mathematical calculation is a value assigned to a business expansion factor which depends on the value of the business expansion factor in a potential geographic area relative to the value of the business expansion factor in the geographic area in which the business is located. The measure of the business expansion factors in terms of the weighted average may be set by default or the user may define the measure of each business expansion factor. For example when considering the per capita income of a geographic area the default measure may be i to assign a value of 5 if the per capita income of a geographic area is greater than 100 000 ii to assign a value of 4 if the per capita income of a geographic area is between 90 000 and 100 000 iii to assign a value of 3 if the per capita income of a geographic area is between 75 000 and 90 000 iv to assign a value of 2 if the per capita income of a geographic area is between 50 000 and 75 000 v to assign a value of 1 if the per capita income of a geographic area is between 30 000 and 50 000 and vi to assign a value of zero if the per capita income of a geographic area is less than 30 000. Alternatively the user may set the measure of per capita income to be i to assign a value of 3 if the per capita income of a geographic area is greater than 85 000 ii to assign a value of 2 if the per capita income of a geographic area is between 60 000 and 85 000 iii to assign a value of 1 if the per capita income of a geographic area is between 40 000 and 60 000 and iv to assign a value of zero if the per capita income of a geographic area is less than 40 000. The lower and upper bounds for the measure do not need to be symmetrical. For example the measure for per capita income may be 5 percent to 10 percent. Alternatively the measure for per capita income may be only a lower limit of 45 000 with no upper limit.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the weighting in the weighted average mathematical calculation is a measure of importance of a business expansion factor. The weighting of the business expansion factors in terms of the weighted average may be set by default or the user may define the weighting of each business expansion factor. In one embodiment of the invention the sum of the weighting for all of the business expansion factors equals 100 percent. For example when considering the number of businesses of the same specific type in the potential geographic area as the business being considered for expansion the default weighting for this factor may be 35 percent. Alternatively the user may set the weighting for this factor at 60 percent indicating that the owner places a high level of importance on this business expansion factor relative to the other business expansion factors. It is possible that the user may set the weighting for one or more business expansion factors to 0 percent if she feels that those business expansion factors have no impact on determining the potential geographic areas to expand her business.

Consider the following example in which the user determines that only three business expansion factors are used to create the rank order of potential geographic areas. The three business expansion factors are population median income and the number of businesses of the same specific type in the potential geographic area as the business being considered for expansion. In one embodiment of the invention to arrive at only these three business expansion factors the user sets the weighting of all other business expansion factors such as per capita income and population within the range of ages for the typical customer of the business to zero. Further in this example the business is located in a geographic area with a population of 40 000 and a median income of 75 000.

In further explanation of the example of the weighted average mathematical calculation for the population the user defines the scope as 10 000 of the population of the geographic area in which her business is located and the user defines the weighting as 35 percent. The user defines the measure as 5 if the population of the potential geographic area is 2 500 of the population of the geographic area in which her business is located 3 if the population of the potential geographic area is between 2 501 and 5 000 of the population of the geographic area in which her business is located and 1 if the population of the potential geographic area is between 5 001 and the scope of the population of the geographic area in which her business is located.

In further explanation of the example of the weighted average mathematical calculation for the median income the user defines the scope as 10 percent of the median income of the geographic area in which her business is located and the user defines the weighting as 25 percent. The user defines the measure as 5 if the median income of the potential geographic area is 2 percent of the median income of the geographic area in which her business is located 4 if the median income of the potential geographic area is between 2 percent and 4 percent of the median income of the geographic area in which her business is located 3 if the median income of the potential geographic area is between 4 percent and 6 percent of the median income of the geographic area in which her business is located 2 if the median income of the potential geographic area is between 6 percent and 8 percent of the median income of the geographic area in which her business is located and 1 if the median income of the potential geographic area is between 8 percent and the scope of the median income of the geographic area in which her business is located.

In further explanation of the example of the weighted average mathematical calculation for the number of businesses of the same specific type in the potential geographic area as the business being considered for expansion the user elects not to set a scope therefore the default is set to 1 and the user defines the weighting as 40 percent The user defines the measure as 10 if the number of businesses of the same specific type in the potential geographic area as the business being considered for expansion is zero 5 if the number of businesses of the same specific type in the potential geographic area as the business being considered for expansion is 1 or 2 and zero if the number of businesses of the same specific type in the potential geographic area as the business being considered for expansion is 3 or more.

In further explanation of the example of the weighted average mathematical calculation after the information source s send data in response to a query the results of the query include 3 potential geographic areas. The first potential geographic area has a population of 45 000 a median income of 65 000 and no other businesses of the same specific type. The second potential geographic area has a population of 30 000 a median income of 80 000 and 2 other businesses of the same specific type. The third potential geographic area has a population of 41 000 a median income of 74 000 and three other businesses of the same specific type. As a result the first potential geographic area has a weighted average mathematical calculation of 4.7625 the second potential geographic area has a weighted average mathematical calculation of 3.00 and the third potential geographic area has a weighted average mathematical calculation of 2.85. As a result the first potential geographic area ranks highest in the rank order the third potential geographic area ranks second in the rank order and the second potential geographic area ranks last in the rank order.

A person of ordinary skill in the art realizes that there are other ways to establish a rank order of potential geographic areas using the business expansion factors. The above method and example are not meant to limit the scope of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the results of the query from Step are evaluated using the data returned by the business information source s and the demographic information source s to generate a forecast of one or more business expansion factors for potential geographic areas at some time in the future as the user may define in Step .

Continuing with in Step the results of the query are presented to the user. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user determines the format in which to view the output regardless of whether electronic or hard copy . Examples of such output formats are a map a spreadsheet a graph any other type of format for presented results or any combination thereof. In one embodiment of the invention a map may be output in different formats including using a virtual map where the distance from a potential geographic area to the city that the business is located is directly proportionate to the rank order of that potential geographic area under the set of business expansion factors from the query. In other words the potential geographic area that ranks highest in the query is the shortest distance on the map in terms of virtual miles to the city where the business is located.

In one or more embodiments the results of the query may be presented to the user in a multi dimensional display where each dimension is represented by a business expansion factor. In further embodiments of the invention the multi dimensional display may be integrated with a map. An example of a map format using the concept of virtual miles and of the multi dimensional display is described in respectively.

In Step the user determines whether she wants to save the query. If the query is to be saved the process proceeds to Step where the query is stored as a record e.g. inquiry record s in a repository e.g. the inquiry storage center . Once the query is stored the process proceeds to Step . Alternatively the process proceeds to Step without saving the query.

In Step the user determines whether she wants to save the results of the query. If the results of the query are to be saved then the process proceeds to Step where the results of the query are stored to a device chosen by the user. The results of the query may be stored in a repository e.g. the inquiry storage center . An example of a screenshot that is presented to the user is shown in described below . Once the results of the query are saved the process proceeds to Step . If the results of the query are not to be saved then the process proceeds to Step .

In Step the user determines whether she wants to submit another query. If the user wants to submit another query then the process proceeds to Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the fields of the data entry template retain the information that the user entered from the query that was submitted in Step . If the user does not want to submit another query then the process proceeds to Step where the session ends.

In one or more embodiments of the invention shows an example presentation of a system inquiry template of . The example presentation includes a template with the following i the state that the business is located field ii the city that the business is located field iii the age range of the typical customer field iv the general type of business field v the specific type of business field vi free form entry for specific type of business field vii annual gross revenue of the business field viii country for expansion field ix directions on how to select more than one country for expansion and a series of response options from which the user chooses how to proceed. This example is for explanatory purposes only and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Other messages and response options may be shown both for the circumstance of this example as well as for other events. In addition there may be more or fewer parts to the message or series of response options and in different order than what is shown in this example. There may also be multiple messages or response options to convey what this example shows.

The state that the business is located field is configured to store the state province territory or other division of land in a country in which the business is located. The state province territory or other division of land in a country may be for the United States or for any other country. In this case the business is located in North Carolina and the state is chosen from a drop down menu. The city that the business is located field is configured to store the city in which the business is located. The choices in this field may be based on the response of the user in the state that the business is located field allowing only cities that exist in that state to appear as options for the user. In this case the business is located in the city of Wilmington and the city is chosen from a drop down menu.

The age range of the typical customer field is configured to store the age range of the typical customer of the business and the user selects the lower and upper end of the range. In this case the age of the typical customer for this business ranges from 19 to 29 and the each age in the range is chosen from an electronic drop down list. The general type of business field is configured to store whether the business deals in goods or services. The options may be presented in a number of formats such as radio buttons or check boxes. In this case the business deals in goods and a check box is used to make the selection.

The specific type of business field is configured to store the type of goods or services in which the business deals. This is an example of how the system inquiry template of recognizes the entry of a previous field to change the question for a later field. Specifically because the user selected goods in the general type of business field the question in the specific type of business field is presented in terms of goods not in terms of services. In this example the business deals in baby supplies.

The free form entry for specific type of business field is configured to allow the user to enter the specific type of goods or services in which her business deals and store the information that is entered. This field may be necessary if the business deals in goods or services that are not common or if the user is unable to find a selection provided for this field. In this example the user found baby supplies in the specific type of business field and so she did not need to manually enter the type of goods in which her business deals in the free form entry for specific type of business field .

The annual gross revenue of the business field is configured to store an appropriate range to reflect the annual gross revenue of the business. In this case the annual gross revenue of the business falls between 1 000 000 and 5 000 000 and the range of gross revenues is chosen from a drop down menu. The country for expansion field is configured to store the country that the user would like to consider for expanding her business. The user may select only one country as in this example where the user chose the United States or a multiple of countries. All countries in the world may be selected by the user. In one embodiment of the invention if the user wants to select more than one country the directions on how to select more than one country for expansion instructs the user that she may do so by pressing the Ctrl key on her keyboard as she selects each country from the list in the country for expansion field .

The series of response options is configured to allow the user to select how to proceed from the system inquiry template of . This series of response options may be presented to the user in a variety of forms. In this case the series of response options are in the form of pushbuttons with the specific labels Submit Query Clear Template and Cancel . If the user selects the Submit Query button the information in the fields of the system inquiry template of are extracted and a query queries is generated and submitted. If the user selects the Clear Template button the fields in the system inquiry template of are cleared and the user may be required to fill in all of the fields again before being able to submit a query. If the user selects the Cancel button she exits without submitting a query. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that mechanisms other than pushbuttons may be used to allow the user to enter his selection and that the wording of the response options may vary.

In one or more embodiments of the invention shows an example presentation of a system inquiry template of . The example presentation includes a template with the following i the state that the business is located field ii the city that the business is located field iii the age range of the typical customer field iv the general type of business field v the specific type of business field vi free form entry for specific type of business field vii annual gross revenue of the business field viii country for expansion field ix directions on how to select more than one country for expansion and a series of response options from which the user chooses how to proceed. This example is for explanatory purposes only and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Other messages and response options may be shown both for the circumstance of this example as well as for other events. In addition there may be more or fewer parts to the message or series of response options and in different order than what is shown in this example. There may also be multiple messages or response options to convey what this example shows.

The state that the business is located field is configured to store the state province territory or other division of land in a country in which the business is located. The state province territory or other division of land in a country may be for the United States or for any other country. In this case the business is located in North Carolina and the state is chosen from an electronic drop down list. The city that the business is located field is configured to store the city in which the business is located. The choices in this field may be based on the response of the user in the state that the business is located field allowing only cities that exist in that state to appear as options for the user. In this case the business is located in the city of Wilmington and the city is chosen from a drop down menu.

The age range of the typical customer field is configured to store the age range of the typical customer of the business and the user selects the lower and upper end of the range. In this case the age of the typical customer for this business ranges from 35 to 45 and the each age in the range is chosen from an electronic drop down list. The general type of business field is configured to store whether the business deals in goods or services. The options may be presented in a number of formats such as radio buttons or check boxes. In this case the business deals in goods and a check box is used to make the selection.

The specific type of business field is configured to store the type of goods or services in which the business deals. This is an example of how the system inquiry template of recognizes the entry of a previous field to change the question for a later field. In this example because the user selected services in the general type of business field the question in the specific type of business field is presented in terms of services not in terms of goods. In this example the business deals in environmental engineering consulting.

The free form entry for specific type of business field is configured to allow the user to enter the specific type of goods or services in which her business deals and store the information that is entered. This field may be necessary if the business deals in goods or services that are not common or if the user is unable to find a selection provided for this field. In this example the user found Consulting Environmental Engineering in the specific type of business field and so she did not need to manually enter the type of services in which her business deals in the free form entry for specific type of business field .

The annual gross revenue of the business field is configured to store an appropriate range to reflect the annual gross revenue of the business. In this case the annual gross revenue of the business falls between 10 000 000 and 15 000 000 and the range of gross revenues is chosen from an electronic drop down list. The country for expansion field is configured to store the country that the user would like to consider for expanding her business. The user may select only one country as in this example where the user chose the United States or a multiple of countries. All countries in the world may be selected by the user. In one embodiment of the invention if the user wants to select more than one country the directions on how to choose more than one country for expansion instructs the user that she may do so by pressing the Ctrl key on her keyboard as she selects each country from the list in the country for expansion field .

The series of response options is configured to allow the user to choose how to proceed from the system inquiry template of and stores the choice of the user. This series of response options may be presented to the user in a variety of forms. In this case the series of response options are in the form of pushbuttons and they include the specific labels Submit Query Clear Template and Cancel . If the user selects the Submit Query button the information in the fields of the system inquiry template of are extracted and a query is submitted. If the user selects the Clear Template button the fields in the system inquiry template of clear and the user may be required to fill in all of the fields again before being able to submit a query. If the user selects the Cancel button she exits without submitting a query. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that mechanisms other than pushbuttons may be used to allow the user to enter his selection and that the wording of the response options may vary.

The announcement message informs the user that the results of the query are processed and ready to be viewed by the user. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other words may be used to indicate that the query is complete and that other enhancements such as flashing the warning message and adding sound may be included.

The results message informs the user how many cities were found to rank high based on the information in the system inquiry template of . A high ranking for a city is achieved by having a high relative correlation which may be defined by default in the system and or specified by the user to the business and demographic characteristics of the business in its current location. The results message may also include information from the system inquiry template of . In this example the results message repeats that the business sells baby supplies is located in Wilmington N.C. and the age range of the typical customer is 19 29.

The inquiry message informs the user of a need to determine how she would like to proceed. The following description describes various options for proceeding. The spreadsheet option presents the results of the query in a spreadsheet. In this example this option is selected by clicking the appropriate pushbutton. The map option presents the results of the query on a map by clicking the appropriate pushbutton. As previously explained and as described in the map may be in a format where it shows geographic areas in terms of virtual miles from the city where the business is located. The graph option presents the results from the query on a graph by clicking the appropriate pushbutton. A person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there may be other forms of output in which the data is presented to the user and also that there are other ways that the user may select these forms of output.

The save the results of the query option allow the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to save the results of the query. Saving the results of the query is different than saving the query itself in a few respects the principal respect being that because information sources are periodically updated with recent data the results of the same query may change over time. An example of the message presented to the user after saving the results of a query is described in .

The save query and begin new query option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to save the current query and then begin an entirely new query. Selecting this option saves the information in the system inquiry template of into a record which is stored in a repository e.g. inquiry storage center of . In addition this option presents the system inquiry template of for the user where the fields of the system inquiry template of may be blank or they may retain the information from the query that was previously submitted.

Continuing with the edit query without saving option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to edit the current query without saving it. Selecting this option presents the system inquiry template of to the user and all of the fields of the system inquiry template of are populated with the information that the user entered for the previous query. The user may then create a different query by changing one or more fields in the system inquiry template of .

Continuing with the save query then edit option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to save the current query and then edit it. Selecting this option saves the information in the system inquiry template of into a record which is stored in a repository e.g. the inquiry storage center . In addition this option presents the system inquiry template of for the user where the fields of the system inquiry template of retain the information from the query that was previously submitted. The user may then create a different query by changing one or more fields in the system inquiry template of .

Continuing with the save query and exit option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to save the current query and then exit. Selecting this option saves the information in the system inquiry template of into a record which is stored in a repository e.g. the inquiry storage center . In addition once the record is created and saved the session ends. The exit without saving query option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to exit without saving the query.

In the user selects to present the results of the query on the map . The map may be shown in a number of varieties and covering a number of geographic areas. One such variety is a virtual map where the distance from a potential geographic area to the city that the business is located is directly proportionate to the rank order of that potential geographic area under the set of business expansion factors from the query. In other words the potential geographic area that ranks highest in the query is the shortest distance on the map in terms of virtual miles to the city where the business is located. The settings for the virtual map may be defined by default or may be defined by the user. For example the default settings may dictate that any geographic area with a weighted average score of 95 or higher be shown on the virtual map as being 0.5 miles from the geographic location of the business any geographic area with a weighted average score between 90 inclusive and 95 be shown on the virtual map as being 1.0 mile from the geographic location of the business any geographic area with a weighted average score between 85 inclusive and 90 be shown on the virtual map as being 1.5 miles from the geographic location of the business and so on.

Continuing with alternatively the user may change the settings of the virtual map such that the geographic areas that finished 1 3 in the rank order be shown on the virtual map as being 1.0 mile from the geographic location of the business the geographic areas that finished 4 6 in the rank order be shown on the virtual map as being 2.0 miles from the geographic location of the business and so on. In this example the map is a virtual map and shows that St. Louis Park Minn. and Middleton Conn. are the two geographic locations in the United States that the user whose business is located in Wilmington N.C. should consider expanding her business based on the criteria entered by the user. In addition the city of Momeun in the southern part of the United Kingdom would be a geographic location outside the United States for the user to expand her business based on the criteria entered by the user. These geographic locations are within 2 virtual miles of Wilmington N.C.

In the user selects to present the results of the query on a multi dimensional display . In one or more embodiments of the invention each dimension of the multi dimensional display may be represented by a business expansion factor where each business expansion factor may be represented on an axis of a Cartesian coordinate plane. In further embodiments of the invention the multi dimensional display may be integrated with a map. In one or more embodiments a geographic location may be represented by a point a vector some other type of designation or any combination thereof. Further the size of the point vector or other type of designation on the multi dimensional display representing a geographic location may be directly or inversely proportional to one of the business expansion factors. For example the size of the point may be inversely proportional to the number of existing businesses of the same type. In one or more embodiments of the invention different colors may be used to designate different geographic locations business expansion factors some other characteristic on the graph or any combination thereof.

Continuing with in this example the display includes a two dimensional coordinate system a map and a legend . The two dimensional coordinate system includes a vertical axis representing median income and a horizontal axis representing population density. The three results shown on the display are each depicted as a cone e.g. originating at a point on the map corresponding to a geographic location and ending in a circle. The size of the circle in this case is inversely proportional to the number of existing businesses of the same type in the geographic location. The legend in this example displays that geographic location A is the current location of the business geographic location B is Fresno Calif. and geographic location C is Raleigh N.C. In one or more embodiments of the invention the legend may include a description of the significance of the size of each circle. In one or more embodiments of the invention the vertical axis and the horizontal axis may each include one of a number of different types of scales including but not limited to a range of percentages a range of numbers and a range of orders of magnitude.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that while shows both a map and a two dimensional coordinate system the results may be displayed using only the two dimensional coordinate system .

The announcement message notifies the user that the results of the query have been saved. The inquiry message prompts the user to determine what she wants to do next. In this example the user has four options from which to choose. The edit this query option gives the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton the ability to edit the query whose results are previously saved. Selecting this option presents the system inquiry template of to the user and all of the fields of the system inquiry template of are populated with the information that the user entered for the previous query. The user may then create a different query by changing one or more fields in the system inquiry template of .

Continuing with the begin a new query option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to start a new query. This option presents the system inquiry template of for the user where the fields of the system inquiry template of may be blank or may retain the information from a previously submitted query.

Continuing with the open previous record option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to select a record from a repository and open that record. The exit option allows the user by clicking the appropriate pushbutton to exit.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer system may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. the system inquiry template the inquiry record s the inquiry storage center etc. may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments may be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

