---

title: Piezoelectric and piezoresistive cantilever sensors
abstract: An apparatus for sensing a target substance includes a substrate, an elongated electroactive cantilever, a functional layer and an electrical sensor. The elongated electroactive cantilever includes a first surface and an opposite second surface. The elongated electroactive cantilever includes an electroactive member extending outwardly from the substrate. The functional layer is applied to the first surface and includes a material that reacts with the target substance so that when the functional layer is in the presence of the target substance, the functional layer will cause a change in an electrical property of the electroactive cantilever. The electrical sensor is coupled to the electroactive cantilever and is configured to sense the electrical property of the electroactive cantilever.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08141427&OS=08141427&RS=08141427
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08141427
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080604
---
This invention was made with support from the U.S. government under grant number GIT Proj. No. E18 T52 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to sensor systems and more specifically to a nanoscale substance sensor.

Substance sensors are used in a wide variety of applications including medical diagnostics contraband detection chemical process metrology hazardous substance detection and any process where the detection or measurement of a substance is necessary. Many different bulk substance detection and measuring tests are well known to those of skill in the chemical and biomedical arts. Such tests usually involve reaction of the target substance with a test material to induce a change is a physical property of the test material. For example litmus paper is a well known test material for detecting the presence of acids.

In some applications the target substance is present in extremely low concentrations and is therefore hard to detect using conventional bulk chemical testing systems. For example detecting contraband e.g. explosives and illegal narcotics can be difficult in real time using conventional chemical testing. Detection systems for these types of substances often fail to detect a substance when it is present below a certain concentration even though a dangerous amount may be present.

Certain animals such as dogs can be trained to detect a target substance by smelling it in the air. However animals often give false positive results and false negative results. They also sometimes cannot detect a target substance when it is masked by another substance. Also the training and maintenance of such animals is quite costly.

Recently functionalized cantilever sensors have been developed to detect target substances. Such sensors employ a cantilever that has been functionalized on one side with a material that reacts to a target substance. When the material is exposed to the target substance in sufficient quantity the material will induce surface stress on the cantilever thereby causing it to deform. The deformation may be detected in one of several manners including using an optical displacement sensor. Such cantilevers typically have a width in the tens of micrometers. While micro scale cantilevers can provide real time data their micro scale width limits their sensitivity.

Currently most cantilever sensors are made with micro electro mechanical systems MEMS mask and etching processes. A typical size of the cantilever is approximately tens of micrometers in width. This relatively large size of MEMS cantilevers limits the sensitivity of these sensors because the ratio of functionalized area to displacement is limited. Reducing the size of the cantilever would improve sensitivity but existing displacement sensing systems become increasingly imprecise as the cantilever size is reduced.

Therefore there is a need for a sensor system that can detect extremely low concentrations of target substances in real time with a high level of precision.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is an apparatus for sensing a target substance that includes a substrate an elongated electroactive cantilever a functional layer and an electrical sensor. The elongated electroactive cantilever includes a first surface and an opposite second surface. The elongated electroactive cantilever includes an electroactive member extending outwardly from the substrate. The functional layer is applied to the first surface and includes a material that reacts with the target substance so that when the functional layer is in the presence of the target substance the functional layer will cause a change in an electrical property of the electroactive cantilever. The electrical sensor is coupled to the electroactive cantilever and is configured to sense the electrical property of the electroactive cantilever.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making a sensor for sensing a target substance in which an elongated electroactive cantilever is created. A selected surface of the elongated electroactive cantilever is functionalized with a functional material that reacts with the target substance so that when the functional material is in the presence of the target substance the functional material will cause a change in an electrical property of the electroactive cantilever. The electrical sensor is coupled to the electroactive cantilever and is configured to sense the change in the electrical property of the electroactive cantilever.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of sensing a presence of a target substance in an environment. An electroactive cantilever that has been functionalized with a material that causes a change in an electrical property of the electroactive cantilever when the material interacts with the target substance is exposed to the environment. The electrical property of the electroactive cantilever is sensed.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. Elongated piezoelectric structure includes wires and ribbons such as nanowires and nano ribbons.

One representative embodiment of a target substance sensor includes a nano scale electroactive cantilever that is functionalized with a material that reacts with the target substance. When the functionalized cantilever is exposed to an environment containing the target substance molecules of the target substance will react with the functionalized layer e.g. by being absorbed by the functionalized layer thereby creating a surface energy differential between the functionalized side of the cantilever and the opposite side of the cantilever. This may result in bending of the cantilever thereby changing an electrical property of the cantilever. This change in electrical properties of the cantilever may be measured thereby detecting the presence of the target substance in the environment.

By using nanoscale cantilever structures which employ for example ZnO nano ribbons or carbon nanotubes as electroactive members in which displacement of the cantilevers may be readily detected using existing electrical detection devices the devices disclosed herein exhibit extremely high sensitivity and selectivity. The large surface to volume ratio of ZnO nano ribbons and carbon nanotubes greatly enhances the sensitivity of the cantilever sensors and the significant piezoelectricity of ZnO nano ribbons and piezo resistivity of carbon nanotubes provide a precise and stable signal for the detection system.

As shown in one embodiment of a sensor for detecting a target substance includes a substrate and an elongated electroactive cantilever that includes a first surface and an opposite second surface . The elongated electroactive cantilever includes an electroactive member such as a piezoelectric ZnO nanobelt that extends outwardly from the substrate . Other materials that could be used to make the electroactive member include wurtzite structured II VI compounds semiconductors and piezoelectric oxides. 

A functional layer that includes a material that reacts with the target substance is applied to the first surface . The material of the functional layer would be a material that reacts with or absorbs the target substance. For example a hydrophilic polymer could be used as the material if the target substance is water vapor. When the functional layer is in the presence of the target substance the functional layer causes a change in an electrical property of the electroactive cantilever . This change in electrical property can be a result of the functional layer expanding as a result of molecules of the target substance reacting with the functional layer .

The piezoelectric nanobelt exhibits an electrical potential difference between the first surface and the second surface when the electroactive cantilever is deformed as a result of the target substance interacting with the functional layer . A first conductive member is affixed to a first end of the electroactive member between the first end and the substrate and a second conductive member is disposed adjacent the first end opposite from the first conductive member .

A voltage sensor is configured to sense a voltage potential difference between the first conductive member and the second conductive member . Thus when molecules of the target substance interact with the functional layer as shown in the functional layer expands and the piezoelectric cantilever bends thereby creating a potential difference between the first conductive member and the second conductive member . The magnitude of this potential difference which is sensed by the voltage sensor thereby indicating the concentration of the target substance in the environment to which the sensor is exposed.

As shown in one embodiment employs an electroactive member applied to a cantilever that has been treated with a functional layer . In one representative example the electroactive member includes a carbon nanotube which exhibits piezo resistive properties. Other piezo active materials may also be used for example one dimensional nanowires that exhibit a piezo resistive effect nano ribbons that exhibit a piezo resistive effect etc. In this embodiment the electrical conductivity of the electroactive member changes as the cantilever bends in response to reaction between the functional layer and the target substance.

To measure the change in conductivity a first contact is electrically coupled to a first end of the electroactive member and a second contact is electrically coupled to a second end of the electroactive member . A conductivity sensor senses the conductivity of the electroactive member as measured between the first contact and the second contact . The conductivity sensor can include a voltage source and a current sensor .

The sensors described above may be made by creating an elongated electroactive cantilever which may be an elongated piezoelectric structure such as a ZnO nanowire or nano ribbon and then functionalizing a selected surface of the elongated electroactive cantilever with a functional material that reacts with the target substance. Methods of making zinc oxide nano ribbons are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 095 see e.g. col. 4 1.40 col. 5 1.6 and methods of making directional nano ribbons are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 220 310 see e.g. col. 5 1.31 col. 6 1.19 the entirety of both of which is incorporated herein by reference. An electrical sensor is then coupled to the electroactive cantilever. The electrical contacts are then applied to the electroactive cantilever and a sensor is then coupled to the electrical contacts. The carbon nanotube embodiment may be made by manipulating a carbon nanotube onto the cantilever using an atomic force microscope.

One embodiment is a cantilever sensor that uses the piezoelectric effect of ZnO nano ribbons also referred to as nanobelts . By combination of e beam lithography and sputtering or other functionalization techniques ZnO nano ribbons can be coated with a functional layer on selected area. The functionalized ZnO nano ribbon is then incorporated into a detection system with the help of a nano manipulation tool in a focused ion beam system. The functionalized layer on the ZnO nano ribbon will selectively bind with specific chemicals or species i.e. the target substances when being exposed to an environment. These binding ligands will change the surface stress due to changes in Gibbs free energy associated with adsorption processes. Consequently the ZnO nanobelt cantilever is bended with asymmetric in surface stresses. Due to the large surface to volume ratio this deformation can be substantial compared to the MEMS cantilevers even in a dilute bio species environment. Also due to the lack of central symmetry in wurtzite structures the deflection of ZnO nanobelt with one side fixed causes one side surface to be stretched and the opposite side surface to be compressed. As a result of piezoelectric property a positive potential V V Z Zis the bending displacement the ZnO and a negative potential V are produced in the stretched and compressed side surfaces respectively. This bias voltage due to piezoelectric effect on the deformed ZnO nanobelt provides a relatively convenient and precise way to measure the adsorbed chemical and biological species identity and qualities. By measuring the voltage drop across the two side surfaces as a result of piezoelectric discharge the bending of the cantilever can be quantified.

In the carbon nanotube embodiment the conductance of a carbon nanotube changes dramatically during bending due to the formation of defects and changes in band gap and conduction channels. By incorporating a carbon nanotube onto a common MEMS cantilever sensor conductance changes of the carbon nanotube can be measured to monitor the bending of the cantilever.

This embodiment may be made by placing a carbon nanotube on a single side of coated cantilever along the longitudinal direction. The two electrical contacts may be fabricated through e beam lithography over both ends of the carbon nanotube. When the functionalized cantilever binds with biological species on the functionalized layer it is bended due to the surface stress change causing bending of the carbon nanotube. Information about the absorbed species may then be acquired by measuring the conductance change due to the bending.

In one experimental embodiment a cantilever humidity sensor was demonstrated. The device employed a single side coated ZnO nano ribbon functionalized with multiple layers of polymers. Upon exposure to humidity the polymers swelled and produced an asymmetric strain across the ZnO nano ribbon. In return the deformation of ZnO nano ribbon produced a piezoelectric field across the nano ribbon which served as the gate for controlling the flow of current along the nano ribbon in a transistor.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

