---

title: Transferring data from an application to a destination
abstract: Illustrative embodiments disclose sending content from a first application at a first location to a second application at a second remote location. In response to a user input indicating a selection of content for transfer to the second application, the selection of the content is copied to form copied content. The copied content is then automatically sent to the second application at the remote second location without requiring additional user manipulation of the copy content. Additionally, the destination may be another user. In this case, the second application is employed to automatically transfer the copied content to that second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234663&OS=08234663&RS=08234663
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08234663
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 687 237 filed Oct. 16 2003 status allowed.

The present invention relates generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and apparatus for processing data. Still more particularly the present invention relates to a method apparatus and computer instructions for transferring data from an application to a destination.

The use of data processing systems is pervasive in the workplace. Users generate documents spreadsheets and visual presentations on a daily basis. Further users communicate with each other through email and instant messages over networks such as wide area networks and the Internet. This widespread use of computers and the interconnectivity provided through networks allows for different users to collaborate or work with each other in different locations. Collaborating users may be as close as in an office down the hall or on another floor or as far away as in another city or country. Regardless of the distance users are able to communicate with each other and collaborate on different projects.

Often times a user might find a need for sending a portion of a document to another user for review or use by the remote user. For example two people may work on a document and one individual may decide that the other should inspect a particular paragraph that is being drafted. In the current process the user selects and copies the text for the paragraph. Thereafter the user opens an email client or similar application. The text is then pasted by the user into the application. The user then identities the recipient and sends the content to him her for inspection. Such a process is time consuming and requires many steps. In some cases this tedious process may result in less collaboration if a user does not feel that the need for another user to review a portion of a document or a spreadsheet is great enough to justify the effort required to send the content to another user for review.

Therefore it would be advantageous to have an improved method apparatus and computer instructions for sending data from one user to another user.

The present invention provides a method apparatus and computer instructions for sending content from a first application to a second application. In response to user input indicating a selection of content for transfer to the second application the selection of the content is copied to form copied content. The copied content is then automatically sent to the second application without requiring additional user manipulation of the copy content. Additionally the destination may be another user. In this case the second application is employed to automatically transfer the copied content to that second user.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to a pictorial representation of a data processing system in which the present invention may be implemented is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Computer is depicted which includes system unit video display terminal keyboard storage devices which may include floppy drives and other types of permanent and removable storage media and mouse . Additional input devices may be included with personal computer such as for example a joystick touchpad touch screen trackball microphone and the like.

Computer can be implemented using any suitable computer such as an IBM eServer computer or IntelliStation computer which are products of International Business Machines Corporation located in Armonk N.Y. Although the depicted representation shows a computer other embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in other types of data processing systems such as a network computer. Computer also preferably includes a graphical user interface GUI that may be implemented by means of systems software residing in computer readable media in operation within computer .

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as computer in in which code or instructions implementing the processes of the present invention may be located. Data processing system employs a peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port AGP and Industry Standard Architecture ISA may be used. Processor and main memory are connected to PCI local bus through PCI bridge . PCI bridge also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for processor .

Additional connections to PCI local bus may be made through direct component interconnection or through add in boards. In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter small computer system interface SCSI host bus adapter and expansion bus interface are connected to PCI local bus by direct component connection.

In contrast audio adapter graphics adapter and audio video adapter are connected to PCI local bus by add in boards inserted into expansion slots. Expansion bus interface provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter modem and additional memory . SCSI host bus adapter provides a connection for hard disk drive tape drive and CD ROM drive .

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Windows XP which is available from Microsoft Corporation. An object oriented programming system such as Java may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash read only memory ROM equivalent nonvolatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

For example data processing system if optionally configured as a network computer may not include SCSI host bus adapter hard disk drive tape drive and CD ROM . In that case the computer to be properly called a client computer includes some type of network communication interface such as LAN adapter modem or the like. As another example data processing system may be a stand alone system configured to be bootable without relying on some type of network communication interface whether or not data processing system comprises some type of network communication interface. As a further example data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which is configured with ROM and or flash ROM to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data.

The depicted example in and the above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example data processing system also may be a notebook computer or hand held computer in addition to taking the form of a PDA. Data processing system also may be a kiosk or a Web appliance.

The processes of the present invention are performed by processor using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory memory or in one or more peripheral devices .

The present invention provides an improved method apparatus and computer instructions for sending content from one application to another location or application. The mechanism of the present invention facilitates the process of identifying content and placing the content into another process. This other process may be for example another application or a complete throughput process such as saving a file to a file system. Sending the content to another application may include activating an email client placing the content into an email message and sending that message to the desired location or destination.

Turning next to a block diagram of components used in transferring data from an application to a destination is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. A user may decide to select content from application for transfer to a destination or target such as another application or a file. This application may be for example a word processor a spreadsheet program or a computer aided design drawing program. The user selects some portion of the content from application . This selected content is copied from application . The selected content may be for example an image text from a document a spreadsheet a portion of a spreadsheet or any content that may be selected and copied.

In the depicted examples the copy function is provided through operating system . The selected content forms data which is stored in a memory or buffer such as clip board or some other storage mechanism provided through operating system for copy and paste functions. This copy and paste function may be one such as the clip board function described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 801 693.

Thereafter the user through some selected user input such as a right click on a mouse or other pointing device may select to send data to another location. This location may be for example application or even a file such as file within the data processing system.

Application may take various forms such as an email program another word processing program or an instant messaging program. In the event that application is to be used as a transport mechanism to send the data to a remote location the mechanism of the present invention may initiate the execution of application Data is sent to application through an interface in application . This interface is typically an existing interface that allows for a transfer of content to the application. Alternatively a set of scripts may be used to manipulate application .

In these examples the reception of the user input selecting the destination for the data and the initiation of application is handled by data transfer process . In these examples data transfer process is implemented within operating system . In other instances data transfer process may be implemented as an application or even be part of application depending on the particular implementation. If data transfer process is implemented as an application the various functions within operating system may be accessed through an interface such as an application programming interface API . This interface is a language and message format used by an application to communicate with an operating system or some other controls program.

Further data transfer process may present a user with a list of addresses if application is an email or messaging program. Thereafter the activation of application and the sending of the content are performed without requiring the user to initiate execution of application and perform the normal steps needed to transmit an email message or a text message.

Turning now to a diagram illustrating a user interface presented for transferring content is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In this example window is an example of a window in a word processor and may be presented by an application such as application in . In this example text is the content selected by the user for transfer.

When a selected user input such as a right click on a mouse button is entered menu is presented to the user. As can be seen this menu provides for a transfer function as indicated by option . Option allows a user to send content to another application or location. Selection of option causes the presentation of sub menu .

As can be seen in this example sub menu defines different transfer functions that may be selected by the user. For example option is for an SMS text message option is for text in an email message option provides for sending the content to a file and option provides for sending the content in an instant message. In the case that the user selects option the user is presented with options for saving the content to a file.

In this example option has been selected which causes sub menu to be presented. Sub menu allows a user to select an address from an address book as indicated by option or manually enter an email address using option . After the user has selected or has input an email address the selected content is then automatically sent to the address using an email program without requiring the user to take any further steps.

Turning next to a flowchart of a process for transferring data is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The process illustrated in may be implemented in a data transfer process such as data transfer process in .

The process begins by receiving a user input to transfer content step . As described above this user input may be for example a right click on a mouse button or some other pointing device. Thereafter a transfer menu is displayed step . This menu is similar to menu in in which option provides for a transfer function.

Next a determination is made as to whether the user input has been received selecting the type of transfer step . This user input is for selecting a transfer type such as those presented in sub menu in . If a user input selecting the transfer type has been received the selected content is saved in the memory step . In these examples the memory is a clip board maintained by the operating system. Thereafter the data transfer of the content is initiated step with the process terminating thereafter.

With reference again to step if a user input selecting the transfer has not been received a determination is made as to whether the action has been canceled step . If the action has not been canceled the process returns to step . Otherwise the process terminates.

With reference next to a flowchart of a process for presenting a user interface is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. This user interface is an example of a user interface that may be presented through a data transfer process such as data transfer process in .

The process begins by displaying a menu step . In this example the menu is displayed in response to a user input indicating that a transfer of content is desired. Thereafter the process waits for a user input selecting the transfer type step . A determination is made as to whether the user input is to send the content through email step . If the user input is to use email the user is prompted for an email address step . This prompt may be for the user to select an email address from an address book or to manually enter the email address. Thereafter the user input is received step with the process terminating thereafter.

With reference again to step if the input is not for a transfer using email a determination is made as to whether the input is for transferring the content using an instant message step . If the input is for transferring the content through an instant message the user is prompted for a person or buddy step with the process then proceeding to step as described above.

With reference again to step if the user input does not select a transfer type as being an instant message the user is prompted for a destination location and file name step with the process then terminating thereafter.

Thus the present invention provides an improved method apparatus and computer instructions for transferring content. The mechanism of the present invention takes advantage of the currently available copy and paste functions as well as buffering storage facilities provided for copied content such as a clip board. A data transfer process is provided to allow a user to easily and quickly transfer data to another application or location.

In the illustrative examples the content may be transferred to another location via email text message or instant message or directly to a separate file. Of course other mechanisms may be used depending on the particular implementation. In this manner the mechanism of the present invention manages a tedious process of stripping out or selecting content and placing that content into another process such as another application or a file system.

It is important to note that while the present invention has been described in the context of a fully functioning data processing system those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the processes of the present invention are capable of being distributed in the form of a computer readable medium of instructions and a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media actually used to carry out the distribution. Examples of computer readable media include recordable type media such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a RAM CD ROMs DVD ROMs and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links wired or wireless communications links using transmission forms such as for example radio frequency and light wave transmissions. The computer readable media may take the form of coded formats that are decoded for actual use in a particular data processing system.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

