---

title: Accelerometer sensitive soft input panel
abstract: A virtual keyboard may be created on the display screen or soft input panel of a portable electronic device. The virtual keyboard may be created such that it is larger than the screen size of the portable electronic device. The virtual keyboard may be moved or slid across the screen to gain access to the keys thereon. Movement of the portable electronic device may be used to cause a corresponding movement of the virtual keyboard. The movement of the portable electronic device may be measured through the use of accelerometer data. The virtual keyboard may be configured by the user of the portable electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08248371&OS=08248371&RS=08248371
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08248371
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
Many people may own a portable electronic device. These portable electronic devices may include mobile phones e.g. cellular or cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs . Portable electronic devices may have increasing capability beyond voice communications. Many portable electronic devices may incorporate an input device such as a keyboard or touch screen to input characters into the portable electronic device.

Portable electronic devices may have a hard input panel such as a keyboard having keys with letters numbers and symbols upon them. Such a keyboard may be modeled on a conventional keyboard such as a typewriter keyboard or computer keyboard. The keyboard may be smaller in size than such a conventional keyboard. The keys may have multiple letters numbers or symbols upon them to maximize efficiency for the smaller size. The keys may be small in size such as being smaller than a conventional keyboard. In some cases the keys may be smaller than a typical adult fingertip. In such embodiments smaller key size may lead to difficulty in entering information such as hitting of incorrect keys.

Portable electronic devices may have a soft input panel where the input is entered through the display or screen of the portable electronic device such as a touch screen. The input to the portable electronic device may be completed using a finger or an object such as a stylus. Some portable electronic devices allow input only using a particular method depending on the portable electronic device configuration. For example some portable electronic devices require that a finger be used with the soft input panel a stylus may not work to perform entry due to the configuration of the input panel. The soft input panel may display a virtual keyboard that is a replica of a conventional computer keyboard such as a QWERTY type keyboard as may be commonly used. The virtual keyboard may be reduced in size in comparison with a conventional computer keyboard to fit onto the screen of the portable electronic device. As a result of being reduced in size the keys displayed on the screen may be small in size such as being smaller than a standard key on a conventional computer keyboard. The size may be such that the key is smaller than a typical adult fingertip.

Increasingly portable electronic devices may incorporate an accelerometer. The accelerometer may be used by applications to sense the orientation of the portable electronic device in space and respond accordingly such as by rotating the display output. For example some applications may cause the screen display to rotate in response to the portable electronic device being rotated. For example the screen display may rotate from portrait to landscape and vice versa. Such an application may keep the display in a certain orientation for the user regardless of the orientation of the portable electronic device. Such accelerometers may measure movement of the portable electronic device in up to three dimensions.

These and other embodiments and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the various exemplary embodiments.

Exemplary embodiments may provide a system and method for creating and displaying a virtual keyboard on a portable electronic device. The virtual keyboard may be virtual since it may be displayed on the screen of the portable electronic device. The portable electronic device may have an accelerometer to allow response of the virtual keyboard to movement of the portable electronic device. The portable electronic device may use an accelerometer input. The accelerometer input may be in the form of signals or data from the accelerometer relating to the orientation of the portable electronic device in space. A touch screen may be used to allow the user to perform entry into the portable electronic device using the virtual keyboard. The virtual keyboard may be displayed on the screen of the portable electronic device such as an Liquid Crystal Display LCD . The virtual keyboard may be created by software programming or hardware resident in the portable electronic device and executed by a processor.

The virtual keyboard size may be a multiple of the screen width and or height. For example the virtual keyboard may be 3 times the width of the screen. As a result the entire virtual keyboard may not be displayed on the screen. For example only a section of the virtual keyboard may be displayed at one time. The virtual keyboard may have an input area to display the entries as they are entered to allow the user to view and correct data entered. The keys on the virtual keyboard may be large enough to allow a finger to use them. Alternatively a stylus may be used for using the keys. The virtual keyboard may receive data from the accelerometer of the portable electronic device. The accelerometer input may be used to allow the virtual keyboard to move across the screen as the user of the portable electronic device inclines the phone. For example the virtual keyboard may move or slide to the left when the portable electronic device is inclined to the left. The virtual keyboard may slide up and down in response to inclination up or down. For example the user may incline the portable electronic device upward to cause the virtual keyboard to slide upward across the display. The virtual keyboard sliding movement may be coincident with the degree of incline of the portable electronic device. For example inclining the portable electronic device at a steep angle to the horizontal may cause the keyboard to slide fast whereas inclining the portable electronic device at a small angle may cause the keyboard to slide slowly. The rate of inclination may be used to control the speed of the virtual keyboard movement. For example a quick inclination to the left may cause the virtual keyboard to slide quickly to the left whereas a slow inclination may cause the virtual keyboard to slide at a slower pace.

Through the use of the inclination of the portable electronic device to control the movement of the virtual keyboard the user may gain access to input keys that are not presently displayed upon the screen. By making the virtual keyboard larger than the display screen size the individual keys of the virtual keyboard may be created larger in size than they might otherwise be able to be if the virtual keyboard was confined to the width and height of the display screen or soft input panel. Having larger keys may promote the use of fingertips to perform entry on the virtual keyboard. Using a fingertip instead of stylus to perform entry may allow faster entry since a user does not need to use a separate device and may mean that fewer steps are involved in entering data. It is understood that some devices may require the use of fingers to perform entry. In some devices a stylus and or fingers maybe used.

The description below describes computers portable electronic devices and other computing devices that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly depicted in the figures others are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to executable software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices e.g. servers instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices. It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers portable electronic devices client devices computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

The system implementing the method in accordance with exemplary embodiments may have components or modules associated with the portable electronic device to complete the steps of the method detailed below such displaying data. The portable electronic device may contain one or more processors. The one or more processors may be each dedicated to the processing of the data on the portable electronic device or the one or more processors may be shared with other modules contained in the portable electronic device.

The modules on the portable electronic device may include a processor a display area a storage module an accelerometer module a keyboard module and a user interface module. Other modules may be included. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

The personal electronic device may include one or more processors such as processor . The processor may be used for processing data such as accelerometer data and keyboard input. The processor may be used for executing software instructions such as those from the modules of the portable electronic device . Other functions may be performed by the processor as required. The processor is shown as a separate module in however in some embodiments the processor may be a distributed processor. The processor may be distributed among the various modules shown in . In other embodiments the processor may be shared with other functionality within the portable electronic device. The modules depicted in may share the processor .

The processor may include the operating system of the portable electronic device . The operating system may be any operating system or software that provides functionality and operation of the portable electronic device. The operating system may be an operating system capable of having certain functions modified or extended such as the virtual keyboard. Such a modification may be made through the use of programming interfaces such as Application Programming Interfaces or APIs. The programming interfaces may allow a third party such as a user of the portable electronic device to modify the functionality of certain features of the operating system. The behavior of features of the operating system may be altered.

The portable electronic device may include a display area . A virtual keyboard may be displayed using the display area . The display area may represent the portable electronic device built in display capabilities. For example the virtual keyboard may be displayed on a LCD screen associated with the portable electronic device . Other types of display screens may be used such as plasma screens. The display of the portable electronic device may be a touch screen. A touch screen may allow entry into the portable electronic device through pressure exerted on the screen at particular points on the screen. An input device such as a fingertip or a stylus may be used to exert pressure on the screen.

It is understood that different types of touch screens may be used with exemplary embodiments. For example the screen may be a resistive touch screen. A resistive touch screen may allow the use of either a stylus or a finger and may have greater precision of input. Alternatively a capacitive touch screen may be used. A capacitive touch screen may allow the use of a finger for input and may require a lighter exertion of pressure on the screen than a resistive touch screen but may sacrifice precision. However use of a stylus on such a screen may not be possible. A capacitive touch screen may register an input by making the object exerting pressure on the screen a part of an electrical circuit grid which makes up the screen. Therefore a stylus typically being made of plastic may not be conductive to allow circuit completion. It should be appreciated that a conductive stylus may be used such as one made of metal. Other types of touch screens may be possible. Other objects beside a stylus or finger may be used with the touch screen for entry into the portable electronic device as appropriate for the screen type such as a pen or a pencil.

A storage module may provide for storage of data and modules. The storage module may consist of any suitable storage hardware or firmware or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the storage module may be removable from the portable electronic device . For example the storage module may be a removable memory card. A combination of removable and non removable storage may be used. The storage module may have temporary storage such as a temporary cache or volatile storage such as random access memory RAM . The storage module may provide distributed storage for data such as storage distributed across the modules contained within the storage module. Alternatively the storage module may provide centralized storage for the portable electronic device . The storage module may provide storage for modules such as those depicted in including a keyboard module a user interface module and an accelerometer module . Other modules may be included. The modules may represent software code or instructions. The processor may provide execution for the functionality of the modules. The functionality of the modules and will now be described.

A keyboard module may generate a virtual keyboard such as the virtual keyboard . The keyboard module may instruct the display area to display the virtual keyboard . The keyboard module may generate the virtual keyboard in response to a command or action on or from the portable electronic device . The generation may be automatic based on a set of pre determined rules. For example executing a certain application on the portable electronic device may cause a virtual keyboard to be generated. Alternatively the keyboard generation may be in response to a user selection. For example the user may select a keyboard icon on the screen to cause the virtual keyboard to be generated. The keyboard module may receive inputs from the accelerometer module as discussed below.

The virtual keyboard may be sized to be a multiple of the display screen size. For example the virtual keyboard may be three times the width of the display screen of the portable electronic device . The virtual keyboard may be the same size as the display screen. The virtual keyboard may be sized to various multiples of the display screen size based on user input. It is understood that the sizing of the virtual keyboard in relation to the screen size may determine the actual size of the keys on the virtual keyboard . For example the higher the screen size multiple the larger the keys may appear on the display. For example the key size may be 1 cm by 1 cm to approximate key size on a typical QWERTY computer keyboard. The virtual keyboard may be sized in both width and height based on the display screen size. A combination of width and height may be used. Alternatively only width or height may be used in sizing the virtual keyboard. For example the virtual keyboard may be sized to occupy the height of the display screen and be 2 times as wide as the display screen. Selection of such sizing may be done by the keyboard module based on user input through the user interface module . A default size of the virtual keyboard may be predetermined. The virtual keyboard may incorporate an entry area to display inputs as entered by the user. Such an entry area may be a part of the virtual keyboard .

In some embodiments it is understood the portable electronic device may be positioned in different orientations such as portrait or landscape. In such positions the screen height and width may change based on the orientation of the portable electronic device. For example when changing from portrait to landscape orientation the height and width of the screen are interchanged. The keyboard module may account for such orientations and alter the orientation of the virtual keyboard accordingly.

A user interface module may provide user interaction with the portable electronic device and the other modules of the portable electronic device . The user interface module may receive user interaction with the portable electronic device. Alternatively the user interaction module functionality may be distributed among the other modules of the portable electronic device . For example each module may have its own user interaction module. The user interface module may provide for a suitable interface for the user such as a graphical user interface GUI which may include a virtual keyboard. The capabilities of user interface module may be limited by the capabilities of the personal electronic device . User input to the portable electronic device through the user interface module may be completed through such input devices as the virtual keyboard a touch screen a trackwheel or any other input means for entering or inputting information to the portable electronic device .

An accelerometer module may provide for receive collate process and distribute accelerometer data such as data from an accelerometer . Accelerometer may be a three axis accelerometer. The accelerometer may measure linear acceleration. The acceleration measured may be the direction that gravity is acting on the portable electronic device. For example the accelerometer may measure acceleration relative to a pre determined set of X Y and Z axes. In some embodiments a two axis accelerometer may be used. Such an accelerometer may measure acceleration in two pre determined axes. It is understood that the orientation of the axes of the accelerometer may be set as desired for the portable electronic device . For example the X axis may be roll the Y axis may be pitch and the Z axis may be yaw. The user may have control over the accelerometer or the configuration thereof. In some embodiments the user may have no control over the accelerometer module and its configuration. The accelerometer module may receive an output from the accelerometer . The accelerometer output may be in the form of an analog or digital signal. The accelerometer module may collate and process the output of the accelerometer . The processing may alter the form of the received signal. Alternatively the accelerometer module may use processor to process the accelerometer output. The output may be processed to extract or transform the data to provide instructions to the keyboard module for positioning of the virtual keyboard on the display area .

In some embodiments accelerometer may be other than a physical accelerometer. For example software in conjunction with another physical device such as a digital imaging device may be used to simulate an accelerometer. The accelerometer module may receive the signals or data from such alternatives and process them accordingly. In some embodiments a Global Positioning System GPS input may be used.

At block a user command selection of a virtual keyboard may be performed. The selection may occur on a portable electronic device . For example the user interface module may receive the input of the user generating the command for a virtual keyboard to be displayed such as the virtual keyboard . A virtual keyboard may be required to enter information into the portable electronic device such as creating a contact or entering a Uniform Resource Locator URL to call up an internet site. For example a user with a cell phone may need to enter contact information into the cell phone. It should be appreciated that many reasons may exist to enter data or information into a portable electronic device that may require a virtual keyboard or a numeric keypad.

The user input to select or call up the virtual keyboard may be entered into the portable electronic device using various input devices as a touch screen a stylus a trackwheel a dedicated key or any other input means for entering or inputting information to the portable electronic device . The selection may be performed by selecting an icon on the display using a touch screen. For example a stylus may be used to select a keyboard icon on the screen of the portable electronic device. A trackwheel may be used to select an option from a menu or GUI. It should be appreciated that other various input methods and or combinations thereof are possible.

Continuing at block the virtual keyboard may be generated. The virtual keyboard may be generated in response to the command from block . For example the keyboard module may receive the command from the user interface module . The keyboard module may generate a virtual keyboard . The virtual keyboard may be of various architectures such as shown in .

At block input keyboard options may be selected. This step may be optional. In some embodiments the method may go from block to block . The options may be generated by the keyboard module . The user may be prompted following initial selection at block to select a particular keyboard architecture to generate. For example the user may desire only a numeric keypad as shown in . The user may be presented with additional options to define the virtual keyboard such as sizing speed of response etc. It is understood that various options are possible. The user may be presented options providing detailed control over the configuration display and behavior of the virtual keyboard . For example the user may control the width and height of the keyboard by specifying multiples of the display screen size. Options may be presented to allow display of word options to complete the initial letters selected. For example the user may enter d and o and a prompt may be displayed to select the word dog . Such options may be presented through a series of menus on the screen. The user may select and alter the options desired. The user may be given the opportunity to save his or her choices. The choices may be saved in the storage module . The user may select an option to not be presented with such options menu during subsequent future uses of the virtual keyboard and rely upon the saved default choices. In such cases the method may go from block to block . The user may have an option to alter the options of block at any time during the use of the virtual keyboard. A set of default options for the virtual keyboard may be pre determined for the portable electronic device . The user may elect to use the default options or may selectively change the default options.

At block the virtual keyboard is displayed. For example the keyboard module may send a command to the display module to display the keyboard . In generating the display command the keyboard module may receive data from the accelerometer module . The keyboard module may use this data to determine the present orientation of the portable electronic device . The keyboard module may then position and orient the keyboard appropriately for use. For example the keyboard module may use the accelerometer data to calculate the present position of the portable electronic device in order to determine the center point and the orientation for the virtual keyboard . All subsequent movement of the virtual keyboard may be based from this initial position.

Continuing at block the virtual keyboard is used. The user of the portable electronic device may use the keyboard as required to enter data or information into the portable electronic device. In using the keyboard the user s finger or a stylus may be used to select the keys of the virtual keyboard to enter information. For example the user may use his or her index finger to enter a word by tapping the display of the portable electronic device to select the appropriate letters from the virtual keyboard . Alternatively if the touch screen of the portable electronic device supports it a stylus may be used for entry of such information. For example a stylus that may be included with the portable electronic device may be used or a substitute stylus such as a pen may be used.

At block the portable electronic device is moved. Through the use of such an movement the position of the virtual keyboard may be changed on the display of the portable electronic device . For example the movement may involve inclining or tilting the portable electronic device such as the user may tilt the portable electronic device to the left. It is understood the portable electronic device may be moved or tilted in various directions such as left right up down and or combinations thereof. The direction of the movement may determine the direction of movement of the keyboard . The accelerometer module may use the output from the accelerometer to determine the extent of the incline.

Continuing at block the virtual keyboard may respond to the movement. The keyboard module may receive accelerometer data corresponding to the change in position of the portable electronic device . The data may be received from the accelerometer module . The keyboard module may generate a command to move the keyboard appropriately in response to the change in position. The command may be sent to the display module . For example in response to the left tilt or incline of the portable electronic device the keyboard module may command the virtual keyboard to move to the left. Subsequently the virtual keyboard as seen by the user will move to the left on the display of the portable electronic device . Based on such a move the user may now select and use the additional keys that may be displayed.

The degree of incline or tilt of the portable electronic device may be used to determine the velocity of the change in display of the virtual keyboard. For example the larger the degree of incline the faster the virtual keyboard may move on the display. Alternatively the rate of incline such as the quickness at which the portable electronic device is inclined may determine the velocity of movement of the virtual keyboard . For example a quick tilt of the portable electronic device to the right may cause a quick slide or movement of the virtual keyboard to the right.

The steps shown at blocks through may be repeated as required to enter the data or information into the portable electronic device .

In the preceding specification various exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

