---

title: Deployment and distribution model for improved content delivery system
abstract: A deployment and distribution model improves content delivery with a business incentive for placement of kiosks with one or more wireless access points in public locations so that portable media players (PMPs) can receive media content (e.g., audio, video, text, haptic content, etc.). In addition, coordination between subscribing users of PMPs, vendors who provide kiosks, and a network central controller of a content distribution system allow for prepositioning of video content at the kiosks through economically desirable low data rate communication links from the network (e.g., dial-up modem, DSL, etc.); coordinated queuing of downloads (e.g., partial downloads) between kiosk to PMP, peer-to-peer (P2P) downloading between PMPs, and uploads from PMP to kiosk; billing/crediting to correspond with such participation in the distribution; and changing priority/selection of prepositioning of content at kiosks to reflect a clientele profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08966001&OS=08966001&RS=08966001
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08966001
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080902
---
U.S. application Ser. No. 12 203 096 Access Point for Improved Content Delivery System by Peter Rauber et al. filed concurrently herewith assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein and

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 203 087 Methods and Apparatus for an Enhanced Media Content Rating System by Grob et al. filed concurrently herewith assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects disclosed herein pertain to a communication network that distributes media content to a mobile communication device via geographically positioned kiosks that support wireless access points and in particular to providing a subscription based distribution service with wireless download in intermittent coverage areas.

Users desire continuous access to media content across a wide array of devices both fixed and mobile. Abilities to rapidly download media content in a pay per view subscription from a set top box or to download or stream media content over a broadband connection raise expectations for instant access. Reduced time is desired between making a selection and having the selection.

With expanded storage processing and display capabilities portable devices that play media content e.g. audio video text haptic material etc. are becoming ubiquitous. Portable media players PMP can also be just one aspect of a convergent handheld device that has uses such as a personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone email application etc. For some users who travel frequently a mobile communication device that serves at least in part as a PMP can become a predominant source of entertainment and information.

Third generation 3G communication networks which are still being deployed are all digital and offer data access in addition to voice services and include W CDMA known also as UMTS and CDMA2000 EV DO. Operators that support a population of mobile communication devices offer certain capabilities for selecting and downloading media content either unicast or multicast. Typically the video display quality is appropriate for the relatively small displays of a smart phone or similar handheld device wherein the high data compression makes use of the bandwidth constrained channel economically feasible.

New PMPs are offering larger displays and increased memory storage that are suitable to playing video with higher quality. Thus downloading of media content requires access to a broadband communication channel with sufficient data rates for downloading larger files. These broadband network access ports or wireless coverage areas at a home or public place act as an intermediary between a source of the media content and the end user PMP. Given the large bandwidth consumption needed by the PMP to download for example a movie file there can be few locations with sufficient capability to allow such use. Moreover with increasing numbers of such PMP devices the existing infrastructure of broadband network access locations available for PMP devices to use within a reasonable period of time can be expected to be limited. Consequently the distribution of media content to PMP capable devices can be limited to those who rely upon home use and have made the necessary investment in broadband network access.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described features in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with providing a deployment and distribution model for improved content delivery that provides a business incentive for placement of kiosks with one or more wireless access points in public locations so that portable media players PMPs can receive media content e.g. audio video text haptic content etc. . In addition coordination between subscribing users of PMPs vendors who provide kiosks and a network central controller of a content distribution system allow for prepositioning of video content at the kiosks through economically desirable low data rate communication links from the network e.g. dial up modem DSL etc. coordinated queuing of downloads e.g. partial downloads between kiosk to PMP peer to peer P2P downloading between PMPs and uploads from PMP to kiosk billing crediting to correspond with such participation in the distribution and changing priority selection of prepositioning of content at kiosks to reflect a clientele profile.

In one aspect a method wirelessly acquires media content. Media content selection is received from a user via user interface. A first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage. A second portion of the selected media content is requested and received from a wireless communication channel. Reporting receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In another aspect at least one processor wirelessly acquires media content. A first module receives media content selection from a user via user interface. A second module receives a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage. A third module requests and receives a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. A fourth module reports receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In an additional aspect a computer program product for wirelessly acquiring media content has a computer readable storage medium having a first set of instructions for causing a computer to receive media content selection from a user via user interface. A second set of instructions causes the computer to receive a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage. A third set of instructions causes the computer to request and to receive a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. A fourth set of instructions causes the computer to report receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In another additional aspect an apparatus wirelessly acquires media content. Means are provided for receiving media content selection from a user via user interface. Means are provided for receiving a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage. Means are provided for requesting and receiving a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. Means are provided for reporting receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In further aspect an apparatus wirelessly acquires media content. A user interface receives media content selection from a user. A communication module receives a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage and for requesting and receiving a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. A content distribution controller reports receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller via the communication module.

In yet one aspect a method wirelessly distributes media content. A media content selection is received from a user via user interface. A first portion of the selected media content from local storage is transmitted via a wireless access point to a subscriber portable device. A second portion of the selected media content is transmitted from a wireless communication channel. A report of receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content is received by a network controller.

In yet another aspect at least one processor wirelessly distributes media content. A first module receives media content selection from a user via user interface. A second module transmits a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage to a subscriber portable device. A third module transmits a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. A fourth module receives a report of receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In yet an additional aspect a computer program product wirelessly distributes media content by having a computer readable storage medium containing a first set of instructions that causes a computer to receive media content selection from a user via user interface. A second set of instructions causes the computer to transmit a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage to a subscriber portable device. A third set of instructions causes the computer to transmit a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. A fourth set of instructions causes the computer to receive a report of receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In yet another additional aspect an apparatus wirelessly distributes media content. Means are provided for receiving media content selection from a user via user interface. Means are provided for transmitting a first portion of the selected media content from a wireless access point which had accessed the selected media content from local storage to a subscriber portable device. Means are provided for transmitting a second portion of the selected media content from a wireless communication channel. Means are provided for receiving a report of receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

In yet a further aspect an apparatus wirelessly distributes media content. A communication module receives media content selection from a user via user interface. A vendor access point transmits a first portion of the selected media content from local storage to a subscriber portable device. A wireless communication channel transmits a second portion of the selected media content. A billing module receives a report of receipt of at least a portion of the selected media content to a network controller.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the aspects may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.

Turning to the Drawings in an exemplary content delivery system economically expeditiously distributes media content to a wireless capable mobile device that comprises or includes a media player . A user can utilize a user interface which can be external or integral to the mobile device to communicate a selection such as found in a media content catalog received by the mobile device or the user interface .

In another aspect these selections can comprise a more general category in advance of specific selections being available or being specifically selected. For example the user can select top movie download of the week or any movie starring John Smith . In an additional aspect for a user interface integral to or in local communication with the mobile device the user can make selections off line as a wish list which can include query search terms that are user generated without benefit of a pre established catalog listing or be from the catalog as previously received. The selection thus becomes known to other entities of the content delivery system when in wireless communication range.

A network control device of the content delivery system receives the selection and authorizes the user as a subscriber for receiving the selected media content. Advantageously a vendor kiosk has previously received the media content and stored the media content in local storage along with an updated catalog reflecting availability of media content for wireless distribution to the mobile device . Prepositioning can utilize a low band width communication channel such a broadcast signal from which the vendor kiosk records certain content items as directed or selected. Prepositioning can utilize a dial up modem or DSL communication connection to a public telephone switched network PSTN . In addition prepositioning can utilize a broadband connection during off peak hours to avoid or mitigate impacts to a vendor s other uses of the communication bandwidth. It should be appreciated that even high bandwidth connections such as a T1 line can be sufficiently limited by various user demands or size of the content to be considered a low band width communication channel for the purpose of receiving media content. Alternatively or in addition the download can be given priority after receipt of the selection by the user .

The user who is carrying the mobile device can enter a coverage area of a wireless access point managed by the vendor kiosk such as being positioned in a retail establishment or public area. Thus without making a dedicated effort to retrieve the selected media content the mobile device can exchange communications with the vendor kiosk such as receiving the updated catalog reflecting the availability of the prior selection. In response in one aspect the vendor kiosk authenticates the user with either locally or by facilitating a pass through to the network controller for authentication. The vendor kiosk transfers wirelessly at least a portion of the selected media content as depicted at by a wireless data packet coverage area which can be dynamically adjusted in size based on other queued requests or interference from other APs not depicted and reported to the network control device for tracking transaction progress and billing credit. The wireless capable mobile device stores the received at least partial media content in device storage . The mobile device can provide download progress feedback to the user thereby allowing the user to choose to remain within coverage area for a sufficient time to complete the download.

In the illustrative depiction according to one aspect the user leaves the coverage area before completing the download. In some implementations the mobile device not only determines what portion remains to be downloaded at the next opportunity but can also provide the partial media content for playback by the media player . At a subsequent time an opportunity arises for completing the download via a communication channel described below that completes sending the remaining portion of the media content depicted at . When a network communication opportunity exists the mobile device the communication channel or another vendor kiosk not shown reports completion of the download and or contributions of various intermediaries so that appropriate billing and credits can be awarded by a billing module for participating in the content delivery system . The network control device can include a network communication module for interfacing to the vendor kiosk and directly or indirectly to other recipients such as communication channel and user interface .

The communication channel can comprise another vendor kiosk another wireless capable mobile device that has previously downloaded the media content as a subscriber or an alternative backhaul network utilized to complete media delivery. For example a smart cell phone can be both capable of 802.11n wireless access as well as 2of 3generation cell phone communication. The user can have a previously established preference or make affirmative selection to incur an additional charge to complete download by the backhaul network. Alternatively or in addition to enhance quality of service the network control device can initiate use of the backhaul network to culminate the download transaction when a vendor kiosk has not completed the download. In one aspect a determination threshold based upon an elapsed time for the download or a threshold of a ratio of the media content remaining to download can trigger the backhaul download.

FIGS. and illustrate methodologies and or flow diagrams in accordance with the claimed subject matter. For simplicity of explanation the methodologies are depicted and described as a series of acts. It is to be understood and appreciated that the subject innovation is not limited by the acts illustrated and or by the order of acts. For example acts can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with the claimed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

With reference to a methodology for wirelessly delivering media content is initiated by receiving a selection from a media content catalog by a user via a user interface block . A user equipment e.g. mobile communication device converged handheld computer access terminal smart phone portable media player wireless capable handheld game console personal digital assistant etc. requests and receives a first portion of the selection from a wireless access point which advantageously has the content readily available in local storage block . Subsequently the user equipment requests and receives the other portion of the selection via a wireless communication channel block . This channel can be another access point managed by the same vendor kiosk another kiosk coverage area a peer to peer P2P transfer from another subscriber s PMP a backhaul network or broadband home connection etc. Participation in completing the media content delivery is reported to the network controller in order to credit intermediaries providing an incentive for expanding the coverage by the content delivery system as well as to confirm billing appropriate for the end user block . Gradations in billing based on partial downloads can reflect the cost to the network and or intermediaries of utilizing various communication channels.

With reference to a content delivery system improves upon delivery of media content over a communication network by utilizing a plurality of strategically placed vendor kiosks that have an economic incentive to service a plurality of wireless capable portable devices . It should be appreciated that portable devices can comprise a number of types handheld or carried apparatus with a unitary or distributed construction that perform a more dedicated function e.g. solely media player or are a converged device having media player as one function e.g. smart phone . In the illustrative depiction a population of wireless capable portable devices are depicted as including a personal media player PMP carried by a user a wireless media storage device and a converged handheld computer . It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that for clarity a media player is depicted in a sequence highlighting user interactions with a portable device that can immediately enjoy or utilize media content of the communicated selection. However aspects of a portable device can encompass a wider range of capabilities such as a handheld or notebook computer e.g. converged handheld computer having a media player as one application. Alternatively aspects of a portable device can be limited to capabilities of the wirelessly capable media storage device that takes advantage of opportunities to economically download content for later playback on another device.

The communication network can provide communication channels of varying data throughput interoperability and coverage areas. For example portions of the communication network can comprise a public or private Internet public telephone switched network PSTN and or an over the air broadcast carrier e.g. unicast multicast one way two way WiMax cellular telephone etc. depicted as a backhaul network for media content distribution purposes. In the exemplary depiction the communication channel via the PTSN to vendor kiosk is very economical albeit slow for downloading large media files and provides an opportunity for prepositioning popular catalog selections well in advance of a user being in proximity.

A network controller manages the content delivery system by maintaining a subscriber record data structure and content pre positioning tracking data structure that is reflected in updated catalogs. The central controller relays billing and credits to a billing service and receives advertisements from advertisers for merging or coupling in some instances with delivered media content . A central operator interface I F can provide human interaction configuration of central controller operator assistance via the PTSN with users or facilitating a user web input output I O service for subscribing or for receiving selections. Web enabled portable devices such as depicted at can incorporate a web I O for making selections. Media providers that provide access to the media content can facilitate data rights management DRM for end user access and use limitations on the media content . It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that a delivery path for the content and the delivery path for the data rights can differ from each other. For example the content can be delivered in advance from a kiosk while the rights might be delivered via a generic access point once the user deletes previous content. As another example the content can be delivered by a peer PMP and the rights can be delivered via a network kiosk etc. .

In an illustrative use case the PMP enters a coverage area of the kiosk which can be dynamically adjusted resulting in receiving a first portion of a selection which can include user indication as depicted at . The kiosk can optimize queuing of content to multiple portable device such as depicted with wirelessly capable media storage device and and PMP . For example the kiosk can complete delivery of media content one at a time as one approach to queue optimization. Alternatively if sufficient bandwidth exists simultaneous transmission to multiple devices can occur such as when the kiosk has multiple available channels. As another example the kiosk can prioritize transmissions for those with sufficient channel quality excluding those that would require significant redundant coding or retransmissions for successful download. Upon leaving the coverage area or shutdown of the PMP a partial content transfer module verifies the integrity of the partial transfer prepares a report to the network for the next opportunity to upload to a kiosk and in some instances format the partial transfer for playback. The kiosks can determine that the PMP has left coverage area in one aspect by determining that data rate has dropped below a certain threshold that an unacceptably high error rate or by detected received power. Subsequently the PMP forms an ad hoc network with the other subscribing portable device that is able to transfer another portion of the selection previously downloaded or relayed from kiosk . Subsequently the PMP completes the download from kiosk which can be the same device as a home kiosk that archives or supplements the downloaded selection from the PMP . The home kiosk e.g. a set top box home computer dedicated device etc. or the PMP in some aspects can then stream or download the media content for playback on a full size display monitor . Assisting in the distribution of media content can further entail uploading from a portable device to a vendor kiosk .

Referring now to an exemplary content delivery system can utilize a communication network so that a network central controller can manage delivery of media content to a vendor kiosk for wireless transmission to a subscriber s PMP . Although not illustrated network can also include other communication network components such as a base station controller a mobile switching center a position determination entity a group communications server etc. operable to facilitate communications and services provided to vendor kiosk and other components. Network may be any private or public wireless or wired communications network operating according to any known standard including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cdmaOne cdma2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wideband CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and TIA EIA 136 WiMax DSL cable modem link.

A user web input output I O enables changes to subscription review of billing credits transaction history catalog review and content selection device configuration setup user preferences etc. A central operator I O facilitates supervision of the content delivery system and customer service etc. The central controller further comprises an authentication server or module for verifying subscriber identity. A subscription validation module cross references the subscriber identity with access rights under a currently active subscription. A media list management module maintains data as to available media content their configuration e.g. format compression locations available currency with regard to a distributed content catalog etc. A digital rights management module implements requisite data encryption tracking and reporting to satisfy contractual and statutory protections necessary or desirable for media content. A File Transfer Management to Access Point FTM AP module provides appropriate protocols and tracking for downloading media content to kiosks . In an exemplary embodiment the FTM AP can advantageously be robust and platform independent or platform configurable so that the same module can also be distributed to new vendor kiosks for wirelessly serving PMPs . A report generation billing module facilitates billing and customer relations functions. A user web interface interacts with the user web I O .

The kiosk can manage a plurality of access points APs for providing a desired coverage area. In an exemplary implementation the APs can utilize an 802.11n wireless protocol although it should be appreciated that various near field personal access network wireless access network wide area network and broadcast protocols can be used in various applications as desired or appropriate. A network communication channel can be provided by a network communication module capable of data packet protocol communication. Alternatively or in addition a PSTN modem e.g. DSL can provide an economical albeit limited throughput connection. Unauthorized use of the wireless coverage area or the network communication channel can be prevented by a security module .

Although the kiosk could be wholly controlled from another entity such as the central operator I O the kiosk can advantageously include a vendor graphical user interface GUI with input device and an output device for allowing the vendor to adjust configurations monitor transactions review alter locally stored media content manually adjust priority requests from the network initiate communications with the network etc. For example an input device can comprise a mechanism such as a key keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects an input device provides for user input to interact with an application or program or module. Further for example an output device may include audio speaker display a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

In some applications the kiosk comprises a public GUI with an input device and an output device such as described above. The public GUI could be provided by the vendor GUI with a security lockout to limit available functions. The public GUI can provide additional interactivity especially for certain PMPs that lack certain user interface features.

Further kiosk can include a computer platform depicted as an access point AP controller that comprises a processor and memory . Processor controls the operation of kiosk according to applications or programs or modules stored in memory which can comprise random access memory RAM and nonvolatile memory depicted as network attached local storage . The control functions may be implemented for example in a single microprocessor or in multiple microprocessors. Suitable microprocessors may include general purpose and special purpose microprocessors state machines as well as digital signal processors. Further for example processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other data processing device such as ASIC can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident applications and or programs and or modules such as a content delivery system module stored in memory .

Memory represents all of the memory associated with kiosk and may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM erasable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. For example computer program instructions and data utilized in the operation of kiosk may be stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory. Additionally memory may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or may be integrated with processor . Memory can also include areas partitioned into and designated for use as temporary memory buffers or for use by content delivery system module .

The content delivery system module can comprise modules that perform various functions for the delivery of media content. An authentication pass through module passes through various security protocol messages to the central controller . Alternatively or in addition the kiosk can contain sufficient capability to autonomous authenticate. A storage management module maintains inventory of locally stored media content transaction records and clientele data in network attached local storage . The content delivery system module can further comprise a data rights management encryption module that implements copyright contractual protections to limit uses of the media content . A file transfer management module manages delivery of media content to the PMP . A reporting module prepares transaction data for local stored transaction records or for communication to the central controller . A wireless access configuration and beacon control module manages the plurality of APs and sets parameters for a beacon signal to alert PMPs as to the presence and direction of the coverage area provided by the APs . The beacon signal can be a particular synchronization broadcast channel capability of another component used for data communications. Alternatively a dedicated radio frequency RF beacon can be provided to provide an extended range signal for enhancing the situational awareness of a user in locating the coverage areas available.

In an exemplary aspect the PMP can comprise cellular telephone. It should be understood with the benefit of the present disclosure that the PMP may include any computerized device capable of receiving broadcast signals such as a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a satellite telephone a palm computer a Personal Communication Services PCS device a portable gaming or music device etc. In particular the PMP comprises a computing platform depicted as an access terminal AT controller that control request and receipt of media content from the kiosk . This receipt can be made via a wireless communication interface module having a receiver and transmitter . The PMP can be a dual mode device capable of maintaining simultaneous sessions depicted by a second wireless communication interface module with receiver and transmitter . The simultaneous sessions can be to the same radio access technology or to different radio access technologies. For example the PMP can be integral to a smart phone capable of cellular communications and 802.11 data communications. In an exemplary aspect a portable power supply e.g. batteries ultra capacitors fuel cell solar panel motion powered generator etc. provides enhanced mobility. Increased service life can be achieved by entering a sleep wake cycle with the wireless communication interface modules to reduce power consumption.

The PMP can advantageously sense or receive geographic location information from a location module depicted as being responsive to global positioning system GPS satellites . It should be noted however that location module may alternately or in addition be responsive to a terrestrial based wireless communication network e.g. a CDMA network where all or some portion of position determination may be based on communications with base stations and or where location determination calculations are performed in whole or in part by network servers. Alternatively or in addition the location module can comprise an inertial platform that detects changes in location. A motion sensor can comprise an accelerometer or other transducer that provides data for calculating acceleration velocity and location based on motion. The motion sensor can also provide orientation data for adjusting the display automatically for viewing angle. The motion sensor can also provide user interaction data to determine when to actively seek connection to a kiosk or to alter the sleep wake cycle. For example when the PMP is not moving at all a stationary condition can be determined making checking for access to an AP unwarranted perhaps resulting in shutting down altogether or lengthening sleep periods. Alternatively or in addition the location module can receive direction finding signal strength node location information from a network device not shown that determines the location of the PMP .

The AT controller can be indirectly controlled in whole or in part by a separate GUI e.g. a home PC based synchronization software . In the exemplary aspect an integral GUI with input device and an output device allows the user to adjust configurations monitor transactions review alter locally stored media content playback content make selections from a catalog of media content initiate communications with the network such as for subscription updates etc. In some aspects these user inputs can be made while out of range of a kiosk or other network connection. For example an input device can comprise a mechanism such as a key keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects an input device provides for user input to interact with an application or program or module. Further for example an output device may include audio speaker display a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

The AT controller that comprises a processor and memory . Processor controls the operation of PMP according to applications or programs or modules stored in memory which can comprise random access memory RAM and nonvolatile memory depicted as network attached local storage . The control functions may be implemented for example in a single microprocessor or in multiple microprocessors. Suitable microprocessors may include general purpose and special purpose microprocessors state machines as well as digital signal processors. Further for example processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other data processing device such as ASIC can execute an operating system application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident applications and or programs and or modules such as a content delivery system module stored in memory . API can be a runtime environment executing on the PMP . One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications or programs or modules on PMP .

Memory represents all of the memory associated with kiosk and may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM erasable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. For example computer program instructions and data utilized in the operation of PMP may be stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory. Additionally memory may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or may be integrated with processor . Memory can also include areas partitioned into and designated for use as temporary memory buffers or for use by content delivery system module .

The content delivery system module can comprise modules that perform various functions for the delivery of media content. An authentication client communicates through the authentication pass through module to the authentication server of the central controller using a subscription key stored in local storage . A media content list management tracks media selected for download as well as media content partially or wholly received and stored in local storage . A DRM decryption module utilizes appropriate keys to decrypt the media content for play or other authorized uses e.g. streaming to an attached monitor . A file transfer management module assists in tracking receipt or transmission of media content including partial receipt transmission. A content consumption e.g. player module provides playback on the local user output device . A reporting module prepares transaction data for local logging and or for reporting to the central controller for billing crediting purposes. A wireless access configuration beacon module configures wireless setup as appropriate to communicate with the kiosk a P2P to another PMP or a broadcast signal from a backhaul network not shown in . It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that certain capabilities can be distributed or omitted and that this depiction is exemplary. For example user interface features can be external and further can be remote. In some aspects the portable media player is functionally achieved by a portable wirelessly capable media storage device that is coupled to an external display and controls. For example a docking station of a home media system not shown can access the stored media content.

With reference to a scenario of content delivery system CDS illustrates how media content can be nonobtrusively and economically delivered to a user s PMP portable device . Prior to interaction with the CDS by the user a vendor kiosk can be distributing media content as depicted at to a population of portable devices depicted as a Clientele PMP . These transactions result in a report as depicted at to a CDS Central Controller that passes on billing and crediting information to a Billing Service such as crediting the vendor for serving as an intermediary and billing the clientele for the media selected and received via the CDS . These transactions can further be characterized for example for determining what genres of media content are more profitable and or more requested and at what locations. Although this determination can be performed in whole or in part at various entities of the CDS this characterization of clientele is depicted at as occurring at the Kiosk C which uses the results to pull reprioritize content from the CDS central controller as depicted at .

It should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that in some applications a content delivery system can thus leverage APs characterizing a population of users in its coverage area that is used to adjust content available for delivery by the APs. For example the APs can access a shared user profile divulged by mobile devices. As another example the APs can cross reference an identifier for the mobile devices with a user profile maintained at a network entity. Thus when a kiosk or a particular AP managed by a kiosk is detected as having a particular demographic e.g. 80 of users are male aged 18 25 the content pushed or pulled for the kiosk can be altered accordingly.

The user of the PMP can access services from the CDS via a user input output I O device . For example the I O could be a graphical user interface a human or automated telephone interface a web portal a haptic interface etc. Moreover this user I O can be integral to the PMP or external e.g. home or office workstation . The user I O can configure as depicted at network subscription information configure technical or preferential settings for network communications kiosk communications or peer to peer P2P communications. For example the user may prefer not to consume battery power in uploading content to the kiosk or to another subscriber. Otherwise the user may prefer to participate in media content delivery in order to receive a credit. The user may or may not prefer to make location or user identity automatically evident to kiosks or to other subscriber devices. In order to be better served in content prepositioned for download the user may prefer to share demographic information that can explicitly identify content of interest or locations frequented. The user I O can also make selections in accordance with the subscription to have media content downloaded such as selected from a media list catalog. These subscriptions demographic information content selections are transmitted from the user I O as depicted at to the CDS central controller which can utilize a communication channel such as an Internet connection PTSN mail in form etc. The CDS central controller in turn updates the user profile accordingly as depicted at .

The user PMP can be sensing or causing a location report to be generated as depicted at . For example a cellular Short Message Service SMS an 802.11 access point etc. can sense a beacon from the PMP . Such location information can be gathered when no media content selections are pending for download for the purposes of characterization a user specifically or a demographic profile for clientele in general for a particular kiosk location. The location report can be determined by the receiving entity depicted as a proximate vendor kiosk A as merely being within the coverage area. Alternatively or in addition the location report can be based upon geographic coordinates divulged by the PMP especially for communication modalities have an inherently large coverage area e.g. WiMax . In response the kiosk A authenticates the user s PMP at either autonomously or by communicating with a remote network such as the CDS Central and reports the impending arrival for a beacon of greater range than data communication range. Alternatively or in addition the kiosk A collects such information for periodic reporting to the CDS central controller .

In some implementations or for certain kiosks such as kiosk A a high bandwidth connection from the CDS central controller can exist. In this instance the CDS central controller can be monitoring user profile as depicted at including pending selection downloads and location tracking. Sufficient time can exist for the CDS central controller to identify content to push to the kiosk as depicted at . The kiosk A distributes a portion of the selected media content as depicted at to the PMP . In some instances Connection between PMP and kiosk A terminates before full download of the selected content such as due to insufficient time the kiosk not having a full copy of the media content in time powering down of either device etc. In response the kiosk A reports partial distribution to the CDS central controller as depicted at which responds in turn by sending a credit report to billing service as depicted at .

The PMP can enter a low power discovery mode as depicted at when transitioning between coverage areas. Radio Frequency RF transceiver circuitry can be intermittently activated to discover and acquire a kiosk . In addition a low power state can be used when in a coverage area between downlink and uplink slot allocations. Alternatively or in addition automatic or manually set power saving mode can be entered into to extend service life such as when the user has not made a pending selection awaiting for download or when a power supply state reaches a certain low level.

In some implementations or for certain kiosks such as a kiosk B a low bandwidth communication channel exists for receiving media content from the CDS central controller . For example the channel is a PTSN connection. As another example the channel is heavily utilized for other purposes leaving a small allocation to such media downloads. The CDS central controller can perform a location prediction process as depicted which can entail characterization a general population that frequents a kiosk location or can target a particular user that is predicted by past behavior or based upon a current trajectory to be within the coverage area of kiosk B . With this prediction the CDS central controller can push media content in advance to the kiosk B as depicted at . Media content can also be received by the kiosk from a Clientele PMP that volunteers to upload when visiting the coverage area of kiosk as depicted at . For example the Clientele PMP could receive certain credits from the CDS central controller in order to being willing to share stored content. Subsequently PMP enters the coverage area and receives a distribution of a further portion of the content as depicted at which might terminate before completion. In response the kiosk B makes a report at some point to the CDS central controller regarding the partial distribution at which in turn makes a credit report at to the billing service . The PMP stores the download stop point to support the process of resuming download upon the next visit of a Kiosk.

Subsequently the user s PMP comes within P2P range of the clientele PMP that has previously received the media content as depicted back at . Alternatively clientele PMP can serve as an intermediary node in an ad hoc network to extend the range of the kiosk C . The PMPs share content lists including selections desired and content available for delivery as depicted at . In response to a request to complete delivery of the selected media content the clientele PMP transmits the remaining portion of the selection to the user s PMP as depicted at . The kiosk C can be delivering or receiving media content from other devices simultaneously or sequentially as depicted at .

The kiosk C can have additional selections that are locally available that are advertised peer to peer to the user s PMP for example an updated catalog reflecting annotations for what is locally available can be provided as depicted at . When the PMP is within network communication a report of completed delivery of the selected media content is made such as to kiosk C as depicted at that is relayed to the CDS central controller which in turn generates a bill credit report as depicted at that can credit clientele PMP for assisting in the delivery of the media content. With the media content delivered the user s PMP can play the media content as depicted at which can be an integral player or an external device.

With reference to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for a mobile device e.g. PMP to participate in a content delivery system CDS . Preferences are established as depicted at which can be dictated by device limitations download time trade offs with image compression quality user preferences subscription rates for bandwidth consumed etc. In block the mobile device can receive information pertaining to user preferences CDS authentication subscription keys etc. especially in instances where services are established wholly or in part via another communication channel such as a home workstation.

In block a determination is made as to whether movement of the mobile device is sensed. If so sleep cycle block can be adjusted for detecting a kiosk or similar access point or access node for requesting and receiving media content. In some aspects the mobile device tracks its own location for reporting or internal use block . For example the mobile device can remember past sessions or have a location cross reference that enable a determination that a kiosk coverage area is approach block . If so the sleep cycle can also be adjusted block or beacon initiated to expedite session initiation. The beacon for example can be a longer range but limited data rate control signal for negotiating session parameters so that the data transmission makes efficient use of a short duration of time within range for full data communication.

In an illustrative implementation a power saving mode of the mobile device thus includes waking up at predetermined time which can comprise a synchronized time for avoiding collisions or missing a beacon signal. Alternatively one party such as the AP provides a carrier beacon signal of sufficient duration and repetition that a relatively short waking period by the mobile device suffices for listening for coverage areas. As a further alternative the AP can have a sufficiently long listening period e.g. continuously that a very brief beacon signal from the mobile device during a waking period is sufficient for locating identifying or synchronizing to the sleep cycle of the mobile device for the AP to initiate a communication session.

In block a determination is made as to whether a wireless AP is available. If so authentication occurs in block . The CDS network entity can be updated on any selection requests or fulfillment that were made on the mobile device while out of network communication block . The mobile device can receive at least a portion of requested content that is cached or stored by the wireless AP kiosk in block . If in block the kiosk has requested content from the mobile device then in block the requested content can be uploaded.

If at block a kiosk wireless AP was not available a further determination can be made at block whether a P2P wireless connection is possible to another subscriber mobile device or to an ad hoc network that has a node for a kiosk. If so list of available content can be exchanged block and requests for and delivery of at least a portion of priority content can be made block .

If at block no P2P was available then location can be updated block beacon settings updated block and sleep cycle adjusted or complied with block with processing returning to block for continued monitoring.

before or after full receipt of selected media content the mobile device catalogs in block the content received including verifying data integrity and applicability of DRM decryption keys for playback. Participation of various entities in the delivery can be logged for credit billing purposes. In block for instances of partial delivery the content that is received can be merged into a form suitable for playback in block which can entail concatenating and decrypting. In some aspects in block a determination is made as to whether a home network connection is available which if so enables archiving content at block for playback on external devices or protecting against data loss.

With reference to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for a kiosk wireless access point to participate in a content delivery system. Remotely or at the kiosk a characterization of clientele at a location can be determined such as by receiving demographic information from the users analyzing content transactions manually input characteristics from anecdotal experience or user requests etc. in block . The kiosk can pull media content for expected future clientele block .

The kiosk can sense and report clientele within the coverage area block . For example the number of nonparticipating wireless capable mobile devices can yield marketing data as to the effectiveness of subscription campaigns. Presence of a particular device identifier can be used to deduce a pattern of behavior whether a subscriber or not. Subscribers who are sensed but who have not made a selection for media content can identify opportunities for further advertising to the subscribers.

In block the kiosk receives media pushed from the network for an expected mobile device. For example the trajectory of the mobile device has been predicted based on recent encounters with other access points or the behavior indicates impending arrival within a time frame suitable for prepositioning media content.

In block the kiosk maintains ad hoc network connection to distant devices as well as maintaining an AP wireless network to deliver advertisements and selected media content. In block in addition to advertising to subscribers the kiosk can advantageously transmit an advertisement to wireless capable devices that are not yet subscribers regarding the available media content cached for immediate delivery.

In block a determination is made as to whether a mobile device has made a request for media content. If so the mobile device is authenticated in block . This authentication could be made offline based on a local subscriber database or made online by coordinating with the network CDS block . Distribution among a plurality of mobile devices is managed by queuing transmission block . Optimal queuing can be achieved in one aspect by transferring at a reasonably maximum rate in which a first requester can receive content giving remaining bandwidth or awaiting completion of transmission before downloading content to a subsequent requester. Such optimization can be based at least in part upon link quality and channel bandwidth limitations to each mobile device. Queuing can also ration available air link bandwidth by satisfying a single request from each mobile device in turn before fulfilling a second request from one of the mobile devices. Optimizing transmission can also take into consideration link quality with each mobile device. For example certain devices may be given a lower priority or be ignored if the link quality is low so that an overall successful data delivery rate is achieved. In response to the request in block at least a portion of the identified selected content is transmitted to the mobile device. This transmission can be coordinated amongst a number of access points controlled by the kiosk in block to extend the session continuity over a coverage area. A determination is made in block whether the mobile device contains stored media content that is desired by the kiosk. If so a request is made in block and the upload is received in block . In some instances the mobile device could refuse in order to preserve battery power. In block the communication is lost. At least an approximation of the amount of media content transmitted for delivery is reported for referral credit in block . Thus it should be appreciated with the benefit of the present disclosure that the kiosk benefits from receiving media content by one or more types of transfers described above as being pushed or pulled with regard to the network CDS or being uploaded from a mobile device.

With reference to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for a network central controller to participate in a content delivery system. In block a subscriber database is maintained including those participating as mobile device for receiving media content as end users as well as kiosk vendors who act as intermediaries. In block location reports about mobile devices are tracked and updated. In block the content downloads are queued for kiosks based upon requests by the kiosks pass through requests from individual mobile devices characterization of past transactions or predictions based upon demographic data for a particular kiosk location. In block analysis of high traffic areas can identify locations that have potential for another vendor kiosk to expand the coverage area of the CDS as well as generating vendor revenue to warrant the infrastructure increase. In block a determination is made as to whether a particular transaction is overdue for completion. If so the network can schedule a backhaul network transmission to the mobile device or prioritize a download to kiosk queue to satisfy the delivery block . Periodically received transaction reports can be used to credit vendors and P2P deliveries to a kiosk or to a subscribing mobile device block . In addition the mobile device can be billed for downloads of the media content block .

What has been described above includes examples of the various aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the various aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the subject specification intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects. In this regard it will also be recognized that the various aspects include a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. To the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. Furthermore the term or as used in either the detailed description of the claims is meant to be a non exclusive or .

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems and methods may include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter have been described with reference to several flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described herein. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed herein are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Furthermore the one or more versions may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed aspects. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the disclosed aspects.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

It should be appreciated that any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

