---

title: Imaging of moving objects
abstract: A method of generating an image data set, describing an object, as the object moves in a scanning space, comprises: a) performing a plurality of scans of the scanning space each scan being arranged to generate a set of samples, each sample including a sample value of at least one parameter associated with a respective point in the scanning space, the plurality of scans generating sample sets relating to a plurality of different parameters; b) determining a mapping for each of the samples from the scanning space into an object space which is fixed relative to the object; and c) determining object space values for each of the parameters at each of a plurality of points in the object space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08842896&OS=08842896&RS=08842896
owner: Imperial Innovations Limited
number: 08842896
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20080502
---
The present invention relates to imaging and in particular medical imaging. More specifically it relates to the imaging of objects that are moving.

Imaging of moving objects eg organs in the chest and abdomen the heart moving joints is of increasing clinical and medical research interest. A common solution to this problem is to acquire multiple sets of motion frozen images each of which is reasonably motion free but which taken together do not form part of a consistent representation of the subject. For diagnostic purposes these motion frozen components may be sufficient but for quantitative analysis eg measuring structure volumes or tissue function it is necessary to generate a geometrically consistent set of data from all the motion frozen images in order to obtain reliable measurements of the quantitative parameters. This applies for example to medical imaging modalities including MRI CT PET SPECT and ultrasound. For MRI the imaging might be from one of the many methods that require multiple correctly aligned measurements in order to derive the quantitative parameters e.g diffusion imaging DWI or DTI functional MRI BOLD fMRI MRI relaxometry e.g T2 quantification from iron oxide contrast agents .

An especially challenging task is Foetal brain imaging by MRI which is attracting increasing interest because it offers excellent contrast and anatomical detail. However unpredictable foetal motion has led to the widespread use of single shot techniques that can freeze foetal motion for individual slices. This provides high quality anatomical slices but these are generally inconsistent with one another. We previously developed a method Snapshot images with Volume Reconstruction SVR for three dimensional 3D high resolution and high SNR in utero anatomical imaging of the foetal brain using dynamic scanning and image registration see refs. 1 3 . Fine structure of the in utero foetal brain is clearly revealed for the first time at millimetric resolution from all three dimensions and substantial SNR improvement is realized by having many individually acquired slices contribute to each voxel in the reconstructed image.

An even greater challenge is in utero Diffusion Weighted Imaging DWI . It is highly sensitive in detecting certain brain diseases such as hypoxic ischemia or periventricular leukomalacia see refs. 4 5 as well as for observing normal cerebral development. Preliminary trials see ref. 6 have been performed in which for a few relatively thick slices a b 0 reference together with 3 directions of diffusion weighted images were acquired within a maternal breath hold time e.g. 20 seconds. These early experiments relied on the chance event of the foetus remaining still for all 4 sets of images so that apparent diffusion coefficients ADC could be calculated.

Diffusion tensor imaging DTI offers the potential for More information than DWI and has been widely used in both adult 7 and neonatal studies 8 9 particularly for tractography studies. However DTI is even more challenging than DWI for foetal imaging because it requires a b 0 image and at least 6 diffusion images that are sensitized in non collinear directions for each slice studied. These extra images increase the minimum acquisition time so that the requirements for the maternal breath hold become more onerous. Without a maternal breath hold foetal motion combines with the mother s respiration to disrupt the spatial correspondence between component images required to calculate tensor properties. Moreover the added diffusion sensitizing gradients make the diffusion weighted images highly sensitive to even small amount of motion. This results in data that is frequently corrupted by in plane motion as well. Very recently Bui et al see ref. 10 reported diffusion tensor imaging with 6 non colinear directions with in plane resolution is 2.95 mm 1.09 mm and 5 mm slice thickness. The whole sequence took 53 second and the mother was sedated. Besides the ADC value they measured some Fractional Anisotropy FA values but without showing any FA maps.

The challenge of imaging subjects that cannot remain sufficiently still for conventional methods to be applicable is much more widespread than foetal imaging and includes subjects such as babies or children who may not be able to remain still and categories of patients who are unable to follow instructions or are subject to uncontrollable movements. Likewise the methods proposed are applicable to any other imaging protocol that requires multiple measurements to be combined. Example include functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging fMRI perfusion imaging dynamic contrast imaging magnetization transfer imaging quantitative T1 or T2 imaging temperature imaging and elastography as well as other modalities such as CT PET and ultrasound.

The present invention provides a method of generating an image data set describing an object as the object moves in a scanning space relative to a scanner the method comprising a performing a plurality of scans of the scanning space each scan being arranged to generate a set of samples each sample including a sample value of at least one parameter associated with a respective point in the scanning space the plurality of scans generating sample sets relating to a plurality of different parameters b determining a mapping for each of the samples from the scanning space into an object space which is fixed relative to the object and c determining object space values for each of the parameters at each of a plurality of points in the object space.

If the scanning space is considered to be defined by the scanner then movement of the object while the scanner is stationary or movement of the scanner while the object is stationary or indeed movement of both scanner and object will result in movement of the object relative to the scanner and relative to the scanner space.

The scan may be of many different types in particular tomographic scans including for example magnetic resonance imaging MRI functional MRI fMRI ultrasound relaxometry elastography contrast uptake magnetisation transfer imaging temperature mapping and perfusion imaging and also other modalities including ultrasound multiple 2D or 3D images from different transducer positions CT imaging of moving objects or for functional measurements such as perfusion PET CT imaging where the PET and CT image are acquired at separate times but require integration. The parameter will therefore depend on the type of scan. For example for MR relaxometry the parameter may be or be indicative of a relaxation time. For fMRI the parameter may be or may be indicative of magnetic susceptibility.

The different sampled parameters may have different control parameters associated with them. For example in diffusion weighted MRI scanning the different control parameters may be the different diffusion directions and the different sampled parameters may be the diffusion weighting coefficients in those different directions. Alternatively the different sampled parameters may have different state parameters associated with them. For example in fMRI scans where a subject is scanned in different states the different sampled parameters would be pixel intensity values for the same pixel when the subject is in the different states.

The points in object space may be arranged in a regular grid. The object space values may be determined by interpolation from the samples after the samples have been mapped into the object space. This is because the mapped samples will in general be irregularly spaced or scattered within the object space.

Each of the values may have a direction associated with it and the mapping may include a rotation for each of the samples. For example if the scans are diffusion weighted MRI scans the values may be diffusion weighted coefficients.

The object space values may be determined from the samples and the mapping using a linear process such as a matrix equation defining the relationship between the object space values the mapping and the samples. Where the samples are values of sample parameters having different control or state parameters associated with them the object space values may be determined from any one or more of the sample values the sample parameters the control or state parameters and the mapping. Preferably all of the sample data for an image is input into a single matrix equation which can be used to generate a complete image data set from all of the sample values for all of the parameters.

The step of determining a mapping may comprise registration of each of the sample sets with a reference data set. For example each of the scans may be arranged to scan a plurality of slices of the scanner space and each of the sample sets may comprise a plurality of sample slices each sample slice comprising a plurality of samples and being associated with one of the slices of scanner space. Each slice or group of slices is preferably acquired over a timescale small enough so that the object can be assumed to be stationary during the acquisition of the slice or group of slices. However movement of the object between acquisition of the slices or groups of slices is accounted for in the mapping.

The present invention further comprises a method of generating an image of an object the method comprising generating an image data set according to the method of the invention and generating an image from the data set.

The present invention still further provides a system for producing an image data set describing an object the system comprising an input arranged to receive a plurality of sets of samples each sample including a sample value of at least one parameter associated with a respective point in a scanning space the sets relating to a plurality of different parameters and processing means arranged to determining a mapping for each of the samples from the scanning space into an object space which is fixed relative to the object and determine object space values for each of the parameters at each of a plurality of points in the object space.

The present invention further provides a system for producing a dynamic image comprising a system according to the invention and a display wherein the processing means is arranged to control the display to produce a display from the image data set. The system may further comprise a scanner arranged to generate the sets of sample data.

The present invention further provides a data carrier carrying data arranged when run on a computer to make it perform the method of the invention.

The present invention extends the SVR technique so that it can be used for example in diffusion tensor imaging DTI of the in utero foetal brain. To achieve high resolution in all three dimensions for both non diffusion and diffusion weighted images of the foetal brain we have developed a complementary approach that uses dynamic EPI scanning without with added diffusion gradient to sample the spatial region containing the brain with multiple overlapping slices. Repeated sampling of slice planes makes it highly probable that every part of the foetal brain is sampled on a set of images that contain both non diffusion images and diffusion weighted images from at least 6 independent diffusion gradient directions even when there is significant motion. Image registration is then used to retrospectively align the images obtained based on the assumption that they represent a single rigid body undergoing an unknown motion. Having determined the correct location of each image in a self consistent anatomical space of the foetal brain a 3D b 0 volume is first reconstructed using the scattered data interpolation method described in the SVR method see ref. 3 . Alternatively least squares regression can be used to reconstitute the b 0 volume. Then we regard the measured voxel intensities from all the diffusion weighted slices as valid samples at known although irregularly spaced locations and under known diffusion gradient direction and use the Least Squares Regression LSQR method see ref. 11 or other suitable algorithm to reconstruct an optimal estimate of the 3 3 symmetrical diffusion tensor matrix for every voxel of the 3D foetal brain on a regular Cartesian voxel lattice. The estimated distribution of diffusion tensors can be used to assist the in the registration process by providing a forward model of the intensities in each individual diffusion weighted image taking into account the current best estimate of location and orientation of the direction of diffusion sensitization implied by this location. Once refined estimates of the positions of all the slices have been achieved a new reconstruction of the diffusion tensors can then be made.

Although having particular application in foetal scanning the present invention has wide application to perform diffusing tensor imaging and other types of multi parameter imaging on moving objects that can be assumed to have a constant shape particularly when there may be other objects in the field of view that undergo differential motion and or changes in shape. We have therefore tested the method in the general context of imaging the brains of subjects who cannot remain sufficiently still for conventional DTI examinations and used the method for other parameter map estimation such as in fMRI.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Following our previous method of acquiring T2 W anatomical data in one embodiment the invention is used for structures that can be treated as rigid bodies changing position and orientation during the examination but not changing in shape size or signal properties. We shalt take the brain as an exemplar of such structures. The scenario of interest involves motion that is fast enough to preclude conventional high resolution EPI that covers the entire foetal brain but slow enough to produce individual high quality 2D images both with and without diffusion gradient in practice a fraction of the diffusion weighted slice data is frequently damaged so this must also be accommodated . An example is illustrated in . Here the foetal brain is the rigid body and each acquired 2D diffusion weighted slices is an accurate sample of the anatomy being imaged although successive slices do not form a consistent representation. Note that the surrounding tissues of the mother s abdomen are also changing non rigidly in a way that is not necessarily correlated with the foetal motion. Working in the image domain it is possible to segment the anatomy of interest and separate it from the rest of the field of view. The acquired slices consist of voxels which have a measured intensity I X Y Z at prescribed positions in the scanner frame of reference 0 X Y Z . We now adopt a 3D Cartesian coordinate system x y z fixed relative to the anatomy of interest. This coordinate frame is moving relative to the scanner coordinate frame. The acquired voxel data are legitimate samples in but at unknown locations x y z . Because of the motion the samples I x y z are irregularly spaced in . Provided their locations can be determined and the samples are sufficiently dense throughout the region of interest in data interpolation can be used to generate a full representation on a regular Cartesian lattice i j k in . This much was also required for SVR of anatomical images. In the case of DTI data the individual diffusion weighted slices have different contrast both relative to the b 0 images and to each other because of the effects of varying the direction of sensitization on anisotropic tissues such as white matter tracts. This places requirements on the registration algorithm used to find the correct slice locations in 0. In addition the correct sensitization direction for each acquired slice must be maintained once it is correctly placed in the anatomical space. Successful reconstruction of a 3D representation of diffusion tensor matrix that can then be reformatted into any desired plane thus has 3 requirements 

1 Sufficient samples in to allow full representations of the structure that contains at least 6 independent diffusion directions as well as a non diffusion b 0 .

3 Reconstruction of the diffusion tensor matrix D on a regular sampled 3D space given the scattered irregularly spaced samples I x y z that are each associated with an appropriately oriented diffusion gradient direction.

We first consider the case of a static brain imaged with 2D slices. Within the individual slice plane the data is acquired in the Fourier domain with k space sampled at the Nyquist spacing for the desired field of view up to a maximum value that sets the in plane resolution. The images are strictly bandlimited. In the through slice direction the point spread function PSF is the slice profile which is approximately Gaussian for the single shot sequences used. Following Noll 12 and our previous discussion in 3 sampling at intervals of about half the full width at half maximum FWHM of the slice profile is required. We therefore adopt a strategy of imaging with slices separated by H 0.5 FWHM. It is then logical to regard H as the nominal resolution length used for reconstruction in the slice direction.

Since the objective is to produce a 3D image volume we choose imaging parameters that result in approximately isotropic resolution. Neglecting effects of T2 decay during the EPI readout the acquired in plane PSF is a Sin c function which has FWHM of the central peak equal to 1.2 times the acquired pixel resolution L and the first zero crossings are separated by 2 L. Ideally to achieve isotropical 3D PSF in both in plane and through slice direction the slice separation H should be set as 0.6 L and the slice thickness is 2 H. However thin slice thickness will result in low SNR especially when the diffusion sensitization gradient is on. On balance in what follows we generally set H 0.75 L L depending on the maturity of foetal brain. The less mature the foetal brain is the thinner the slice thickness is set. Thus the 3D PSF is anisotropic with a central peak that is slightly narrower in the in plane direction but is more localized in the slice selection direction. The sampling strategy ensures full sampling in all 3 dimensions and the effective maximum spectral content is approximately equal in all directions although the k space filtering is likely to be more pronounced in the slice select direction.

Although only 6 independent diffusion directions are required to reconstruct the symmetric diffusion tensor matrix D it is well known that using more non collinear diffusion directions increases the accuracy of diffusion tensor fitting 13 . Moreover as suggested by Chang 14 increasing diffusion gradient directions will lead to more robust tensor fitting than using the minimum 6 diffusion gradient directions only while repeating the whole set of acquisition several times. Therefore 15 diffusion directions is adopted in this embodiment.

In the proposed application the brain to be imaged may move between individual slice acquisitions. This causes uneven slice samples when viewed in the anatomical reference frame and is likely to result in violation of the Nyquist sampling criterion at some locations. To avoid this problem the target volume in is repeatedly imaged by simply looping through all slice positions so that in the absence of motion each location under different diffusion gradients is sampled multiple times. We refer to each complete set of slices spanning for the entire set of diffusion weighted images under different diffusion gradient direction plus one non diffusion weighted image as a loop. The number of loops required depends on the motion. In these experiments we used 3 4 loops each with 15 non linear diffusion directions subject to the acceptability of the patients.

A self consistent 3D b 0 image V0 is first reconstructed using method described in 1 3 . Then motion correction to determine the transformation that maps from laboratory coordinates X Y Z to anatomy coordinates x y z for each diffusion weighted slice is preformed by registering each of them to the b 0 volume in a multi time scale hierarchical way with normalized mutual information NMI as the cost function.

The data is first divided into temporally contiguous blocks each containing multiple slices that together provide full coverage of the volume of X Y Z of interest for one respective diffusion direction i.e. 1 stack of either no diffusion or diffusion weighted image from each loop . Neglecting subject motion these slice blocks are treated as 3D volumes and registered to the 3D b 0 volume V0 using rigid body transformations.

Once the data is aligned the time scale is then reduced so the data is divided into sub packages that are temporally contiguous although the slices in each sub package may not be spatially contiguous. These sub packages are each registered to V0. The registration process involves moving the sub package with V0 held fixed in space. When the transformations T 0 of all sub packages have been determined the time scale is then reduced again and the process repeated until each slice is treated in isolation.

The method requires individual 2D slices to be registered to a 3D volume. This is a difficult problem particularly in the premature brain which has less complex patterns of sulcation than adult brains. Accordingly a brute force search the slice stack to volume registration method was developed based on a multi start multi resolution approach using the Powell method to optimize each transformation parameter in turn see ref. 3 . When registering non diffusion weighted slices to its corresponding volume cross correlation is chosen as an appropriate cost function see ref. 15 because the data has consistent contrast properties. When registering diffusion weighted slices to the b 0 volume normalized mutual information is used because of different contrast types associated with diffusion weighted images with different diffusion gradient direction.

For the foetal data registration the initial range of angles tested was typically 18 to 18 degrees of rotation in all three directions to ensure that the possible motion of the foetus is covered. In later stages finer ranges of rotation can be accepted to accelerate registration as the starting estimate is known with increasing confidence. We used 9 to 9 degree of rotations for the second stage 6 to 6 degree rotations for the third and 4 to 4 degree rotations for the fourth. At the final single slice stage 2 to 2 degree rotations are used. Cubic Bspline interpolation is used at the final registration stage while at the previous stages trilinear interpolation is used.

Using an anatomic coordinate system fixed relative to the reconstructed b 0 image volume V0 and given acquired diffusion sensitization direction g rotation matrix R with respect to V0 and the corresponding intensity Iin V0 determined via cubic Bspline interpolation the measured diffusion intensity I can be determined by exp exp 1 Dand Dare the diffusion tensor matrix in laboratory and anatomic coordinates respectively. We can further convert the measured diffusion intensities to normalized logarithm values S using equation 2 to prepare for later linear tensor fitting. log 2 

Once aligned we treat the data set s as a whole as irregularly sampled with each voxel associated with an appropriately rotated diffusion direction and use all the data to estimate the diffusion tensor D on a regular grid. For each scattered point s we can use equation 3 to define its value where the are spatial coefficients associated with the diffusion tensor matrix Don the regular grids. Dis the diffusion tensor matrix associated with sin anatomy coordinate. 3 We can then reconstruct the scattered diffusion tensor to a regular grid by solving a huge matrix equation 4 diag 4 where is a vector containing values of measured intensity at all the scattered points Mis a matrix specifying rotations R Mcontains the diffusion gradient directions and Mis a spatial interpolation matrix. They are all sparse. D Dare 6 independent parameters of the diffusion tensor. We use the Sparse Equations and Least SQuares Regression LSQR method see ref. 11 to solve for sparse matrix D D and then calculate its eigenvalues to determine corresponding ADC and FA values. Nearest Neighbor interpolation is used here to estimate the spatial coefficient given dense sampling.

The 3 3 symmetric diffusion tensor matrix D should be positive definite i.e. all the three eigenvalues should be strictly positive. A further refinement using constraint minimization is performed to guarantee the positive definition of the diffusion matrix. This is achieved by reformatted the diffusion matrix with 3 eigenvalues together with 3 rotations to define its principle eigenvector and then performing a second least squares fit while constraining all eigenvalues to be positive.

Foetal brain images were acquired on a 1.5 T Philips Achieva scanner Best The Netherlands using a 5 channel torso array with a spin echo echo planar diffusion tensor sequence. Image matrix of 150 150 field of view of 300 mm acquired resolution 2 mm 2 mm and slice thickness 3 to 4 mm with half slice thickness i.e. 1.5 to 2 mm gap were used depending on the maturity of the foetus. 72 slices are used to cover the entire region of foetal brain. Slices were acquired in 2 packages and within each packages starting at one extreme end in an interleaved order i.e. 1 5 9 . . . 3 . . . 2 6 10 . . . 4 . . . to avoid slice cross talk by ensuring that for each slice the previously excited closest slices were separated by 4 H and sequentially acquired. We set the repeat time TR to be 12 s for each package to avoid spin history effects while TE is chosen to be the shortest possible 54 ms given b value 500 s mm2. The mother was free breathing during scanning and no sedation was used. Although parallel imaging methods e.g. SENSE see ref. 16 can be a powerful addition to many EPI based studies we found that changes in maternal position during free breathing foetal examination frequently resulted in reconstruction artifacts caused by a mismatch between the varying coil position and the previously acquired reference data. The EPI factor is 149 without any parallel imaging acceleration. In this study parallel imaging was not applied. Typical scanning time was 7 minutes for 15 diffusion directions. In addition test data was obtained from adult volunteers who either lay still or deliberately moved their head.

Eight foetuses were examined with gestational age between 24 and 34 weeks. Two were diagnosed from Ultrasound and conventional foetal MRI as normal while two had mild ventricular dilation two had agenesis of the corpus callosum one had mild unilateral ventricular dilation and one had destructive process possibly caused by a virus.

The foetal brain images were pre processed to isolate the region containing the head from the womb using a Semi automated segmentation method. We first segment one loop of the foetal brain by roughly tracing the edge of the head manually to exclude maternal tissues. For a foetal data set consisting of 72 slices the whole process takes around 20 minutes using ImageJ. The foetal brain is then extracted from all the other images using a registration based segmentation B3 . This segmentation is later refined by interleaving it with the registration process used to determine slice alignment allowing both registration and segmentation to be iteratively improved. All slices were inspected and the slices that were corrupted by in plane motion were excluded before registration and reconstruction.

A high resolution anatomical volume acquired with T2 W single short Turbo Spin Echo ssTSE dynamic sequence as described in SVR see ref. 3 was also reconstructed for comparison. They have 1.25 mm 1.25 mm in plane resolution 2.5 mm slice thickness and 1.25 mm slice gap with TE 110 ms TR 1000 ms and SENSE factor 2.

Images of adult brains acquired with spin echo EPI were used to test the accuracy of slice to volume registration for diffusion data and the subsequent reconstruction. Two datasets were acquired using the same diffusion tensor imaging protocol at 1.5 T but with a SENSE head coil. In one examination the subject remained as still as possible and four different sets of DTI data with 15 non collinear directions were acquired in a transverse orientation with in plane resolution 3 mm 3 mm slice thickness 3.6 mm and 1.8 mm slice gap. To closely simulate the foetal protocol SENSE was not used and TR was 8 seconds while TE was 55 ms which was the minimum for a b value 500 s mm. Each image set was angulated away from its standard plane by varying amounts up to 30 degrees to simulate the effects of variations in head position that would be caused by motion. One b 0 stack out of these 4 was chosen as the target volume. Every fourth slice from the other stacks including both b 0 and diffusion weighted images with different diffusion gradient directions i.e. 819 slice s from 63 stacks in total was extracted and treated in isolation providing equally spaced example slices that covered the majority of the brain. Each of the individual slices was registered to the target volume using slice to volume registration.

In a second set of experiments an adult volunteer deliberately moved about once per second including making head rotations up to 30 degree. Four loops of 15 direction DTI data were acquired. The protocol was identical to that used in the previous test. For comparison images were also acquired with the same protocol while the subject was still. Because of this intense motion and the high sensitivity to even small amount of motion of diffusion weighted imaging some slice images were found to be degraded by movement during the EPI acquisition itself. All the slices that were not corrupted by in plane motion were registered and reconstructed. The results were then compared to the gold standard volunteer stationary data to validate the method.

Registration accuracy for the adult data was assessed by visual comparison of the anatomy in the slices and the aligned volumes and directly compared with the gold standard volume to volume registration. For the moving DTI data reconstruction fidelity was assessed visually using difference images and by calculating the mean absolute difference and its standard deviation STD between the gold standard and the reconstruction for b 0 volume ADC and FA values. Moreover Region of Interest ROI measurement on both ADC and FA values are also performed.

The slice to volume registration algorithm correctly placed randomly selected slices into corresponding 3D volumes in all cases tested even when given no initial guess although a reasonable starting point allows use of a smaller search range dramatically accelerating the optimization process. 819 slices including both b 0 and diffusion weighted images with different diffusion gradient directions were tested in total. As shown in Table 1 when tested on adult data for which a ground truth could be known the rigid body transformation determined by 2D to 3D registration was in excellent agreement with the reference 3D to 3D registration using Image Registration Toolkit which we used as a gold standard since the same 2D slices were then registered as part of 3D volumes. It was found to be accurate to 0.81 mm STD 0.64 mm in translation and 0.5 deg STD 0.49 deg in rotation which is voxel accuracy given in plane resolution 3 mm 3 mm and slice thickness 3.6 mm. The anatomical correspondence was confirmed by detailed visual comparison.

A self consistent 3D b 0 image volume was first reconstructed using the SVR 3 method. As displayed in slice to volume registration has successfully corrected motion for each slice thus the reconstructed b 0 data is almost identical to the gold standard b 0 data that was acquired when the subject stayed still. As displayed in the reconstructed B0 data is almost identical to the gold standard bdata that was acquired when the subject stayed still. The standard error i.e. the square root of the residual mean square between the reconstructed volume and the gold standard is 3.6 . This makes an accurate target volume for registering diffusion slices.

After motion correction and fitting of the diffusion tensor to the resulting scattered data the reconstructed 3D ADC map shows clear consistency of ADC values. This contrasts with the corrupted ADC evaluation obtained without motion correction . . When compared to the gold standard ADC values of the same subject when scanned stationary standard error of 5.6 . Because of motion those two volumes are not perfectly aligned with each other therefore small amount of rotation and translation is added. The 3D FA map as displayed in is quite close to the gold standard displayed in as well and found to achieve a standard error of 6.7 in FA Value. Furthermore eight Regions of Interest ROI measurement including Genu of Corpus Callosum GCCe Splenium of Corpus Callosum SCC Posterior Limb of Internal Capsule PLIC Forceps major FC Anterior Limb of Internal Capsule ALIC Posterior region of Corona Radiate PCR Superior Longitudinal Fasciculus SLF and Superior region of Corona Radiate SCR on both ADC and FA values as displayed in were performed for detailed validation. The reconstructed ADC and FA values achieved excellent agreement with the gold standard subject still data in all 8 ROIs as listed in Table 2.

Although the very bottom part of the brain is less accurate because of a lack of data for six independent diffusion directions there the majority of the brain has achieved accurate reconstruction.

The method has been tested on eight foetal subjects with 3 4 loops of 15 direction DTI scans. All have been successfully reconstructed. shows data from a foetus of 26 weeks plus 5 days gestational age that had enlarged ventricles. It was scanned with 15 diffusion gradient directions and 4 loops of transverse data were acquired with 2 mm in plane resolution and 4 mm 2 mm slice separation slice thickness. shows data from a more mature foetus of 30 weeks gestational age. It was also scanned with 15 diffusion gradient directions and 3 loops of transverse data were acquired with the same spatial resolution. Almost of slices were corrupted because of extreme sensitivity to motion and so had to be excluded. The acquired slice data is not consistent in space and . Final reconstruction achieved 2 mm isotropic resolution in all three dimensions for b 0 image as well as ADC and FA maps. Successful reconstruction of the 3D b 0 image volume and makes an accurate target for registering the diffusion weighted slices. After motion correction the reconstructed 3D ADC map and show clearly consistent appearances of ADC values. Different tissue types can clearly be differentiated i.e. WM CSF and cortex on the FA map and . The FA calculation is less robust than ADC and the results show greater fluctuations. A high resolution anatomical volume acquired with T2 W single short Turbo Spin Echo ssTSE dynamic sequence was also reconstructed for comparison in and with 1.25 mm cubic resolution.

Region of Interest ROI analysis was performed on all foetal subjects. ADC measurements could be made for all 8 subjects while 5 of them had FA maps of sufficient quality for measurement. shows the locations of the sampled regions which included the Left and Right Central Centrum Semiovale Lt Rt central CSO Left and Right Frontal White Matter Lt Rt FrontalWM Left and Right Thalamus Lt Rt Thalamus Left and Right Posterior Limb of Internal Capsule Lt Rt PLIC and Genu of Corpus Callosum Genu . The measured values obtained for each subject are listed in Table 3 and 4. Measurements were also made in the splenium of the corpus callosum of 4 subjects when this was clearly visible.

ADC values depend on water content which is known to decrease with increasing gestational age but also with the cellular content of the tissue. Immature white matter contains bands of migrating cells which may modulate the ADC as they migrate through the hemispheres possibly disrupting simple direct relationship between gestational age and ADC values. Anisotropy increases in white matter with increasing gestational age resulting in increasing FA values. However in preterm newborns with white matter injury these maturational trends in FA may be diminished or even reversed 17 . The ADC and FA values of our foetal data especially the normal ones are in consistency with the corresponding ex utero measurements published in 17 .

It will be appreciated that the methods described above can be performed using a conventional scanner and any suitable processor for processing the data. Typically the processor will form part of a computer which also includes a display on which the image generated from the scan data can be displayed. However rather than being displayed the scan data may be analysed using suitable algorithms.

We have described in this embodiment a novel methodology for perform diffusion tensor imaging on moving subjects by combining registered 2D slices from sequential diffusion weighted scans. The method requires that the anatomy in question is not changing shape or size or diffusion properties and is moving at a rate that allows EPI images to be acquired. It has been performed successfully on adults and especially on foetuses for which no conventional diffusion tensor imaging method is currently available. Fine structure on both ADC and FA map indicating microstructural development of the in utero foetal brain is clearly revealed for the first time. The registration process was found to be robust in the presence of noise so that thinner higher resolution slice data can be used without loss of accuracy in the position estimation.

The other key feature of the method is diffusion tensor matrix reconstruction to combine scattered data from realigned slices into a regular grid for the final reconstructed images. The data may contain samples that are spatially very close together and because these may come from separately acquired slices they are subject to uncorrelated noise as well as different diffusion gradient directions. This places a duel requirement on the accuracy of registration correct alignment of samples in the anatomical space and correct prescription for the direction of diffusion sensitization in anatomical space. The FA calculation places particular emphasis on this combined need and the fact that the results proved to be both plausible anatomically and numerically consistent in magnitude provides support for the conclusion that sufficient precision has been achieved. The internal consistency of the adult test data provides further supporting evidence.

Following ref 18 the signal intensity for single shot spin echo EPI will be determined by Equation 5 1 5 is the effective spin density Tis the echo time Tis the repeat time. Tshould be at least 3 time of spin lattice relaxation time Tto guarantee the fully recover of longitudinal magnetization to prevent any signal loss. It is well understood that the neonatal brain has higher water content 92 95 than the adult brain 82 85 and so the Tof neonate is greater 19 . These values decrease with increasing age and adult values are reached in early childhood. The Tof the foetal CSF at 1.5 T is assumed to be as long as it of the distilled water i.e. 4 s therefore Tis set to be 12 second. Although less efficient because of the long T our experiment shows shorter Tthan that will have residual spin history effect i.e. there is intensity modulation between adjacent slices that belongs to different packages. Beside Longer Twill also improve the signal to noise ratio SNR which is especially beneficial for in utero foetal DTI.

As mentioned before parallel imaging techniques that rely on pre acquired reference data is not used in in utero foetal DTI because of the mother changing her position that leads to a mismatch between the varying coil position and the previously acquired reference data. However this will increase the total number of phase encoding for each 2D slice and thus increase Tthat result in reduced SNR. Moreover collecting data over a long sampling time will cause the term e to significantly modulate the signal amplitude. As illustrated in ref 17 the blur or extra effect on spatial resolution is in direct ratio to the number of phase encoding. And this may limit the achievable actual in plane resolution of foetal DTI although we haven t found any noticeable resolution loss at 2 mm 2 mm.

In general as shown in and the diffusion weighted images of in utero foetal brain have much poorer SNR compared to those of adult or neonatal brain imaged with SENSE head coil. When imaging postnatal brain the patient can often manage to stay still during scanning or sedation is used for neonatal scan. Therefore parallel imaging techniques e.g. SENSE can be used to accelerate the scanning and reduce the EPI factor. Moreover for postnatal scanning the total FOV can be set just enough to cover the entire brain i.e. 230 mm while for the foetal scanning the FOV should be enlarged to 300 mm to cover the maternal abdomen which will also increase the phase encoding steps i.e. the EPI factor. Thus Tof postnatal brain DTI can set to be much shorter to achieve higher SNR as well as reduced T effect resulting in minimum resolution loss. Furthermore in some cases the foetal brain is embedded deeply in the womb that is far away from the torso coil. This will also result in signal loss because the sensitivity of this kind of surface coil will decrease with increasing distance.

Geometrical distortion is also a much less severe a problem because B0 homogeneous is improved largely in the in utero environment where only minimum air tissue interfaces exist. Moreover shimming over small region containing foetal brain only e.g. 100 mm cubic volume will be more effective.

The price of the benefits offered by this technique is increased scan time to allow multiple loops to be acquired. In the case of foetal scanning since no breath hold or sedation is required this has been found to be easily tolerated by the subjects scanned so far. For adult and pediatric subjects the method offers a capability to obtain high quality diffusion tensor reconstruction even when the subject is unable to cooperate with the examination and may be moving by many millimeters or turning by many degrees during the acquisition period. Validation using adult data has been performed to verify that the results obtained are consistent with the known ground truth and the reconstruction faithful.

The capability to observe the foetal brain in utero using both anatomical images and diffusion tensor images of high resolution and high contrast provides a new opportunity to study the developing human brain and will allow direct comparison between pre term and post partum brains for the first time. This is likely not only to be a very valuable clinical tool but it will also empower studies employing volumetric morphometric and tractographical approaches that may lead to new insights into the process of human brain development. It will also allow detailed comparison between foetuses and preterm neonates at the same gestational age imaged with the same sequences and processed in the same way. This may be an essential tool for further understanding the effects of prematurity on brain development.

In summary this method provides a robust technique for performing diffusion tensor imaging on moving structures that behave as rigid bodies and so do not change size or shape. Brain imaging in uncooperative subjects is a clear application with foetal imaging as a particularly exciting exemplar. It may also be feasible to extend the method to work with less constrained realignment strategies such as to allow correction of slice distortion. An appealing feature of the method is that it can readily accommodate scenarios where there is differential change within the field of view. In these kinds of applications efficient segmentation methods as well as selecting motion corrupted slices will be required to avoid extensive manual intervention in what is otherwise a completely automatic process.

Referring to in one embodiment of the system according to the invention a scanner has a scanning space in which a subject can be placed to perform a scan. A processing system is arranged to receive scan data in the form of sample sets from the scanner to process the sample sets and produce an image on a display . While the processing system is shown as connected to the scanner this does not always need to be the case and the processor can receive the sample sets indirectly from the scanner.

