---

title: Dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of interactive voice response systems
abstract: Methods, apparatus, and products are disclosed for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of interactive voice response (‘IVR’) systems through an IVR directory service that include: providing a description of a web services publication interface for the IVR directory service; receiving, on behalf of one or more IVR systems, web services publication requests through the publication interface; determining, in response to the web services publication requests, directory information for each IVR system requesting publication; adding the directory information for each IVR system to an IVR system directory; generating a voice mode user interface to reflect the directory information for each IVR system added to the IVR system directory; and interacting, using the voice mode user interface, with a caller to identify a particular IVR system in dependence upon the IVR system directory and query information provided by the caller and to connect the caller with the identified IVR system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229081&OS=08229081&RS=08229081
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08229081
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080424
---
The field of the invention is data processing or more specifically methods apparatus and products for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of interactive voice response IVR systems.

Despite the pervasiveness of other types of devices telephones remain the most popular devices through which people obtain information when they are on the go. As a result more and more service providers are adding or enhancing IVR systems for their businesses to provide customers with twenty four hour automated access to information and services. To access an IVR system however callers first need to know the phone number to dial that allows the caller to establish a connection with the IVR system. Unfortunately the phone numbers for many IVR systems are unknown to callers especially new or recently deployed IVR systems. Furthermore typical telephones only store a relatively small number of frequently dialed phone numbers and therefore may not contain the phone number for the IVR system desired by a caller.

Methods apparatus and products are generally disclosed for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of interactive voice response IVR systems that include providing by an IVR directory service a description of a web services publication interface for the IVR directory service receiving by the IVR directory service on behalf of one or more IVR systems requesting publication web services publication requests through the web services publication interface for the IVR directory service determining by the IVR directory service in response to the web services publication requests directory information for each IVR system requesting publication adding by the IVR directory service the directory information for each IVR system to an IVR system directory generating by the IVR directory service a voice mode user interface to reflect the directory information for each IVR system added to the IVR system directory and interacting by the IVR directory service using the voice mode user interface with a caller to identify a particular IVR system in dependence upon the IVR system directory and query information provided by the caller and to connect the caller with the identified IVR system.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods apparatus and products for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . sets forth a line drawing illustrating an exemplary system for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary system of includes IVR servers having installed upon them IVR systems . Specifically IVR server has installed upon it IVR system IVR server has installed upon it IVR system and IVR server has installed upon it IVR system .

Each IVR system of is a set of software components that operate together to interact with a caller through a telephone using speech and touch tones. Each IVR system has a phone number that a caller may use to establish a communications connection through the caller s telephone. Upon connecting to a caller each IVR system may provide the caller with certain information or prompt the caller to provide the IVR system with information using pre recorded or dynamically generated speech. The IVR system may then receiving responses from the caller in the form of touch tones generated from the caller s operation of the phone s keypad or in the form of speech provided by the caller. When the caller provides speech the IVR system may then utilize a speech engine to recognize and interpret the caller s speech. The interaction between an IVR system and a caller is generally governed by the IVR system s call flow. Older IVR systems often utilized proprietary programming or scripting languages to generate the system s call flow but the call flow for modern IVR systems are typically structured similar to web pages using Voice Extensible Markup Language VoiceXML Speech Application Language Tags SALT Telera s Extensible Markup Language T XML language and so on. Example applications of IVR systems may include telephone banking televoting credit card transactions telephone investing teleshopping and so on. Such IVR systems are useful because these systems scale well to handle large call volumes and provide twenty four hour seven day a week access to information and services.

The exemplary system of includes an IVR directory server having installed upon it an IVR directory service and a speech engine . The IVR directory service is a specialized IVR system that provides callers with directory information of other IVR systems registered with the IVR directory service . The IVR directory service of includes a set of computer program instructions for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention. The IVR directory service of operates generally for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention as follows The IVR directory service provides a description of a web services publication interface for the IVR directory service that the IVR systems may use to register with the IVR directory service . On behalf of the IVR systems requesting publication the IVR directory service receives web services publication requests through the web services publication interface for the IVR directory service . In response to the web services publication requests the IVR directory service then determines directory information for each IVR system requesting publication. The IVR directory service adds the directory information for each IVR system to an IVR system directory . The IVR directory service generates a voice mode user interface to reflect the directory information for each IVR system added to the IVR system directory. Using the voice mode user interface the IVR directory service interacts with a caller to identify a particular IVR system in dependence upon the IVR system directory and query information provided by the caller and to connect the caller with the identified IVR system.

The IVR directory service of includes an IVR browser and an IVR directory application . The IVR browser of renders voice dialogs to provide an interface between the IVR directory service and the caller . In addition the IVR browser generates speech for prompting the caller using speech engine and recognizing speech input from the caller using the speech engine and grammars . The voice dialogs of are documents that specify the call flow defining the interaction between the IVR directory server and the caller . The voice dialogs may be implemented using VoiceXML SALT T XML or in any other language as will occur to those of skill in the art.

In the example of the speech engine is a functional module typically a software module although it may include specialized hardware also that does the work of recognizing and generating or synthesizing human speech. The speech engine implements speech recognition by use of a further module referred to in this specification as an automated speech recognition ASR engine and the speech engine carries out speech synthesis by use of a further module referred to in this specification as a text to speech TTS engine.

The grammars of communicate to the speech engine the words and sequences of words eligible for speech recognition during the interactions specified by the voice dialogs . Grammars useful in dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention may be expressed in any format supported by any speech engine including for example the Java Speech Grammar Format JSGF the format of the W3C Speech Recognition Grammar Specification SRGS the Augmented Backus Naur Format ABNF from the IETF s RFC2234 in the form of a stochastic grammar as described in the W3C s Stochastic Language Models N Gram Specification and in other grammar formats as may occur to those of skill in the art. Grammars typically operate as elements of dialogs such as for example a VoiceXML or an X V. A grammar s definition may be expressed in line in a dialog. Or the grammar may be implemented externally in a separate grammar document and referenced from with a dialog with a URI. Here is an example of a grammar expressed in JSFG 

In this example the elements named and are rules of the grammar. Rules are a combination of a rule name and an expansion of a rule that advises a speech engine or a voice interpreter which words presently can be recognized. In this example expansion includes conjunction and disjunction and the vertical bars mean or. A speech engine or a voice interpreter processes the rules in sequence first then then . The rule accepts for recognition call or phone or telephone plus that is in conjunction with whatever is returned from the rule and the rule. The rule accepts bob or martha or joe or pete or chris or john or artoush or tom and the rule accepts today or this afternoon or tomorrow or next week. The command grammar as a whole matches utterances like these for example 

The IVR directory application of is a component of the IVR directory service that provides a web services publication interface through which other IVR systems may dynamically register their directory information with the IVR directory service . The IVR directory application provides the description of the web services publication interface by publishing the web services publication interface description in a Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI registry hosted by the UDDI server . A UDDI registry is a platform independent XML based registry for organizations worldwide to list themselves on the Internet. UDDI is an open industry initiative promulgated by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards OASIS enabling organizations to publish service listings discover each other and define how the services or software applications interact over the Internet. The UDDI registry is designed to be interrogated by SOAP messages and to provide access to Web Services Description Language WSDL documents describing the protocol bindings and message formats required to interact with a web service listed in the UDDI registry. In this manner any of the IVR systems of may retrieve the web services publication interface description for the IVR directory service from the UDDI registry on the server . The term SOAP refers to a protocol promulgated by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C for exchanging XML based messages over computer networks typically using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Secure HTTP HTTPS .

In the example of the web services publication interface description of may be implemented as a Web Services Description Language WSDL document. The WSDL specification provides a model for describing a web service s interface as collections of network endpoints or ports. A port is defined by associating a network address with a reusable binding and a collection of ports define a service. Messages in a WSDL document are abstract descriptions of the data being exchanged and port types are abstract collections of supported operations. The concrete protocol and data format specifications for a particular port type constitutes a reusable binding where the messages and operations are then bound to a concrete network protocol and message format. In such a manner any one of the IVR systems may utilize the web services publication interface description to invoke the publication service provided by the IVR directory service typically by exchanging SOAP messages with the IVR directory service .

In addition to providing a web services interface through which the IVR systems may provide directory information to the IVR directory service the IVR directory application also generates the voice dialogs and the grammar based on the directory information stored in the IVR system directory . Typically as the IVR system directory is updated as IVR systems are added or removed from the IVR system directory the IVR directory application creates or modifies the voice dialogs and the grammar that the IVR browser processes during interactions with callers. The IVR directory application of may be implemented using Java C C C Perl or any other programming language as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary system of the voice dialogs the grammars the publication interface description and the IVR system directory are stored in a repository operatively coupled to the IVR directory service . The repository may be implemented as a database stored locally on the IVR directory server or remotely stored and accessed through a network. The IVR directory application may be operatively coupled to such an exemplary repository through an application programming interface API exposed by a database management system DBMS such as for example an API provided by the Open Database Connectivity ODBC specification the Java database connectivity JDBC specification and so on.

In the example of the caller accesses the IVR directory service and the IVR systems using a Time Division Multiplexing TDM phone or a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phone . The TDM phone of is a telephone that operates using a circuit switched network . The circuit switched network of establishes a fixed communications channel between nodes before any communications between the nodes takes place. The circuit switched network of may be implemented as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN ISDN B channel network Circuit Switched Data CSD and High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD network in cellular systems such as GSM an X.21 network or other as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The VoIP phone is a telephone that operates using a packet switched network such as networks of . VoIP is a generic term for routing speech over an IP based data communications network. The speech data flows over a general purpose packet switched data communications network instead of traditional dedicated circuit switched voice transmission lines. Protocols used to carry voice signals over the IP data communications network are commonly referred to as Voice over IP or VoIP protocols. VoIP traffic may be deployed on any IP data communications network including data communications networks lacking a connection to the rest of the Internet for instance on a private building wide local area data communications network or LAN. 

Many protocols are used to effect VoIP. The two most popular types of VoIP are effected with the IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP and the ITU s protocol known as H.323. SIP clients use TCP and UDP port 5060 to connect to SIP servers. SIP itself is used to set up and tear down calls for speech transmission. VoIP with SIP then uses RTP for transmitting the actual encoded speech. Similarly H.323 is an umbrella recommendation from the standards branch of the International Telecommunications Union that defines protocols to provide audio visual communication sessions on any packet data communications network.

In the example of all of the servers and devices are connected together through various communications networks . The IVR directory server the IVR server the VoIP phone and the UDDI server connect to the packet switched network through a wireline connection. The IVR servers connect to the packet switched network through wireline connections. The packet switched networks connect through a gateway . The TDM phone connects to the circuit switch network through a wireless connection although in many embodiments a TDM phone may utilize a wireline connection. The circuit switch network connects to the packet switch networks through gateways respectively which provide translation between protocols used in the circuit switch network such as PSTN V5 and protocols used in the packet switch networks such as SIP.

The packet switched networks of are composed of a plurality of computers that function as data communications routers switches or gateways connected for data communications with packet switching protocols. Such packet switched networks may be implemented with optical connections wireline connections or with wireless connections. Such a data communications network may include intranets internets local area data communications networks LANs and wide area data communications networks WANs . Such packet switched networks may implement for example 

The circuit switched network of is composed of a plurality of devices that function as exchange components switches antennas base stations components and connected for communications in a circuit switched network . Such circuit switched networks may be implemented with optical connections wireline connections or with wireless connections. Such circuit switched networks may implement the V5.1 and V5.2 protocols along with other as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The arrangement of the devices and the networks making up the exemplary system illustrated in are for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to various embodiments of the present invention may include additional servers routers switches gateways other devices and peer to peer architectures or others not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art. Networks in such data processing systems may support many protocols in addition to those noted above. Various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

Dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with one or more computers that is automated computing machinery. For further explanation therefore sets forth a block diagram of automated computing machinery comprising an example of an IVR directory server for use in dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention. The IVR directory server of includes at least one processor or CPU as well as random access memory RAM which is connected through a high speed memory bus and bus adapter to processor and to other components of the IVR directory server.

Stored in RAM of is an IVR directory service that is a specialized IVR system that provides callers with directory information of other IVR systems registered with the IVR directory service . The IVR directory service includes an IVR browser and an IVR directory application that function in the manner described above. The IVR directory service includes a set of IVR directory server program instructions capable of dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention. The signaling module operates generally for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention by providing a description of a web services publication interface for the IVR directory service receiving on behalf of one or more IVR systems requesting publication web services publication requests through the web services publication interface for the IVR directory service determining in response to the web services publication requests directory information for each IVR system requesting publication adding the directory information for each IVR system to an IVR system directory generating a voice mode user interface to reflect the directory information for each IVR system added to the IVR system directory and interacting using the voice mode user interface with a caller to identify a particular IVR system in dependence upon the IVR system directory and query information provided by the caller and to connect the caller with the identified IVR system. As described above the voice mode user interface is typically implemented using voice dialogs and grammars specified in the voice dialogs .

Also stored in RAM is a speech engine . The speech engine of is a functional module typically a software module although it may include specialized hardware also that does the work of recognizing and generating human speech. The speech engine includes an ASR engine for speech recognition and a text to speech TTS engine for generating speech. The speech engine also includes grammars lexicons and language specific acoustic models .

The acoustic models associate speech waveform data representing recorded pronunciations of speech with textual representations of those pronunciations which are referred to as phonemes. The speech waveform data may be implemented as a Speech Feature Vector SFV that may be represented for example by the first twelve or thirteen Fourier or frequency domain components of a sample of digitized speech waveform. Accordingly the acoustic models may be implemented as data structures or tables in a database for example that associates these SFVs with phonemes representing to the extent that it is practically feasible to do so all pronunciations of all the words in various human languages each language having a separate acoustic model . The lexicons are associations of words in text form with phonemes representing pronunciations of each word the lexicon effectively identifies words that are capable of recognition by an ASR engine. Each language has a separate lexicon .

The grammars of communicate to the ASR engine the words and sequences of words that currently may be recognized. For precise understanding readers will distinguish the purpose of the grammar and the purpose of the lexicon.

The lexicon associates with phonemes all the words that the ASR engine can recognize. The grammar communicates the words currently eligible for recognition. The set of words currently eligible for recognition and the set of words capable of recognition may or may not be the same.

Also stored in RAM is an operating system . Operating systems useful in voice servers according to embodiments of the present invention include UNIX Linux Microsoft Vista IBM s AIX IBM s i5 OS and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Operating system speech engine grammar analysis module grammar reliability table and background noises in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also for example on a disk drive .

IVR directory server of includes bus adapter a computer hardware component that contains drive electronics for high speed buses the front side bus the video bus and the memory bus as well as drive electronics for the slower expansion bus . Examples of bus adapters useful in IVR directory servers according to embodiments of the present invention include the Intel Northbridge the Intel Memory Controller Hub the Intel Southbridge and the Intel I O Controller Hub. Examples of expansion buses useful in IVR directory servers according to embodiments of the present invention include Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI and PCI Extended PCI X bus as well as PCI Express PCIe point to point expansion architectures and others.

IVR directory server of includes disk drive adapter coupled through expansion bus and bus adapter to processor and other components of the IVR directory server . Disk drive adapter connects non volatile data storage to the IVR directory server in the form of disk drive . Disk drive adapters useful in IVR directory servers include Integrated Drive Electronics IDE adapters Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapters and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition non volatile computer memory may be implemented for an IVR directory server as an optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory so called EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example IVR directory server of includes one or more input output I O adapters . I O adapters in IVR directory servers implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to display devices such as computer display screens as well as user input from user input devices such as keyboards and mice. The example IVR directory server of includes a video adapter which is an example of an I O adapter specially designed for graphic output to a display device such as a display screen or computer monitor. Video adapter is connected to processor through a high speed video bus bus adapter and the front side bus which is also a high speed bus.

The exemplary IVR directory server of includes a communications adapter for data communications with other computer and for data communications with a data communications network . Such data communications may be carried out serially through RS 232 connections through external buses such as a Universal Serial Bus USB through data communications data communications networks such as IP data communications networks and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a data communications network. Examples of communications adapters useful for testing a grammar used in speech recognition for reliability in a plurality of operating environments having different background noise according to embodiments of the present invention include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired data communications network communications and 802.11 adapters for wireless data communications network communications.

For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention. Dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention is carried out by an IVR directory service . The IVR directory service of may operate on a single computer or be distributed across multiple computers.

The method of includes providing by an IVR directory service a description of a web services publication interface for the IVR directory service . The IVR directory service may provide a description of a web services publication interface for the IVR directory service by publishing the web services publication interface description in a UDDI registry for other IVR systems to obtain. The web services publication interface description of represents a web services interface provided by the IVR directory service that allows the web service components of other systems to publish directory information with the IVR directory service . For example consider the following exemplary web services publication interface description 

The exemplary web services publication interface description above informs other web services that an IVR411Service which is an implementation of an IVR directory service according to embodiments of the present application is provided at the URI http some.domain.com Test services IVR411. The exemplary web services publication interface description above then goes on to describe the type of messages that the IVR411Service can receive from web service components of other IVR systems that want to publish directory information using the IVR411Service. Using web services message described in the example above a web service component of an IVR system may register that IVR system s company name phone number products and keywords with the IVR411Service.

The method of also includes receiving by the IVR directory service on behalf of one or more IVR systems requesting publication web services publication requests through the web services publication interface for the IVR directory service . Each web services publication request of represents a request to publish directory information for a particular IVR system. In the method of the IVR directory service may receive web services publication requests on behalf of one or more IVR systems from web services components of the IVR systems themselves or from third party web service components instructed by the IVR system providers to register the IVR systems with the IVR directory service . The IVR directory service may receive web services publication requests through the web services publication interface for the IVR directory service according to the method of by receiving a SOAP message formatted and transmitted according to the web services publication interface description .

The method of includes determining by the IVR directory service in response to the web services publication requests directory information for each IVR system requesting publication. The directory information of represents lookup information connection information description information or any other information for an IVR system that the IVR directory service may use to provide caller s information or access concerning the IVR system. The lookup information may include for example keywords or products identifiers used to lookup an organizations IVR system. The connection information may include for example the telephone number to an organization s IVR system or the connection data needed to transfer the caller from the IVR directory service directly to the desired IVR system. The description information may include for example the organization s name that provides the IVR system or the name of the IVR system itself.

The IVR directory service may determine directory information for each IVR system according to the method of by retrieving the directory information for each IVR system from the web services publication requests themselves. That is when an IVR system requests that the IVR directory service publish the IVR system the IVR system may embedded all of the IVR system s directory information in the publication request for that IVR system. In some other embodiments the IVR system may not provide directory information in one of the publication requests . Rather the IVR directory service may determine directory information for each IVR system according to the method of by performing a web services exchange with each IVR system requesting publication to obtain the directory information for each IVR system. In such embodiments the publication requests may specify an interface for the IVR system perhaps through use of a WSDL document that the IVR directory service can use to obtain the directory information for the IVR system. The web services exchange may be carried out using SOAP messages.

The method of includes adding by the IVR directory service the directory information for each IVR system to an IVR system directory . The IVR directory service may add the directory information for each IVR system to an IVR system directory according to the method of by associating the directory information provided by each IVR system with the IVR system that provided the directory information in the IVR system directory . In the example of the IVR system directory is implemented using one or more tables capable of associating an IVR system with directory information for that IVR system. Each record of the exemplary IVR system directory includes an IVR system identifier field and three directory information fields . The IVR system identifier field specifies a particular IVR system published by the IVR directory service . The three directory information fields specify directory information for the associated IVR system.

The method of also includes generating by the IVR directory service a voice mode user interface to reflect the directory information for each IVR system added to the IVR system directory . The voice mode user interface represents a set of instructions allow the IVR directory service to provide and receive information from a caller using speech and keypad touch tones. The IVR directory service may generate the voice mode user interface according to the method of by creating one or more IVR voice dialogs in dependence upon the directory information in the IVR system directory . The IVR voice dialogs of are documents that specify the call flow defining the interaction between the IVR directory server and a caller. The voice dialogs may be implemented using VoiceXML SALT T XML or in any other language as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition the IVR directory service may generate the voice mode user interface according to the method of by creating one or more IVR grammars in dependence upon the directory information in the IVR system directory . The grammars of communicate to a speech engine the words and sequences of words eligible for speech recognition during the interactions specified by the voice dialogs .

The IVR directory service may create the voice dialogs and the grammars by querying the IVR system directory using some predefined queries and incorporating the query results in a one or more voice dialog templates and one or more grammar templates. The queries may be implemented using a Structured Query Language SQL such as for example SQL 2006 promulgated by the International Organization for Standardization ISO . Consider for example that the IVR system directory contains the following exemplary directory information 

Based on the exemplary IVR system directory above in Table 1 the IVR directory service may perform queries and incorporate the query results into a voice dialog template to form the following exemplary voice dialog 

In a similar manner based on the exemplary IVR system directory above in Table 1 the IVR directory service may perform queries and incorporate the query results into a voice dialog template to form the following exemplary grammars used in the exemplary dialog above 

Readers will note that generating a voice mode user interface to reflect the directory information for each IVR system in the IVR system directory according to embodiments of the present invention advantageously allows an IVR system to dynamically publish itself to callers that utilize the IVR directory service . That is the voice mode user interface of the IVR directory service is updated shortly after the directory information for a new IVR system is added to the directory rather than having to wait extended periods of time such as weeks or months before callers are able to discover or use the IVR system s directory information. Reader will further note that the exemplary voice dialog and the exemplary grammars above are for explanation only and not for limitation.

The method of includes interacting by the IVR directory service using the voice mode user interface with a caller to identify a particular IVR system in dependence upon the IVR system directory and query information provided by the caller and to connect the caller with the identified IVR system. The IVR directory service may interact with a caller using the voice mode user interface to identify a particular IVR system according to the method of by rendering the voice dialogs and grammars receiving speech input from the caller and utilizing speech recognition results of the caller s speech input to query the IVR system directory . Continuing with the exemplary voice dialog and exemplary grammars above consider following use case describing and interaction between the IVR directory service and a caller using the voice mode user interface to identify a particular IVR system. Rendering the exemplary voice dialog above would provide the user with the following initial prompt 

The IVR directory service utilizes a speech engine to identify the caller s response as key word product or company. When the caller s response to the initial prompt is key word the IVR directory service renders this subsequent prompt 

The IVR directory service uses the exemplary keyword grammar and a speech engine to identify the caller s response. If the caller s response is electronics then the IVR directory service queries the IVR system directory for records having electronics as a keyword. Because ACME electronics is the only business associated with the keyword electronics the IVR directory service transfers the caller to the IVR system for ACME Electronics using the telephone number associated with ACME Electronics in the directory . If the caller s response is food then the IVR directory service renders the following prompt to the caller 

The IVR directory service then uses the exemplary food keyword grammar and a speech engine to identify the caller s response. If the caller s response is Mom and Pop s Pizza then the IVR directory service queries the IVR system directory for the phone number associated with Mom and Pop s Pizza and transfers the caller to the IVR system for Mom and Pop s Pizza using that telephone number. If the caller s response is Western Steakhouse then the IVR directory service queries the IVR system directory for the phone number associated with Western Steakhouse and transfers the caller to the IVR system for Western Steakhouse using that telephone number.

When the caller s response to the initial prompt of Do you want to search by key word product or company name is product the IVR directory service renders this subsequent prompt 

The IVR directory service uses the exemplary product grammar and a speech engine to identify the caller s response. The IVR directory service then queries the IVR system directory for the companies associated with the products specified by the caller. If the caller s response is television or radio then the IVR directory service queries the IVR system directory and determines that only ACME Electronics is associated with television or radio. Accordingly the IVR directory service transfers the caller to the IVR system for ACME Electronics using the telephone number associated with ACME Electronics in the directory . If the caller s response is pizza oven then the IVR directory service queries the IVR system directory and determines that only Mom and Pop s Pizza is associated with pizza oven. Accordingly the IVR directory service transfers the caller to the IVR system for Mom and Pop s Pizza using the telephone number associated with Mom and Pop s Pizza in the directory .

When the caller s response to the initial prompt of Do you want to search by key word product or company name is company name the IVR directory service renders this subsequent prompt 

The IVR directory service uses the exemplary company grammar and a speech engine to identify the caller s response. When the caller s response is ACME Electronics the IVR directory service queries the IVR directory repository for the telephone number associated with ACME Electronics and transfers the caller to the IVR system of ACME Electronics using that telephone number. When the caller s response is Mom and Pop s Pizza the IVR directory service queries the IVR directory repository for the telephone number associated with Mom and Pop s Pizza and transfers the caller to the IVR system of Mom and Pop s Pizza using that telephone number. When the caller s response is Western Steakhouse the IVR directory service queries the IVR directory repository for the telephone number associated with Western Steakhouse and transfers the caller to the IVR system of Western Steakhouse using that telephone number. Readers will note that the exemplary use case above is for explanation only and not for limitation.

The description with reference to explains dynamic publishing of directory information according to embodiments of the present invention as the directory information for IVR systems is added to the IVR system repository using web services. In addition dynamic publishing of directory information according to embodiments of the present invention may also be carried out as the IVR system repository is updated with updated directory information for IVR systems using web services. For example the telephone number for an IVR system may have been changed. For further explanation sets forth a flow chart illustrating a further exemplary method of dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems according to embodiments of the present invention.

The method of includes receiving by the IVR directory service on behalf of one of the IVR systems a web services update request . The web services update request of represents a request to updated directory information published for a particular IVR system. The format of the web services update request may be specified in a WSDL document published by the IVR directory service in a UDDI registry in a manner similar to the web services publication requests described above. In the method of the IVR directory service may receive a web services update request on behalf of one of the IVR systems as a SOAP message from web services components of the IVR systems themselves or from third party web service components instructed by the IVR system providers to register the IVR systems with the IVR directory service .

The method of also includes determining by the IVR directory service in response to the web services update request updated directory information for the IVR system. The updated directory information of represents updated lookup information updated connection information updated description information or any other updated information for an IVR system. The IVR directory service may determine the updated directory information for the IVR system according to the method of by retrieving the updated directory information for the IVR system from the web services update requests itself. In some other embodiments the IVR directory service may determine the updated directory information for the IVR system according to the method of by performing a web services exchange with the IVR system issuing the update request to obtain the updated directory information .

The method of includes updating by the IVR directory service the IVR system directory with the updated directory information for the IVR system. The IVR directory service may update the IVR system directory with the updated directory information according to the method of by associating the updated directory information with the IVR system that requesting the update in the IVR system directory . In the example of the IVR system directory is implemented using one or more tables capable of associating an IVR system with directory information for that IVR system. Each record of the exemplary IVR system directory includes an IVR system identifier field and three directory information fields . The IVR system identifier field specifies a particular IVR system published by the IVR directory service . The three directory information fields specify directory information for the associated IVR system.

The method of also includes generating by the IVR directory service an updated voice mode user interface to reflect the updated IVR system directory with the updated directory information for the IVR system. The updated voice mode user interface represents a set of instructions that allow the IVR directory service to provide and receive information from a caller using speech and keypad touch tones based on the updated directory information provided by the IVR system. The IVR directory service may generate the updated voice mode user interface according to the method of by creating one or more IVR voice dialogs in dependence upon the updated directory information in the IVR system directory . In addition the IVR directory service may generate the updated voice mode user interface according to the method of by creating one or more IVR grammars in dependence upon the updated directory information in the IVR system directory .

Readers will note that generating an updated voice mode user interface to reflect the updated IVR system directory with the updated directory information according to embodiments of the present invention advantageously allows an IVR system to dynamically update publication information provided by the IVR directory server to callers. That is the voice mode user interface of the IVR directory service is updated shortly after the directory is updated with updated directory information for an IVR system rather than having to wait extended periods of time such as weeks or months before callers are able to discover or use the IVR system s updated directory information.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system for dynamically publishing directory information for a plurality of IVR systems. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed on computer readable media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such computer readable media may be transmission media or recordable media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of recordable media include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of transmission media include telephone networks for voice communications and digital data communications networks such as for example Ethernets and networks that communicate with the Internet Protocol and the World Wide Web. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize immediately that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

