---

title: Augmenting online content with additional content relevant to user interest
abstract: A method of gathering information relevant to the interests of a user includes receiving activity history associated with the user from a network data source, where the activity history includes a description of a user action initiated by the user, generating a first metadata item based upon the activity history; and storing the first metadata item as user profile information associated with the user in a user profile database. Generating the first metadata item may include extracting text from the activity history and generating the first metadata item based upon the text. The activity history may include a description of a user action. The method may further include providing a server plugin for performing a second method in response to access of web content on a server by the user, the second method comprising retrieving a content object from the server, determining if the first metadata item is relevant to the content object, adding a web link to the web content as a reference to the content object in response to the content object being relevant to the first metadata item; and providing the web content to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152722&OS=09152722&RS=09152722
owner: YAHOO! INC.
number: 09152722
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081231
---
The present application claims priority to Indian Patent Application No. 1798 CHE 2008 entitled AUGMENTING ONLINE CONTENT WITH ADDITIONAL CONTENT RELEVANT TO USER INTERESTS filed in India on Jul. 22 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to aggregation of content from multiple sources and more particularly to augmenting online content with additional content that is relevant to interests of particular users.

Aggregation and cross referencing of online content hosted on multiple web sites such as Flickr del.icio.us YouTube and Facebook to provide a more unified comprehensive view of a user s online content such as blog posts web site bookmarks videos and social networking information are known in the art. Lifestreaming refers to a process of collecting and storing information about a person s activities and life by aggregating online content that the person creates and consumes such as blog posts social network updates online photos and the like.

Blogs also known as web logs present content generated by a user. Blogs may cover a variety of subjects and content entries are presented in reverse chronological order thereby giving higher visibility to the latest updates. As new posts are added the older posts become less prominent. The older posts may for example disappear from the main page of the web site to a visitor but since most users view only the most visible i.e. latest content older posts receive few hits.

Lifestreaming enables aggregation of user activities from multiple web sites. Users provide their usernames for web sites such as Flickr YouTube Last.fm Netflix Twitter del.icio.us Digg and the like to lifestreaming providers such as MyBlogLog FriendFeed Plaxo and the like. Such lifestreaming providers crawl web sites and aggregate the latest updates.

Knowledge about recent user activities across different services is not presently used to find posts of interest for a visitor. Such user activity knowledge increases the relevance significantly and enables websites to personalize content for particular users.

MyBlogLog is a network service for use by bloggers i.e. users who maintain and author content on web log sites. A blogger may register with MyBlogLog to create a blog community for the blogger s blogs. Other users may subscribe to the blog community to receive updates from the blogs in the community. When the blogger adds content to a blog the content may be syndicated i.e. provided automatically to other members of the community.

Existing techniques attempt to increase blog traffic e.g. the number of readers and or the time spent reading by each reader by showing the most popular posts or content ordinarily select interesting posts to display based upon information about all visitors to a web site or blog. However these existing techniques do not accurately select content relevant to the interests of individual visitors.

Techniques are disclosed for finding web site content such as blog posts which may be interesting or relevant to a user visiting the blog site. Blog posts may be for example textual content such as discussions personal opinions recommendations links to other web sites and multimedia content such as photographs videos and the like. The technique of lifestreaming is used to identify likely relevant posts using metadata associated with a user where the metadata is found in user generated content that may be spread across multiple web sites such as social networking sites. Online content such as blog posts may be relevant to user interests. Lifestreaming information is used to locate the blog posts and other online content that is relevant to a web site visitor.

A plug in widget is provided that may be included by the blog web sites to show blog posts relevant to the interests of users who visit the blog site. The plug in widget may thereby encourage visiting users to visit the web site e.g. read the web site s content for longer time periods. The plug in widget may also expose older blog posts thereby extending the life of blog posts. The plugin may add information such as relevant links to a web page that references the plugin. The plugin retrieves the interests of a user visiting the web page from a user profile and find relevant information such as web links to related pages to be displayed e.g. as a list of relevant links on the web page.

In general in a first aspect the invention features a method of gathering information relevant to the interests of a user. The method includes receiving activity history associated with the user from a network data source wherein the activity history includes a description of a user action and the action is initiated by the user generating a first metadata item based upon the activity history and storing the first metadata item as user profile information associated with the user in a user profile database.

Embodiments of the invention may include one or more of the following features. Generating the first metadata item may include extracting text from the activity history and generating the first metadata item based upon the text. Generating the first metadata item based upon the text may include using a stemming method to generate a stem word based upon the text and generating the first metadata item based upon the stem word. Generating the first metadata item based upon the text may include using a taxonomical lookup to generate a taxonomical category of the text and generating the first metadata item based upon the taxonomical category. Generating the first metadata item based upon the taxonomical category may include generating the first metadata item wherein the first metadata item comprises a name of the taxonomical category. Generating the first metadata item based upon the taxonomical category may include generating the first metadata item wherein the first metadata item comprises a name of an object in the taxonomical category. The first metadata item may be a tag.

The activity history may include a description of a user action in which the user creates online content provides online content to the network data source shares a web link with another user applies a tag to another user receives online content or a combination thereof. The method may further include generating a profile vector for the user based upon their activity history and storing the profile vector in the user profile. The profile vector may be based upon a content object the first metadata object or a combination thereof.

The method may further include providing a server plugin the plugin for performing a second method in response to access of web content on a server by the user the second method including retrieving the user profile from the user profile database retrieving a content object from the server on which the plugin is located determining if the first metadata item is relevant to the content object adding a web link to the web content as a reference to the content object in response to the content object being relevant to the first metadata item and providing the web content to the user. Determining if the first metadata item is relevant to the content object may include generating a content vector based upon the content object generating a profile vector based upon the first metadata item and performing a similarity operation to compare the content vector to the profile vector. The content vector may include numeric weight values based upon the content object and the profile vector may include numeric weight values based upon the first metadata item.

Determining if the first metadata item is relevant to the content object may include retrieving a second metadata item associated with the content object from the server on which the plugin is located wherein the first metadata item is relevant to the content object in response to the first metadata item being relevant to the second metadata item. Determining if the first metadata item is relevant to the content object may include generating a relevance score based upon a similarity of the first metadata item to the content object wherein the first metadata item is relevant to the content object in response to the relevance score being at least a threshold value. The threshold value may be based upon a type of the activity history.

Determining if the first metadata item is relevant to the content object may include generating a recency score based upon recency in time of a date on which the first metadata item is accessed and of a date on which the content object is accessed wherein the first metadata item is relevant to the content object in response to the recency score being at least a threshold value. The content object may be a web page. Storing the first metadata item as user profile information may be in response to a number of times the first metadata item is generated in a defined time period being greater than a threshold value. The threshold value may be based upon a type of the activity history. The method may further include removing the first metadata item from the user profile database in response to a number of times the first metadata item is generated in a defined time period being less than a threshold value.

The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of particular applications and their requirements. Various modifications to the embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Moreover in the following description numerous details are set forth for the purpose of explanation. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the invention might be practiced without the use of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the description of the invention with unnecessary detail. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

While the invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments and illustrative figures those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments or figures described. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the operations of the various embodiments may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof as appropriate. For example some processes can be carried out using processors or other digital circuitry under the control of software firmware or hard wired logic. The term logic herein refers to fixed hardware programmable logic and or an appropriate combination thereof as would be recognized by one skilled in the art to carry out the recited functions. Software and firmware can be stored on computer readable media. Some other processes can be implemented using analog circuitry as is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Additionally memory or other storage as well as communication components may be employed in embodiments of the invention.

Metadata e.g. tags or the like may be associated with the user. The metadata may for example describe the interests of the user. For example a user may access the network data source at some point and establish an account on the network data source . Subsequently when the user accesses other network data sources such as a web server via a client computer and the network data source e.g. a web site provided by a web server s includes a link to a widget plugin the widget plugin is downloaded to the client computer and scans the content received by the client computer from the web server to identify relevant content that may be of interest to the user based upon similarities or relationships between content objects and the user tags . The content objects and or the content may be received by the client computer via a computer network using a protocol such as for example RSS Really Simple Syndication in which case the content objects are received from the web server . In one example the web server may be owned and or hosted by any publisher. Content tags may also be received e.g. via RSS from the web server . In another example the content tags may be determined using content analysis of the content objects e.g. by selecting common search terms or words of particular types e.g. names of people or places from the content objects or by other content analysis methods known to those skilled in the art.

As an example if the user is interested in movies then the user name that corresponds to the user may be associated with the tag movies in the user profile . In one example the metadata is harvested i.e. determined by analyzing the user s web activities i.e. sites and pages that the user visits actions that the user performs at those sites information that the user submits content that the user views and the like. A user profile that includes tags associated with the user is generated based upon the user s activities . The user activities are descriptions of the user s activities. The user activities e.g. representations of the activities that the user performs include without limitation an activity name or identifier data associated with the activity attributes or parameters of the activity such as time date and the network data source e.g. URL of a web site . In one example the activities are online actions explicitly initiated by the user e.g. actions such as requesting a web page providing information in response to user input to the web browser and more application specific activities such as sharing a web page sending a particular type of text message or creating a particular type of object on a web site e.g. creating a user profile or posting a blog entry . An activity explicitly initiated by i.e. performed by the user is for example an activity that occurs as a result of a user action such as clicking a mouse button entering text selecting a menu item or the like. Activities may include e.g. requesting viewing or creating web content. In one example activities explicitly initiated by the user are actions commands or events that occur and or appear in the user interface of the web browser . As a user performs actions relevant to interests tags associated with those interests are appended to the user profile . For example if a user performs multiple actions relevant to the movie Mission Impossible e.g. viewing articles and or other content objects that include the name Mission Impossible the tag Mission Impossible may be automatically associated with the user . Subsequently when the user visits a web site that has content relevant to the movie Mission Impossible e.g. articles about the movie and or articles that include the name of the movie then that relevant content or links to the relevant content may be displayed to the user.

Content vectors or other information based on the user tags may also be stored in the user profile in addition to or in place of the user tags . In other examples other information may be associated with the user in the user profile in addition to or in place of the user tags . Such other information may include content object s viewed by the user or portions attributes or properties of the content object s or other information based on the content object s such as content vector s generated as described elsewhere herein.

As another example a user may have accounts on multiple network data sources e.g. Flickr for photo sharing YouTube for video viewing Last.fm for listening to music and so on. The user profile is generated based upon content and actions associated with the user on those online services. When the user visits a third party web site that has a link to a widget plugin the client computer downloads and or executes the widget plugin which uses the user profile to generate and present additional content that is likely relevant to the user s interests. In one example the widget plugin is downloaded to the client computer from the web server via the Internet. Such network communication e.g. via the Internet may occur between components of as shown by network communication paths . A downloaded widget plugin not shown includes essentially the same computer program code as the widget plugin provided by the web server e.g. as downloadable computer program code instructions but executes on the client computer . The widget plugin may be installed on any web server and may be referenced by a link in content objects e.g. a web pages hosted by the web server. The content objects downloaded to the client computer are shown on the client computer as content objects which are essentially the same as the content objects but located on a different computer.

Harvesting logic crawls e.g. queries the network data source web site identified by the user account information to obtain metadata from the user generated content and tags associated with the user generated content and available on the network data source web site . The metadata may be for example tags e.g. text strings or topic names e.g. movies or other attributes of the content objects or portions of the content objects or the like. In another example the harvesting logic may retrieve at least a portion of the user generated content . Tags may be associated with a particular user on a web site by the user e.g. as part of a personal profile that a user creates to describe her interests or by other users e.g. by the user s friends. The other user may vote on the tags to order the tags from most relevant to least relevant. In another example the tags may be associated with a particular user by an automated process that identifies tags that are likely to be of interest to the user based upon content associated with or created by the user.

In one example a client computer hosts a web browser that displays content which includes content objects . The web browser receives the content objects from the web server . The content objects may be viewed by a user using the web browser executing on the client computer . The content objects may be in Hypertext Markup Language HTML format or in some other computer readable format. Each content object may also include a plugin widget link e.g. an HTML link which refers to a widget plugin . The link causes the web browser to display a widget user interface not shown in association with the content on a display device of the client computer . The link refers to the widget plugin which generates the widget user interface. The widget plugin is for example a browser plugin implemented as computer program code in a language such as C C Java JavaScript or the like. The widget plugin communicates with the user interests server via a network e.g. the Internet. In other examples the user interests server may be located on the web server or on the client computer . The components of the network data source the user interests server the client computer and the web server may be divided differently among computer s than shown in . shows an exemplary display view of the widget user interface. The display view is displayed for example to a user on a display screen of the client computer .

In one example the widget plugin identifies content of interest to the user by identifying the user and retrieving the user profile of the user from the database of the user interests server . The widget plugin may be implemented using for example as a WordPress plugin and may access MyBlogLog Application Programming Interfaces APIs which allow for storage and retrieval profile and metadata information associated with users. In one example the widget runs in a sidebar of a website as a result of the web site owner or administrator placing appropriate JavaScript code in a template or HTML file of the web site content on the web server . If a registered MyBlogLog user visits the widget enabled web site a cookie is placed on the client computer . Subsequently the JavaScript code provided by the web site interacts with the cookie and adds an Avatar sidebar for the widget . In one example if a user is not a MyBlogLog member the system uses attributes of the past or some other number of MyBlogLog members who have visited and makes an educated guess as to what topics or tags are relevant to the unregistered user. In one example relevance of content to user characteristics such as metadata and or activity history is determined by generating a content vector and a user profile vector and comparing the vectors using a similarity detection technique such as cosine similarity detection. The content vector may be based upon tags associated with the content object or upon at least a portion of the content object itself e.g. the content or upon values derived from the content object e.g. statistical information derived from the content object. Other similarity detection techniques include Jaccard similarity bi gram similarity min hash similarity and the like. The profile vector may be based on metadata such as tags and or activity history associated with a user as described below.

As an example of a cosine similarity detection technique suppose there is a sentence in which the word idea occurs 10 times patent occurs 5 times and activity does not occur. This sentence may be represented as a point 10 5 0 in 3 dimensional space. The content vector is a line joining the origin 0 0 0 and the point 10 5 0 . Suppose there is another sentence in which idea occurs 8 times patent does not occur and activity occurs 3 times. The content vector of this second sentence is a line joining the origin and 8 0 3 . The cosine similarity of the content vectors of the two sentences is the cosine of the angle between these two lines. The smaller the distance between the lines the greater the overall similarity between the lines. Cosine similarity increases as the number of words that two content objects have in common increases and as the frequency of words in the first object becomes closer to the frequency of the same words in the second object.

A profile vector generator creates a profile vector based on metadata and or activity history associated with a user profile . The tags are associated with the user as a consequence of being present in the user s profile . The particular tags are determined based on for example a user s web browsing behavior and content that the user uploads to the Internet. The activity history may include for example web browsing activity online content that the person creates and consumes such as blog posts social network updates online photos and the like. Each of the tags may be for example a text string of one or more words and may correspond to a topic or subject or may have any other meaning implied by the tag. Creators and consumers of content such as articles may tag the content with one or more tags and any type of content on a web site may have an associated tag or topic.

In one aspect the profile vector represents the interests of the user who corresponds to the user profile . The metadata may be for example semantic tags which are words or multi word phrases that indicate an interest of the user e.g. the tag movies may be included in a user s metadata to indicate that the user that corresponds to the user profile is interested in movies. User may apply tags to their own online identities or other users may apply tags to a user. The tags applied to a web site may be stored on the web site or Users may vote for a tag e.g. to show their interest in the topic or thing represented by the tag. In one example the tag is displayed in a size e.g. font size which is proportional to the number of people who have voted for the tag.

Furthermore in one example a vector space model is used to represent each content object e.g. blog post news item or other item of online content as a content vector of term weight pairs in a multi dimensional space. The value of each dimension is generated by a content vector generator that executes on the web server . The content vector generator generates the value of each dimension based on the words occurring in the content object . The content vector may be stored on the web server .

In one example the web server also includes a relevance score generator which determines a relevance of content objects e.g. blog posts to the user profile and in one aspect to the user profile metadata by applying cosine similarity or another similarity detection technique to compare the content vector of each content object to the profile vector . As introduced above the content vector may be based upon tags associated with the content object or upon at least a portion of the content object itself e.g. the content or upon values derived from the content object e.g. statistical information derived from the content object. Other similarity detection techniques include Jaccard similarity bi gram similarity min hash similarity and the like. In another example the relevance score may also be calculated by comparing explicit tags associated with the content objects to user profile metadata e.g. by using string comparison operations to identify similar or identical tags e.g. strings of characters present in both the content objects and the metadata . A determination may then be made of whether the metadata is relevant to the content object s by comparing the relevance score to a threshold value e.g. on a scale of 0 to 100 a threshold relevance score of 75 may be established based upon techniques known to those skilled in the art such as search result ranking techniques. Then if a relevance score is at least the threshold value e.g. at least 75 the metadata is considered relevant to the content object s .

In one example the identified tags may then be used to identify content or configure personalization settings. For example heavy activity around the tag Mets would result in personalization of a site to favor content and advertising associated with the baseball team Mets instead of for example generic front page content. As another example if a first blog post has the tag Soccer and a second blog post has the tags Soccer and David Beckham and a user is tagged with both Soccer and David Beckham then the second blog post has greater relevance to the user s aggregate metadata than the first blog post. In another example the widget plugin which executes on the client computer may invoke the relevance score generator to generate the relevance score in response to a user receiving a web page from the web server and the score may be based upon a comparison of a user s activity history to content objects and or tags . The widget plugin may include the relevance score generator so that the relevance score generator executes on the client computer .

Furthermore a recency score may be calculated by a recency score generator for each of the content objects e.g. blog posts based on the age of the content object . Content objects that are less recent may be considered less relevant. In one example the recency score may be used independently of the relevance score to determine if a metadata item e.g. a user tag is relevant to a content object. In this example a threshold recency value may be established and if the recency score of a particular metadata item is greater than the threshold value then the metadata item is considered relevant to that user. The threshold recency value may be based upon a configuration parameter or based upon a user preference that indicates the time period of the user s interest in the content object. The threshold value may also be based upon information about the average duration of user interest in content objects.

In another example a weighted sum of recency and relevance scores may be used to find the most interesting of the content objects for the user . The weights for each recency and relevance score may be modified by the publisher of the content as a configuration option to more strongly favor relevancy or recency in determining the interestingness of a post to the user . If the interestingness of a particular post is greater than a threshold value or is one of a threshold number of highest ranking interestingness values for the user on the blog then the blog post is deemed of interest to the user and is in one example displayed on the content or web page e.g. in the user s browser as one of a threshold number of blog entries that are likely to be relevant to the content objects .

As an example suppose that two users Alice and Bob are residents of San Francisco. Bob frequently blogs i.e. writes blog entries on his blog site about Web 2.0 and social media and sometimes about San Francisco. Alice recently posted a video on the YouTube video sharing web site and photos on the Flickr photo sharing web site both tagged San Francisco. Also Alice s profile on the LinkedIn social networking web site suggests that she is a doctor. Alice blogs about San Francisco medicines and related topics. Bob posted a comment in a recent post related to San Francisco on Alice s blog. The URL of Bob s blog was included in Bob s comment and Alice curiously clicked on the URL to find content of interest to her on Bob s blog. However most of Bob s recent posts are related to Web 2.0 with only some of Bob s older posts being related to San Francisco. The older posts are not shown on Bob s blog unless they are specifically requested e.g. by following web links to older posts or by searching for older posts that contain the words San Francisco. Alice does not see the older posts when she visits the main page of Bob s blog and consequently does not see any content of interest. The widget may be added to Bob s blog site to solve this problem. More specifically Bob s blog may include a plugin link in the blog content e.g. in an HTML page that contains the blog content. The plugin link causes the web site to display posts relevant to the visitor s interests. These relevant posts may be displayed for example on a side portion of the web page. The posts relevant to Alice s interests San Francisco are made more visible e.g. highlighted by the widget allowing Alice to quickly spot Bob s older San Francisco related posts that interest her.

In another example suppose that Netflix web site interfaces APIs are used to determine that Bob has a tendency to rent movies starring Tom Cruise. Furthermore Bob has been listening to songs from the movie Mission Impossible 3 on the Last.fm music site and has also recently rated a trailer of that movie as a favorite on the YouTube video site. Bob visits Alice s blog which includes movies and music reviews. Blog posts on Alice s blog that are relevant to movies that star Tom Cruise are highlighted and shown on Alice s blog by the widget in response to Bob visiting Alice s blog. As another example the widget may similarly highlight reviews of James Bond movies to another user Harry whose user profile indicates an interest in James Bond.

Additionally the metadata may be used by publishers other than bloggers to personalize the content for the visitors. Publishers providing content relevant to different subjects like news stories reviews etc. may highlight content that matches the user metadata derived from the user s lifestream.

A user s identified interests may change over time. In one example a decay threshold is applied to the user tag associations. The decay threshold indicates a minimum time duration after which a user tag association may be deleted if the user does not engage in any activities relevant to the tag during the time duration. For example if a user is associated with the tag Phish but the user stops listening to Phish music for several weeks then the association between the user and the Phish tag is deleted because the amount of time that has passed since the user engaged in any actions relevant to Phish is greater than the decay threshold. If a user uploads five photos tagged with Hawaii and listens to six songs tagged with Hawaii this week then the tag Hawaii will be associated with the user e.g. by storing the tag in the user s profile. If six months then pass in which the user has not engaged in any activities relevant to Hawaii and the decay threshold is less than six months then the Hawaii tag will be removed from the user s profile.

In one example the user interests server includes governing logic that imposes a minimum number of times that an association should be detected in another words a minimum number of times that an association between a particular user and a particular harvested metadata item e.g. tag should be attempted before an association will be established between the user and harvested tag . If the threshold is exceeded then the harvested tag is written to the user s profile to establish an association between the user and the tag . For example a threshold may specify that if a user listens to fifty songs by the band Phish then the tag Phish will be written to the user s profile. The threshold may be associated with a particular type of content object as well as with a particular user and or particular tag. As another example a threshold may specify that if a user selects or views ten blog posts that are tagged with the tag Phish then the tag Phish is to be associated with the user. A per tag threshold may specify that if a user listens to six songs by the band Metallica then the tag Metallica is to be associated with the user.

In one example expiration logic may remove a tag from the user profile in response to the age of the tag i.e. time since the tag was added to the user profile being greater than a maximum age threshold. For example if a user stops listening to Phish for twenty one days and the maximum age threshold is twenty days then the expiration logic removes the tag Phish from tags associated with the user .

Content presentation logic e.g. the widget plugin gathers metadata about a user and metadata about articles on the web site and presents the intersection i.e. common portions of the two sets of metadata in a widget user interface as for example a list of web links. A content object e.g. a link to a relevant web page may be presented to a user when the user opens i.e. retrieves a web page if a first tag associated with the content object is substantially equal to or is likely to be relevant to a second tag associated with the user. In other words if at least one of the variations of a tag associated with the content object matches at least one of the variations of a tag associated with the user then the content is considered likely to be relevant to the user and may be presented to the user.

In one example a first tag matches a second tag if the tags have the same value or can be normalized to the same value. Normalization may include for example converting letters to lowercase removing whitespace characters and the like. For example if a content object such as a video is associated with the tag action adventure and the tag action adventure is also associated with a user then that video may be presented to that user because the first tag associated with the content matches the second tag associated with the user by having the same value.

In one example a content object e.g. a web page blog post or the like may be presented to a user if the content object is likely to be relevant to the user e.g. relevant to a tag or activity history associated with the user. The determination of whether a content object is relevant to a user may be made by for example cosine similarity detection Jaccard similarity bi gram similarity min hash similarity and other methods known to those skilled in the art. The similarity detection techniques may be applied to attributes of the objects to the tags or to both. For example the text content of an object may be used to generate a content vector for the object. Properties or attributes of the content object such as category information type information size modification date access history and the like may also be used to generate a content vector for that object and the content vector may be used to compare the similarity of the object to other objects or to profile vectors associated with users to evaluate the relevance of the content object to another object or to a user respectively.

As introduced above in one example a content object e.g. a web page blog post or the like may be presented to a user if a first tag associated with the content object is not the same as but is likely to be relevant to a second tag associated with the user. The determination of whether a metadata item e.g. a tag is likely to be relevant to another metadata item e.g. another tag may be made by a defined procedure or method and may be based on for example the metadata items or tags themselves or a database of equivalent items tags or words and or the piece of content. The relevant relation may be extended transitively from the tag by finding relevant tags and or extended from the content by finding tags that are likely to be relevant to the content until the extensions from the tag and the extensions from the content reach a common value e.g. the same tag. A tag may therefore be found to be likely to be relevant to a content object even if the tag is not present in the content object. For example if a first tag art is mapped to a second tag artist by a stemming technique as described below and a content object contains the word Picasso s art then the tag artist may be identified as relevant to the content object by deriving the tag art from artist through stemming and by extracting the term art from the content object. Since the term art is present in both the tag and the content object the tag is relevant to the content object. The term likely is used to indicate that the relevant to relation is an approximation of a semantic relation. Two items may be found to be relevant to each other even if the average person would not consider them to be related or relevant to each other. However the technique for finding relevant items should attempt to minimize the number of such false positive relations. Other techniques for evaluating relevance are may be used e.g. using dictionaries tables of synonyms linguistic rules tables of semantically related words and the like to find words relevant to a given metadata item. Relevance may also be evaluated by generating numeric vectors based on content metadata and other information about users as described below.

As introduced above in one example tags relevant to a given piece of text or tag may be generated by a stemming technique as known to those skilled in the art. The stemming technique may be used to generate variations of a content object or of the first and or second tags where each such variation is treated as equivalent to the original text or tag for purposes of determining whether a content object should be presented to the user. Note that content objects and tags may both contain text so the techniques for generating variations of text may also be applied to content objects tags and other types of objects that include text. Stemming is used to generate morphological variants of tags where the variants have similar meanings and share a common root word. For example if a tag is music stemming may produce the variants musician and musical so that for example online content associated with the term musician will be considered to be relevant to a user associated with the tag music . Conversely online content associated with the term music will also be considered to be relevant to a user associated with the term musician . As another example given the word musician stemming may produce the variants music and musical . Accordingly online content associated with the term music will be considered to be relevant to a user associated with the term musician and vice versa.

In another example metadata items may be generated based upon a taxonomical category of the text or tag identified by a taxonomical lookup may be used to generate a taxonomical category e.g. by mapping the text to a directory of information categories. A metadata item e.g. a tag may then be generated based upon the taxonomical category. For example a directory may map the text bicycle to the category human powered which is a subcategory of the category transportation . In that example generating metadata items using the name s of each category produces the metadata items human powered and transportation . In another example metadata items may be generated based upon names of other objects in the category e.g. if the human powered category includes unicycle the metadata item unicycle is generated.

In another example a relation determination method may use a term extraction technique to generate alternate tags based upon text of the content object. Term extraction may be performed using for example a search term extraction method such as the Yahoo Term Extraction Web Service which provides a list of significant words or phrases extracted from a content object. For example if a web page includes the text Picasso was a painter then the search term extraction may select the terms Picasso and painter as terms that are likely to be of interest or have specific meanings. The extracted terms would then be used as tags so that Picasso and painter would be tags relevant to the content. The techniques for finding related items such as stemming taxonomical lookup and term extraction may be combined and or repeated to generate additional related items.

In one example a client computer communicates with the user interests server and the other online services via a computer network such as the Internet. The online services may be for example the YouTube video sharing service the Last.fm social music sharing service the FaceBook social networking service the Twitter micro blogging service and the like. The client computer executes a web browser for displaying content objects e.g. blogs blog postings photos videos web pages news articles and any other content objects received from the online services and for receiving user input and sending user requests to the online services. In this example a user interacts with the web browser and has requested content objects e.g. blog posts from the personal blog . In one example the widget plugin is downloaded onto the client computer from a web server via the computer network when for example a user receives content from the web server . The web server finds relevant content and returns the relevant content to the client computer . The content includes a reference to the widget plugin . Upon being downloaded the widget plugin executes in conjunction with the web browser e.g. as a plugin of the web browser. . The widget plugin communicates with the user interests server via the computer network . The widget plugin displays a widget user interface that shows relevant content objects . The widget plugin retrieves the relevant content objects from the web server being visited by the user based upon the metadata and or recent activity history stored in the user profile database . The details by which the metadata and recent activities are retrieved from the online services and requested by the plugin from the user profile database are described in more detail elsewhere herein. The client computer may also include a content vector generated based upon the content objects that may be used to compare the other relevant content objects with the user information i.e. with the metadata or tags and the recent activities by performing a similarity detection operation on the content vector and the profile vector as described elsewhere herein.

The user interests server provides features for determining relevance of content objects to a user s interests using personalization information and user profiles . The server identifies relevant content i.e. content that is relevant to the known interests of a user. In one example each of the user profiles includes a user name or identifier associated with metadata e.g. tags or the like. The user name or identifier is also associated with a list of recent activities which may be for example URL links of web pages visited by the associated user . In one example a profile vector is calculated as described above with reference to and included in the user profile . In other examples the profile vector may be calculated at other times e.g. when it is needed by the widget plugin . In still other examples the profile vector is not present and a different technique is used to determine relevance e.g. string comparison and to identify the relevant content . The user interests server communicates with other services e.g. web servers that have defined interfaces with which MyBlogLog is compatible including Flickr del.icio.us YouTube Digg and the like. The services are treated in essentially the same way by the user interests server in some aspects e.g. user metadata and or recent activities may be retrieved from any of the services and the widget plugin may also retrieve content objects from any of these services when identifying relevant content objects. The set of services described herein is provided as an example and any combination of these or different online services is possible as long as the online services accept requests from the user interests server or a similar component provide metadata and or recent activity information for a user and provide content objects requested e.g. by the widget plugin for a specified metadata tag or other lookup key.

The second client computer includes a web browser not shown displaying a page of a Site B . The display shows the first user s Blog which includes content objects D E and F. Those content objects are tagged with tags t t and t respectively. The second client computer also includes a plugin widget and a cookie for the second user. The cookie indicates that the second user has visited Site B . The plugin widget has requested relevant content objects for the second user from the enhanced content relevance system and the MyBlogLog service has returned three content objects A B and C which are tagged with tags t t and t respectively. The tags were applied at some previous time. The content objects A and C were retrieved as relevant because the second user s metadata in the database includes tags t and t which indicates that the second user is interested in tags t and t. The content object B was retrieved because the second user is viewing a content object D with the same tag t. Because both D and B are tagged with the same tag D and B are relevant and B may be of interest to a user who is interested in D.

The links are relevant the content that is displayed on the web page and also relevant to the interests of the user visiting the web page . The links are in one example HTML links to other web pages. The links are displayed as part of the web page and are added to the web page by the widget plugin of . The relevancy between the links and the content may be established by the existence of similar or identical words phrases or other types of content in both the links and the content . The relevancy between the links and the interests of the user visiting the web page may be established by the existence of similar or identical words or phrases in both the links and tags in the user s profile. In one example the widget plugin generates the links based upon an intersection between tags associated with the user and words in the content and or tags associated with the content . The first link is a link to an article that is similar to or the same as the blog posting and may have been generated for example because the user s profile includes a tag mortgage . The links are similarly relevant to the content and to the tags in the user s profile.

Computing system can also include a main memory such as random access memory RAM or other dynamic memory for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computing system may likewise include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

The computing system may also include information storage system which may include for example a media drive and a removable storage interface . The media drive may include a drive or other mechanism to support fixed or removable storage media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a CD or DVD drive R or RW or other removable or fixed media drive. Storage media may include for example a hard disk floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk CD or DVD or other fixed or removable medium that is read by and written to by media drive . As these examples illustrate the storage media may include a computer readable storage medium having stored therein particular computer software or data.

In alternative embodiments information storage system may include other similar components for allowing computer programs or other instructions or data to be loaded into computing system . Such components may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface such as a program cartridge and cartridge interface a removable memory for example a flash memory or other removable memory module and memory slot and other removable storage units and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computing system .

Computing system can also include a communications interface . Communications interface can be used to allow software and data to be transferred between computing system and external devices. Examples of communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet or other NIC card a communications port such as for example a USB port a PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a channel . This channel may carry signals and may be implemented using a wireless medium wire or cable fiber optics or other communications medium. Some examples of a channel include a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link a network interface a local or wide area network and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program product computer readable medium and the like may be used generally to refer to media such as for example memory storage device or storage unit . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in storing one or more instructions for use by processor to cause the processor to perform specified operations. Such instructions generally referred to as computer program code which may be grouped in the form of computer programs or other groupings when executed enable the computing system to perform features or functions of embodiments of the present invention. Note that the code may directly cause the processor to perform specified operations be compiled to do so and or be combined with other software hardware and or firmware elements e.g. libraries for performing standard functions to do so.

In an embodiment where the elements are implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer readable medium and loaded into computing system using for example removable storage drive drive or communications interface . The control logic in this example software instructions or computer program code when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units and processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units processors or domains may be used without detracting from the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processor or controller. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the claims. Additionally although a feature may appear to be described in connection with particular embodiments one skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention.

Furthermore although individually listed a plurality of means elements or method steps may be implemented by for example a single unit or processor. Additionally although individual features may be included in different claims these may possibly be advantageously combined and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that a combination of features is not feasible and or advantageous. Also the inclusion of a feature in one category of claims does not imply a limitation to this category but rather the feature may be equally applicable to other claim categories as appropriate. It must also be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Moreover it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but is to be defined according to the claims.

Although only certain exemplary embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention.

