---

title: Viral nanoparticle cell-targeted delivery platform
abstract: This invention is a process for the manufacture of a plant viral capsid to be used for the targeted delivery of therapeutics to diseased cells. The process uses a plant virus as the starting material. The choice of the plant virus overcomes a problem in the manufacture of a uniform starting material. The final product has an advantage over other plant virus-based delivery systems in that the plant virus selected has a natural structure that is resistant to breakdown during the delivery process. This system takes advantage of the reversible divalent cation switch that this capsid employs to assemble and disassemble.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09061076&OS=09061076&RS=09061076
owner: North Carolina State University
number: 09061076
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080522
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national phase application of PCT Application PCT US2008 006540 filed May 22 2008 and published in English on Dec. 18 2008 as International Publication No. WO 2008 153725 and which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 940 277 filed May 25 2007 the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under National Institutes of Health grant NCI CA098194. The United States Government has certain rights to this invention.

The present invention provides methods and compositions directed to the cellular and nuclear targeting of compounds of interests to cells of interest in mammals thereof in need.

There are two main problems in conventional chemotherapy. 1 Metastasis may result generating numerous new neoplasms that require repeated treatment and 2 multi drug resistance may develop in cancer cells rendering the drugs useless since they are effectively pumped out. Based on the over expression of certain cell surface receptors in cancer cells relative to normal cells targeted cancer therapy aims to address the first problem by delivering cytotoxic agents specifically to primary tumors and metastatic cells. However there are few if any targeted delivery strategies that can overcome multi drug resistance MDR . MDR arises because of the over expression of trans membrane pumps known as efflux transporters. Efflux transporters belong to the ATP binding cassette ABC family of membrane proteins which includes Pglycoprotein. When they are over expressed on a cancer cell it gains capacity to pump a wide range of anti cancer drugs out of the cytoplasm hence the name multi drug resistance. Many current chemotherapy drugs work by damaging DNA and thus inhibiting replication of rapidly dividing cancer cells. Consequently these drugs must concentrate in the nucleus for optimal function. For example the drug DOX targets the site of topoisomerase II action.

Previously used delivery platforms include metallic nanoparticles liposomes viruses and polymeric drug delivery systems. Numerous virus vectors have been studied for cancer treatment some with promising clinical results. However the FDA has not approved any virus based therapeutic agent due to concerns about toxicity that became apparent in the 1999 Gelsinger gene therapy accident. This incident raised concerns regarding the immune response to human adenoviral vectors. In addition to immunogenicity Adenovirus must be genetically disabled for use as a drug or gene delivery platform. From a regulatory perspective even the low probability event of Adenovirus recombination is sufficient to impede its development and use as a vector.

Plant viruses provide an alternative strategy for drug and potentially gene delivery. Preliminary research indicates that non enveloped icosahedral viruses also have potential for targeted cell delivery as multifunctional nanoparticles. One of the best characterized viruses for nanotechnology applications is Cowpea chlorotic mottle virus CCMV X. X. Zhao et al. 207 486 494 1995 A. Zlotnick et al. 277 450 456 2000 L. O. Liepold et al. 2 S166 S172 2005 F. D. Sikkema et al. 5 54 57 2007 which has the ability to assemble in vitro. Also Cowpea mosaic virus CPMV has been investigated for use as a delivery agent M. Manchester and P. Singh 58 1505 1522 2006 G. Basu et al. 8 721 725 2003 S. Sen Gupta et al. 16 1572 1579 2005 P. Singh et al. 67 23 41 2006 . Expression of a peptide on the C terminus T. Joelson et al 78 1213 1217 1997 and coat polymorphism studies C. Hsu et al. 349 222 229 2006 of Tomato bushy stunt virus TBSV demonstrates a genetic approach to preparation of targeting PVNs E. Gillitzer et al. 2390 2391 2002 . These viruses have been proposed as a delivery platform based on their ease of modification low toxicity and lack of replication in humans.

The present invention overcomes previous shortcomings in the art by employing a plant virus with a divalent cation switch responsive capsid which takes advantage of the different physiological conditions intra and extracellularly to permit delivery of compounds of interest loaded inside such capsids into the nucleus of cells of interest without risk of infection by the capsids.

A first aspect of the present invention provides a method of enclosing a compound of interest in plant viral capsids comprising the steps of treating viral capsids to remove divalent cations to open pores therein thereby providing sensitized viral capsids incubating the sensitized viral capsids with the compound of interest for a time sufficient for the compound of interest to enter the sensitized viral capsids and treating the viral capsids with divalent cations for a time sufficient to close the pores and enclose the compound of interest in the plant viral capsids.

A further aspect of the present invention is a plant viral capsid having a compound of interest enclosed therein. The plant viral capsid having a nuclear targeting compound coupled thereto the plant viral capsid can be produced by z treating viral capsids with a chelating agent to open pores therein thereby providing sensitized viral capsids ii incubating the sensitized viral capsids with the compound of interest for a time sufficient for the compound of interest to enter the sensitized viral capsids iii treating the viral capsids with divalent cations for a time sufficient to close the pores and enclose the compound of interest in the plant viral capsids.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of delivering a compound of interest to the nucleus of cells of interest which cells are in vitro or in a subject such as a mammalian subject in need thereof comprising providing plant viral capsids having the compound of interest enclosed therein the plant viral capsids further comprising i a cell targeting compound coupled thereto and ii a nuclear targeting compound coupled thereto and then administering the plant viral capsids to the cells of interest or the subject in an amount effective for said compound of interest to be delivered to the nucleus or other sub cellular organelle of said cells of interest that is not released in the cytoplasm but released in the nucleus or other subcellular organelle of interest . While the nucleus is a target of considerable interest for purposes such as delivering chemotherapeutic drugs the invention can also be used to target other organelles and hence can be considered a general two stage targeting delivery vehicle. This feature is analogous to infectious viruses but in the present invention the capability derives from the addition of targeting peptides or other targeting molecules added to the capsid of the non infectious plant virus.

The present invention is explained in greater detail in the drawings herein and the specification set forth below. The disclosures of all patent references cited herein are to be incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention is explained in greater detail below. This description is not intended to be a detailed catalog of all the different ways in which the invention may be implemented or all the features that may be added to the instant invention. For example features illustrated with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated into other embodiments and features illustrated with respect to a particular embodiment may be deleted from that embodiment. In addition numerous variations and additions to the various embodiments suggested herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the instant disclosure which do not depart from the instant invention. Hence the following specification is intended to illustrate some particular embodiments of the invention and not to specify exhaustively all permutations combinations and variations thereof.

As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Furthermore the term about as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as an amount of a compound dose time temperature and the like is meant to encompass variations of 20 10 5 1 0.5 or even 0.1 of the specified amount. Also as used herein and or refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items as well as the lack of combinations when interpreted in the alternative or .

The disclosures of all Patent references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

 Virus as used herein refers to an acellular organism whose genome consists of nucleic acid and which obligately replicates inside host cells using host metabolic machinery and ribosomes to form a pool of components that assemble into particles called virions which serve to protect the genome and to transfer it to other cells. As used herein a plant virus is a virus that infects plants. In a preferred embodiment the plant virus is Red clover necrotic mosaic virus RCNMV . In another embodiment the plant virus is a Dianthovirus. In another embodiment the plant virus is a Tombusviridae plant virus. The virus is in some embodiments an icosahedral virus e.g. T1 T3 T5 T7 T9 T13 T25 viruses etc. . See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 371 755 7 132 105 5 804 439 and 5 602 242. The virus is in some embodiments a virus that infects plants fungi and algae.

 Virion as used herein refers to virus particles. A virion is an inert carrier of viral genomic DNA or RNA that is assembled inside cells from virus specified components and that is a complete infective particle.

 Capsid as used herein refers to the protein shell that encloses viral genomic DNA or RNA in its central cavity comprising several monomeric capsid protein subunits. Further a viral capsid can contain other modifications including insertions deletions and or substitutions. As used herein a plant virus capsid refers to a capsid structure of a plant virus including a viral genomic ex segment facilitating capsid protein assembly of the same or another virus according to prior developed techniques R. H. Guenther et al. 32 2819 2828 2004 . In a preferred embodiment RCNMV plant virus capsids are used. In another embodiment Dianthovirus plant virus capsids are used. In another embodiment Tombusviridae plant virus capsids are used.

 Origin of assembly or origin of initiation as used herein refers to nucleic acid duplex such as an RNA duplex that is necessary for the assembly of individual viral coat protein subunits into the plant viral capsid. These have sometimes also been called transactivating nucleic acid segments. See e.g. Lommel and Sit U.S. Pat. No. 6 433 248 The disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. . Specific examples include but are not limited to a an RNA consisting of the sequence UCAAUCAGAGGUAUCGCCCCGCCUCUCAGUGUUG SEQ ID NO 1 and b an RNA consisting of the sequence AGAGGUAUCGCCCCGCCUCUC SEQ ID NO 2 .

 Polyanion as used herein may be any suitable polyanion preferably included in an amount sufficient to support self assembly of the viral capsid following initiation of assembly by the origin of assembly as noted above. Examples of suitable polyanions include but are not limited to succinylated PLL succinylated PEI polyglutamic acid polyaspartic acid polyacrylic acid polymethacrylic acid dextran sulfate heparin hyaluronic acid DNA RNA and negatively charged proteins see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 881 576 heparan sulfate dermatan sulfate chondroitin sulfate pentosan sulfate keratan sulfate mucopolysaccharide polysulfate carrageenan sodium alginate potassium alginate hyaluronic acid and carboxymethylcellulose see e.g. US Patent Application No. 2007 0110813 sucrose octasulfate or inositol hexaphosphate see e.g. Patent Application No. 2007 0116753 . In some embodiments polyanion refers to the native bipartite RNA genome RNA 1 and RNA 2 or any combination of said genome including non native sequences or polymeric materials of negative charge.

Plant viral capsid proteins may be modified such as to provide novel characteristics beneficial for use under the invention. For example one or more amino acids comprising the inner wall of a virion cavity may be modified e.g. by site directed mutagenesis to provide for novel chemical environments in the cavity. Thus positive charge in the cavity may be increased through modifications adding for example additional lysine and or arginine residues. Similarly the negative charge of the cavity may be increased through for example the addition of the specifically placed glutamic and or aspartic acid residues. In a like manner the hydrophobicity of the cavity may be selectively altered through use of an appropriate substituted amino acid.

Chemical modifications and functionalization may also be used to modify plant viral capsid cavities. For example the cavity may be modified by addition of thiols with the potential to form disulfides or react with metals e.g. cadmium gold .

Additionally amino acids in exposed capsid proteins on the outer surface of a viral capsid may be modified to create novel properties. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 248 589. For example such amino acid residues may be covalently linked to targeting compounds to provide for directed targeting of the plant viral capsid to particular tissues in therapeutic and imaging techniques. As another example the outer surface may be modified and or functionalized with reactive groups that enhance interactions with surfaces. Covalent modifications to increase the stability of the virion or provide a site for further chemical modification may also be used. Additional cysteine substitutions are particularly preferred in this embodiment.

In some embodiments the targeting compound is included onto said plant viral capsid surface by modification of the plant viral genome to produce a coat protein with altered sequence.

 Cell of interest as used herein may be any suitable cell including but not limited to cancer cells tissue cells generally e.g. muscle bone nerve liver lung etc. pathological and non pathological microbial cells e.g. bacterial mycobacterial spirochetal rickettsial chlamydial mycoplasmal and fungal etc. parasitic cells e.g. protozoal helminth etc. and plant cells etc.

 Cancer cell as used herein may be any cancer cell including but not limited to lung colon breast ovarian prostate bone nerve liver leukemia and lymphoma cells. In some embodiments the cancer cell is a multidrug resistant cancer cell see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 304 053 7 091 226 7 067 551 or a cancer stem cell as the constructs described herein tend to evade the MDR transporters.

 Subjects as used herein are in general mammalian subjects including but not limited to human subjects and animal subjects e.g. dogs cats cows horses rabbits sheep etc. for veterinary purposes. Subjects may be afflicted with cancer including but not limited to lung colon breast ovarian prostate bone nerve and liver cancer leukemia and lymphoma. In some embodiments the patient is afflicted with a multidrug resistant cancer as the constructs described herein tend to evade the MDR transporters.

 Compound of interest as used herein includes but is not limited to detectable compounds including labelled compounds and detectable compounds in elemental form and active compounds.

In some embodiments the compound of interest is a positively charged or electrically neutral compound. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is believed that electrostatic attraction drives the uptake of a positively charged or electrically neutral compound into the pores in the plant viral capsid. In some embodiments the compounds may have a Stokes radius of up to 15 18 or 20 Angstroms.

In some embodiments the compound of interest is a fluorescent compound or a chemiluminescent compound. In some embodiments the compound of interest is a fluorescent compound whereby fluorescence of such a compound is quenched when the fluorescent compound loaded into a plant viral capsid and fluorescence is not quenched when the fluorescent compound is released from inside a plant viral capsid and whereby release of the fluorescent compound can be monitored by the measurement of increase in fluorescence quantum yield.

 Detectable compounds as used herein include but are not limited to radiolabels e.g. S I P H C I enzyme labels e.g. horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase gold beads chemiluminescence labels ligands e.g. biotin digoxin and or fluorescence labels e.g. rhodamine phycoerythrin fluorescein a fluorescent protein including but not limited to green fluorescent protein or one of its many modified forms a nucleic acid segment in accordance with known techniques and energy absorbing and energy emitting agents.

 Active compound as used herein includes but is not limited to cytotoxic nucleosides or nucleotides antisense oligonucleotides radionuclides energy absorbing and energy emitting agents and other cytotoxic agents. Other cytotoxic or antineoplastic agents include but are not limited to ricin or more particularly the ricin A chain aclacinomycin diphtheria toxin Monensin Verrucarin A Abrin Tricothecenes and exotoxin A taxol cytochalasin B gramicidin D ethidium bromide emetine mitomycin etoposide tenoposide anti mitotic agents such as the vinca alkaloids e.g. vincristine and vinblastine colchicin anthracyclines e.g. doxorubicin daunorubicin epirubicin and idarubicin and analogs thereof dihydroxy anthracin dione mitoxantrone mithramycin actinomycin D 1 dehydrotestosterone glucocorticoids procaine tetracaine lidocaine propranolol and puromycin and analogs or homologs thereof antimetabolites e.g. methotrexate 6 mercaptopurine 6 thioguanine cytarabine and 5 fluorouracil decarbazine alkylating agents e.g. mechlorethamine thiotepa chlorambucil melphalan carmustine BSNU lomustine CCNU cyclothosphamide busulfan dibromomannitol streptozotocin mitomycin C and cis dichlorodiamine platinum II DDP and antibiotics including but not limited to dactinomycin formerly actinomycin bleomycin mithramycin calicheamicin and anthramycin AMC .

Additional examples of antineoplastic or cytotoxic compounds that may be used as active compounds herein include but are not limited to cisplatin doxorubicin taxotere taxol etoposide irinotecan camptostar topotecan paclitaxel docetaxel epothilones tamoxifen 5 fluorouracil methoxtrexate 5FU temozolomide cyclophosphamide SCH 66336 R115777 L778 123 BMS 214662 Iressa Tarceva antibodies to EGFR Gleevec intron ara C adriamycin cytoxan gemcitabine Uracil mustard Chlormethine Ifosfamide Melphalan Chlorambucil Pipobroman Triethylenemelamine Triethylenethiophosphoramine Busulfan Carmustine Lomustine Streptozocin Dacarbazine Floxuridine Cytarabine 6 Mercaptopurine 6 Thioguanine Fludarabine phosphate oxaliplatin leucovirin ELOXATIN Pentostatine Vinblastine Vincristine Vindesine Bleomycin Dactinomycin Daunorubicin Doxorubicin Epirubicin Idarubicin Mithramycin Deoxycoformycin Mitomycin C L Asparaginase Teniposide 17. alpha. Ethinylestradiol Diethylstilbestrol Testosterone Prednisone Fluoxymesterone Dromostanolone propionate Testolactone Megestrolacetate Methylprednisolone Methyltestosterone Prednisolone Triamcinolone Chlorotrianisene Hydroxyprogesterone Aminoglutethimide Estramustine Medroxyprogesteroneacetate Leuprolide Flutamide Toremifene goserelin Carboplatin Hydroxyurea Amsacrine Procarbazine Mitotane Mitoxantrone Levamisole Navelbene CPT 11 Anastrazole Letrazole Capecitabine Reloxafine Droloxafine or Hexamethylmelamine See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 354 921 to Schering a mechlorethamine chlorambucil cyclophosphamide melphalan ifosfamide methotrexate 6 mercaptopurine 5 fluorouracil cytarabile gemcitabine vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine paclitaxel etoposide irinotecan topotecan doxorubicin bleomycin mitomycin carmustine lomustine cisplatin carboplatin tamoxifen leuprolide flutamide and megestrol imatinib adriamycin dexamethasone or cyclophosphamide See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 358 258 to Genentech .

Active compounds may be oligonucleotides e.g. DNA RNA cDNA PNA genomic DNA and synthetic oligonucleotides such as antisense oligonucleotides etc. Such oligonucleotides are typically from 10 12 or 15 nucleotide bases in length up to 30 50 or 100 nucleotide bases in length or more. Active compounds may be noncoding regulatory RNAs.

 Noncoding regulatory RNAs ncRNA as used herein includes both natural and synthetic ncRNAs. Examples include but are not limited to small interfering RNA siRNA micro RNA miRNA piRNAs ribosomal RNA rRNA small nuclear RNA snRNA small non mRNA snmRNA small nucleolar RNA snoRNA small temporal RNA stRNA and other RNAs that regulate the function of mRNAs. See e.g. D. Bartel et al. PCT Application Publication No. WO 2005 102298 see also T. Kowalik et al. US Patent Application Publication No. 20050186589. Some ncRNAs may be in the form of a natural or synthetic short hairpin RNA or shRNA which short hairpin RNA may or may not be subsequently processed to form a mature ncRNA. In general ncRNAs as used herein may be any suitable length but are typically short e.g. from 5 10 or 15 nucleotides in length up to 25 30 or 35 nucleotides in length. Nucleic acids encoding ncRNAs as used herein may be natural or synthetic and may be derived from any suitable source including plant animal and microbe sources as described herein.

 Small interfering RNA or siRNA sometimes also referred to as short interfering RNA or silencing RNA as used herein has its ordinary meaning in the art. In general siRNAs are double stranded RNA molecules that are 15 or 20 nucleotides in length up to 25 or 30 nucleotides in length. siRNAs are known. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 101 995 6 977 152 and 6 974 680.

 MicroRNA or miRNA as used herein has its ordinary meaning in the art. Typically a miRNA is an RNA molecule derived from genomic loci processed from transcripts that can form local RNA precursor miRNA structures. The mature miRNA usually has 20 21 22 23 or 24 nucleotides although in some cases it may include a greater of lesser number of nucleotides for example between 18 and 26 nucleotides. The miRNA has the potential to pair with flanking genomic sequences placing the mature miRNA within an imperfect RNA duplex which may be needed for its processing from a longer precursor transcript. In animals this processing may occur through the action of Drosha and Dicer endonucleases which excise a miRNA duplex from the hairpin portion of the longer primary transcript. The miRNA duplex comprises the miRNA and a similar sized segment known as the miRNA miRNA star from the other arm of the stem loop. See e.g. US Patent Application Publication No. 20060185027.

 Radionuclide as used herein may be any radionuclide suitable for delivering a therapeutic dosage of radiation to a target cell such as a tumor or cancer cell including but not limited to Ac At Ba Br Cd Cr Cu Dy Eu Gd Au Ho In In I I I Ir Ir Ir Ir Fe Fe Fe Lu Pd P Ra Re Re Sm Sc Sc Se Se Ag Sr S Ta mSn Sn Yb Yb Y Bi Sb Hg Ru Pd Rh and Pb.

Fluorescent compounds include fluorescein and its derivatives rhodamine and its derivatives dansyl umbelliferone etc. Chemiluminescent compounds include luciferin and 2 3 dihydrophthalazinediones e.g. luminol.

Chemically linking fluorescent or chemiluminescent labels to nucleotides is well known in the art e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 811 218 and 4 855 225 . Exemplary chemiluminescent labels are 1 2 dioxetane compounds U.S. Pat. No. 4 931 223 Bronstein et al. 1994 219 169 81 . Fluorescent dyes useful for labeling nucleotide 5 triphosphates include fluoresceins Menchen et al. 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 5 188 934 rhodamines U.S. Pat. No. 5 366 860 cyanines WO 97 45539 and metal porphyrin complexes WO 88 04777 .

Fluorescein dyes are well known in the art and include but are not limited to fluorescein isothiocyanate 6 carboxyfluorescein 6 FAM 2 4 1 4 tetrachlorofluorescein TET 2 4 5 7 1 4 hexachlorofluorescein HEX 2 7 dimethoxy 4 5 dichloro 6 carboxyrhodamine JOE 2 chloro 5 fluoro 7 8 fused phenyl 1 4 dichloro 6 carboxyfluoresccin NED and T chloro T phenyl 1 4 dichloro 6 carboxyfluorescein VIC CY3 CY5 CY3.5 CY5.5 and the like.

As noted above the present invention describes a method of enclosing a compound of interest in plant viral capsids. In general the method comprises the steps of a treating viral capsids e.g. with a chelating agent or by dialysis to remove sufficient divalent cations e.g. sufficient Ca sufficient Mg or most preferably remove sufficient of both Ca and Mg and open pores therein thereby providing sensitized viral capsids b incubating the sensitized viral capsids with the compound of interest for a time sufficient for said compound of interest to enter said sensitized viral capsids and c treating said viral capsids with divalent cations for a time sufficient to close said pores and enclose said compound of interest in said plant viral capsids. The foregoing steps are typically carried out in an aqueous media or solution.

Plant viral capsids for use in the method can be produced in vivo in plant tissue or assembled in vitro e.g. in a cell free system . Typically in either system an anionic origin of assembly comprising a segment of RNA typically about 40 or 50 nucleotides or more in length is included to initiate the assembly of viral the viral capsid from the one or more viral proteins e.g. natural coat proteins recombinant or fusion proteins comprised of natural coat proteins and a targeting protein or peptide combinations thereof . The origin of assembly can be the entire native viral RNA that contains the origin of assembly or a fragment thereof that contains the origin of assembly typically at least 40 to 50 nucleotides in length . In addition and in either system there is typically included a polyanion sufficient to continue or propagate assembly of intact viral capsids following initiation of assembly. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is thought that plant viral capsids are stabilized by the presence of the origin of assembly and polyanion inside of the capsid shell. Any suitable polyanion may be used with RNA being one example. When RNA is used as the polyanion any suitable RNA may be used preferably from 1 or 1.5 kilobases to 5.5 or 6 kilobases in length or more. Suitable RNAs include but are not limited to native viral RNA preferably containing at least one or two mutations to render the RNA inactive and synthetic RNA.

As noted above in connection with U.S. Pat. No. 6 433 248 to Lommel Sit RNA virus trans activating RNA or a synthetic oligonucleotide thereof can be used as the origin of assembly. Examples of such nucleic acids include but are not limited to a an RNA containing the sequence 

In some embodiments the plant virus capsid is that of a Tombusvirideae particularly a P domain containing Tombusvirideae. Typically the pores are opened at one or more e.g. a plurality of the three fold axes of symmetry of the capsid of which there are sixty in viruses such as RCNMV .

 A method of enclosing a compound of interest in plant viral capsids as used herein refers to treatment of plant viral capsids with a chelating agent to open cavities in the plant viral capsids permitting a compound of interest to infuse into the plant viral capsids and closing the cavities in the plant viral capsids by incubating the plant viral capsids with divalent cations.

 Divalent cation switch as used herein refers to the reversible opening in plant viral capsids of channels that extend into the interior of the capsid in an environment low in calcium and magnesium which allow for the movement of compounds of interest into and out of the plant viral capsids. In the closed form the virus does not contain pores shows the open and closed forms of the RCMNV viral capsid . In some embodiments divalent cations include magnesium calcium or a combination thereof.

 Chelating agent as used herein refers to an organic compound capable of forming coordinate bonds with metals through two or more atoms of the organic compound to form a chelate. In some embodiments the chelating agent is ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid EDTA . In the present invention sensitized viral capsids refer to plant viral capsids that have be treated with chelating agent to remove divalent cations from the plant viral capsid thereby opening channels therein.

In the present invention treating plant viral capsids refers to co incubation of plant viral capsids with a chelating agent or divalent cation to cause either opening or closing of channels in the plant viral capsid.

In further embodiments the present invention provides a method of enclosing a compound of interest in plant viral capsids comprising the step of separating said plant viral capsids from excess compound of interest. In some embodiments of the invention separating refers to dialysis. In some embodiments of the invention separating refers to affinity chromatography. In some embodiments of the invention separating refers to ultracentrifugation wherein ultracentrifugation results in pelleting of the plant viral capsids out of an aqueous solution and is followed by resuspension of the plant viral capsids in an aqueous solution that does not contain a compound of interest.

In some embodiments of the present invention a time sufficient for said compound of interest to enter sensitized capsids includes but is not limited to 12 16 hr 10 18 hr 5 24 hr and 1 30 hr.

Where the active compound per se is cationic rather than anionic that active compound can be first conjugated to an anion or polyanion e.g. a lipid a nucleic acid and the conjugate so formed then internalized as described above see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 323 594 7 166 745 and 7 098 032 .

In some embodiments of the present invention the method of enclosing a compound of interest in plant viral capsids further comprises the step of coupling at least one targeting compound to said plant viral capsids before or after said separating step.

 Coupling as used herein refers to covalent attachment of targeting compounds to amino acid residues in plant viral capsid proteins. In some embodiments covalent attachment can occur at a cysteine or a lysine residue in plant viral capsid proteins.

 Targeting compound as used herein refers to a ligand or a binding partner that specifically interacts with a proteinaceous or a non proteinaceous extracellular structure on cells of interest. In some embodiments targeting compounds are proteins protein fragments peptides or non proteinaceous chemical structures.

In some embodiments of the invention targeting compounds can be a ligand or a binding partner that specifically interacts with an extracellular surface protein on mammalian cells of interest said extracellular surface protein being capable of mediating endocytosis of said plant viral capsids into mammalian cells of interest.

 Extracellular surface protein as used herein may be any extracellular surface or cell surface protein including but not limited to growth factor receptors receptor tyrosine kinases folate hydrolases GPI anchored cell surface antigens pumps and cell surface receptors including but not limited to G protein coupled receptors ion channel linked receptors and enzyme linked receptors.

Extracellular surface proteins of interest may be those differentially expressed by a targeted cell of interest in comparison to a cell that is not to be targeted by a plant viral capsid. For example the cancer cells differ from normal cells in many respects including the up or down regulation of numerous genes. Among the genes that are differentially regulated in cancer cells are genes that encode proteins that are expressed on the extracellular surface.

As an example specific proteins are expressed on the extracellular surface of breast cancer cells that are not expressed or are expressed at very low levels by normal breast tissue cells and cells from other normal tissues. Extracellular proteins that are expressed exclusively by breast cancer cells are excellent candidates for specific targeting of malignant cells with anticancer drugs. Plant viral capsids may be internalized by malignant cells that express breast cancer cell specific receptor proteins. The human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 HER 2 belongs to a family of transmembrane receptors involved in signal transduction pathways that regulate cell growth and differentiation. Over expression of HER2 is associated with malignancy and a poor prognosis in breast cancer M. Piccart et al. 61 73 82 2001 . HER 2 is over expressed in 20 of breast cancers and is the target of therapies including the antibody treatment known commercially as Herceptin S. H. Chiu et al. 97 357 369 2004 R. Nahta et al. 64 2343 2346 2004 . The over expression of EGFR M. Ono et al. 12 7242 7251 2006 HER 2 S. H. Chiu et al. 97 357 369 2004 N. Cornez et al. 87 847 858 2000 S. Kitano et al. 12 7397 7405 2006 G. Akabani et al. 33 333 347 2006 and CXCR4 H. Hanaoka et al. 33 489 494 2006 Z. X. Liang et al. 65 967 971 2005 have led to targeted therapy using antibodies e.g. Herceptin and labeling using targeting peptides including an immunoliposome approach to HER 2 targeting Q. C. Wei et al. 23 1159 1165 2003 G. A. Koning et al. 26 299 307 2002 J. W. Park et al. 74 95 113 2001 . Malignant breast cancer cells can be targeted using targeting peptides that bind to HER 2.

Another example of a receptor that can be used to target breast cancer cells is CXCR4 which is known to be over expressed in hypoxic breast tumor cells T. Slagsvold et al. 25 3738 3749 2006 P. W. Thavasu et al. 8 S13 S13 2006 . Like HER2 CXCR4 can be targeted with plant viral capsids coupled to CXCR4 targeting peptides. CXCR4 up regulation is associated with hypoxia inducible factor 1 D. Zagzag et al. 86 1221 1232 2006 and other hypoxia factors M. Z. Ratajczak et al. 20 1915 1924 2006 . Antagonists to CXCR4 have been designed based on C terminal deletion mutants of SDF 1 a natural ligand. Y. Tan et al. 34 1553 1562 2006 . The targeting of CXCR4 receptors using a 14 residue targeting peptide labeled with radioactive indium In H. Hanaoka et al. 33 489 494 2006 . Targeted peptide therapies have been tested in vitro using the CXCR4 DV3 ligand linked to transducible anticancer peptides E. L. Snyder et al. 65 10646 10650 2005 . Additionally malignant breast cancer cells can be effectively targeted via synergistic effects through combination of multiple targeting peptides that bind other receptors.

In some embodiments of the invention targeting compounds can be a ligand or a binding partner that specifically interacts with an extracellular non proteinaceous chemical structure e.g. natural carbohydrate antigens on mammalian cells of interest said extracellular chemical structure being capable of mediating endocytosis of said plant viral capsids into mammalian cells of interest.

As one illustrative example a plant viral capsid can enter a cell of interest by having a ligand or binding protein on the plant viral capsid that is specific for a cell surface molecule or receptor and or by using an antibody directed against a molecule on the cell surface of the plant viral capsid resulting in complex formation between the antibody and plant viral capsid followed by internalization of the complex.

In some embodiments plant viral capsids dock with GPCR EGFR and chemokine class receptors leading to formation of clathrin coated pits and endosome uptake. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is thought that this mechanism involves the formation of clusters of receptors at the cell surface that recruit the protein clathrin on the cytosolic side of the membrane forming a pit that eventually becomes a spherical endosome coated by clathrin. In some embodiments plant viral capsids dock with integrin binding domain IBD proteins on the cell surface which promote the formation of lipid rafts and uptake of the plant viral capsids in caveolae.

In some embodiments targeting compounds are peptides selected from the group of peptides that specifically bind to CD46 CXCR4 EGFR HER2 IBD CAR or a combination thereof D. T. Curiel In Anticancer Molecules Structure Function and Design Vol. 886 pp. 158 171 1999 S. D. Saban et al. 349 526 537 2005 S. J. Watkins et al. 4 1004 1012 1997 see Table 2 . CD46 is a receptor targeted by Ad35 fiber peptide Cusack S. 15 237 243 2005 D. T. Curiel et al. Anticancer Molecules Structure Function and Design Vol. 886 pp. 158 171 1999 S. D. Saban et al. 349 526 537 2005 S. J. Watkins et al 4 1004 1012 1997 and Measles virus M. K. Liszewski et al. 275 37692 37701 2000 M. Manchester et al. 233 174 184 1997 . CXCR4 is a chemokine receptor over expressed in hypoxic breast cancer cells H. Hanaoka et al. 33 333 347 2006 . EGFR is Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor M. Ono and M. Kuwano 12 7242 7251 2006 . HER2 is a growth factor receptor over expressed in many breast cancers S. H. Chui et al. 97 357 369 2004 R. Nahta et al. 64 2343 2346 2004 . IBD is Integrin Binding Domain A. G. Thachenko et al. 15 482 490 2004 . CAR is Coxsackie Adenovirus Receptor D. T. Curiel et al. 886 pp. 158 171 1999 S. D. Saban et al. 349 526 537 2005 S. J. Watkins et al 4 1004 1012 1997 .

In some embodiments targeting compounds include a nuclear localization signal NLS . See e.g. Franzen et al. US Patent Publication No. 2003 0147966. Nuclear localization signal as used herein refers to a polypeptide that promotes transport of the fusion protein to a cell nucleus. Amino acid sequences which when included in a protein function to promote transport of the protein to the nucleus are known in the art and are termed nuclear localization signals NLS . Nuclear localization signals typically are composed of a stretch of basic amino acids. When attached to a heterologous protein e.g. to one of the viral capsid proteins the nuclear localization signal promotes transport of the protein to a cell nucleus. Different variations of NLS have been identified with the SV40 large T Antigen NLS serving as the prototype of the classical NLS D. Kalderon et al. 39 499. 1984 R. E. Lanford et al. 37 801 1984 . Other NLS that differ from the classical NLS by binding to different members of the importin family or operating in an importin independent manner include the M9 sequence H. Siomi and G. Dreyfuss 129 551 1995 the lymphoid enhancer factor 1 NLS M. G. Prieve et al. 18 4819 1998 an integrin binding domain oligolysine peptide A. G. Tkachenko et al. 15 482 490 2004 and the NLS of the HIV 1 Tat protein A. Efthymiadis et al. 273 1623 1998 . In some embodiments one or more of the above listed NLS are targeting compounds coupled to plant viral capsids.

In some embodiments nuclear targeting is desirable for anti cancer drug delivery as these drugs act in a cell s nucleus see . In mammalian cells the nuclear pore diameter is 33 47 nm and the pore restricts entry of molecules too large to fit. By attaching an NLS a large object e.g. a plant virus capsid can be transported to the nucleus See . As has been shown for Au nanoparticles nuclear localization of PVNs is facilitated by multiple targeting signals.

Localization in or to other organelles of the cell including but not limited to endoplasmic reticulum mitochondria etc. is achieved in essentially the same manner using appropriate sub cellular targeting peptides in like manner. The same principle discussed for nuclear localization can be used for these other types of intracellular targeting using chemical or genetic modification of the viral capsid to introduce the appropriate peptide targeting sequence for the organelle of interest. A variety of suitable sub cellular targeting peptides are known. See e.g. US Patent Applications Nos. 20070157328 and 20050234222 see also A. Muratovska et al. 29 1852 1863 2001 T. M . Fu et al. 72 1469 1481 1998 .

In some embodiments the present invention provides the use of a plant viral capsid of any embodiment of the present invention for the preparation of a medicament for administering said compound of interest to a subject in need thereof.

The plant viral capsids described herein can be formulated for administration in a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient in accordance with known techniques. See e.g. Remington 9th Ed. 1995 . In the manufacture of plant viral capsids according to the invention the plant viral capsids are admixed with inter alia an acceptable carrier. The carrier must of course be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with any other ingredients in the formulation and must not be deleterious to the patient. The carrier can be a solid or a liquid or both and is preferably formulated with the compound as a unit dose formulation for example a tablet which may contain from 0.01 or 0.5 to 95 or 99 by weight of the active compound. One or more compounds of interest and or targeting compounds can be incorporated in the formulations of the invention.

The formulations of the invention include those suitable for oral rectal topical i.e. skin hair nails hooves both skin and mucosal surfaces including airway surfaces buccal e.g. sub lingual vaginal parenteral transdermal nasal and inhalational administration although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the nature and severity of the condition being treated and on the nature of the particular cells of interest being targeted.

In some embodiments administration of plant viral capsids to mammalian subjects refers to parenteral injection of plant viral capsids. Parenteral injection as used herein refers to subcutaneous intraveneous intraarterial intramuscular transdermal intraperitoneal or intrathecal injection.

The compounds and compositions of the present invention can be administered by any means that transports the active agents to the lung including but not limited to nasal administration inhalation and insufflation. The active agents disclosed herein can be administered to the lungs of a patient by any suitable means but are preferably administered by generating an aerosol comprised of respirable particles the respirable particles comprised of the active agents which particles the subject inhales. The respirable particles can be liquid or solid and they can optionally contain other therapeutic ingredients including but not limited to surfactants.

Particles comprised of active agents for practicing the present invention should be administered as a formulation including particles of respirable size that is particles of a size sufficiently small to pass through the nose mouth and larynx upon inhalation and into the bronchi and alveoli of the lungs. In general respirable particles range from about 0.5 to 10 microns in diameter. Particles of non respirable size that are included in the aerosol tend to deposit in the throat and be swallowed. Accordingly the quantity of non respirable particles in the aerosol is preferably minimized. For nasal administration a particle size in the range of 10 500 m is preferred to ensure retention in the nasal cavity. Alternatively droplets can be given.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions of active agents for producing an aerosol can be prepared by combining the active agents with a suitable vehicle such as sterile pyrogen free water. Other therapeutic compounds can optionally be included.

Formulations suitable for oral administration may be presented in discrete units such as capsules cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active compound as a powder or granules as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water or water in oil emulsion. Such formulations may be prepared by any suitable method of pharmacy which includes the step of bringing into association the active compound and a suitable carrier which may contain one or more accessory ingredients as noted above . In general the formulations of the invention are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active compound with a liquid or finely divided solid carrier or both and then if necessary shaping the resulting mixture. For example a tablet may be prepared by compressing or molding a powder or granules containing the active compound optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the compound in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent and or surface active dispersing agent s . Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid binder.

Formulations of the virus with encapsulated drug cargo and capsid bound targeting compounds suitable for intravascular use e.g. intravenous use may employ a solution of physiological saline or appropriate physiological buffer in which the virus particles are suspended. Alternatively the virus particles may be lyophilized freeze dried using an appropriate buffer system and subsequently reconstituted with distilled water prior to use in treating patients.

By the terms treat treating or treatment it is intended that the severity of the disorder or the symptoms of the disorder are reduced or the disorder is partially or entirely eliminated as compared to that which would occur in the absence of treatment. Treatment does not require the achievement of a complete cure of the disorder.

By the terms preventing or prevention it is intended that the inventive methods eliminate or reduce the incidence or onset of the disorder as compared to that which would occur in the absence of the measure taken. Alternatively stated the present methods slow delay control or decrease the likelihood or probability of the disorder in the subject as compared to that which would occur in the absence of the measure taken.

A therapeutically effective or effective amount is intended to designate a dose that causes a relief of symptoms of a disease or disorder as noted through clinical testing and evaluation patient observation and or the like. Effective amount or effective can further designate a dose that causes a detectable change in biological or chemical activity. The detectable changes may be detected and or further quantified by one skilled in the art for the relevant mechanism or process. Moreover effective amount or effective can designate an amount that maintains a desired physiological state i.e. reduces or prevents significant decline and or promotes improvement in the condition of interest. As is generally understood in the art the dosage will vary depending on the administration routes symptoms and body weight of the patient but also depending upon the compound being administered.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method of delivering a compound of interest to the nucleus of cells of interest wherein release of the compound of interest from the plant viral capsids occurs in the nucleus of a cell of interest which is the site of action of chemotherapeutics that target replicating cells.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method of delivering a compound of interest to the nucleus of cells of interest wherein release of the compound of interest from the plant viral capsids does not occur in the cytoplasm of a cell of interest which is the site where efflux pumps are located and can function to remove the compound of interest from the cell of interest. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is thought that the release of the compound of interest from the plant viral capsids is time delayed by the intrinsic time constant for divalent ion transport from the virus interior to the exterior cytosol protoplasm or solution.

One example of all of the foregoing is Red clover necrotic mosaic virus RCNMV . RCNMV is a Tombusviridae Dianthovirus. RCNMV has a number of advantages over previously used delivery platforms such as metallic nanoparticles liposomes and polymeric drug delivery systems. RCNMV is a non lipid T 3 icosahedral soil borne plant virus which presents 360 lysines and 180 cysteines that can be used as labeling sites for cell targeting peptides. The RCNMV protein shell can be opened and closed based on an exquisitely sensitive divalent cation switch. The packaging of drugs cationic or neutral can be achieved by control of calcium and magnesium ion concentration.

The virion capsid has prominent surface protrusions and subunits with a clearly defined shell and protruding domains M. B. Sherman et al. 80 21 10395 10406 2006 . The structures of both the individual viral capsid protein CP subunits and the entire virion capsid are consistent with other species in the Tombusviridae family. Within the RCNMV capsid there is a clearly defined inner cage formed by complexes of genomic RNA and the amino termini of capsid protein subunits. An RCNMV virion has approximately 390 30 calcium ions bound to the capsid and 420 25 magnesium ions thought to be in the interior of the capsid. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is thought that depletion of both calcium and magnesium ions from RCNMV leads to significant structural changes including i formation of 11 to 13 diameter channels that extend through the capsid and ii significant reorganization within the interior of the capsid. Neither CCMV nor CPMV uses the pore opening mechanism F. G. Albert et al. 71 4296 4299 1997 observed in RCNMV V. R. Basnayake et al. 345 532 539 2006 . Genomic RNA within native capsids containing both calcium and magnesium ions is extremely resistant to nucleases but depletion of both of these cations results in nuclease sensitivity as measured by a significant reduction in RCNMV infectivity which indicates that divalent cations play a central role in capsid dynamics and suggest a mechanism for the release of viral RNA in low divalent cation environments such as those found within the cytoplasm of a cell.

Various RCNMV based delivery applications are based on the understanding of the structure and assembly of RCNMV. The virus has a 5300 nucleotide bipartite genome RNA 1 and RNA 2 . The genome encodes 3 major proteins a polymerase capsid protein and movement protein. Assembly of RCNMV begins with a specific recognition of a virion RNA structure the origin of assembly OAS by the capsid protein. The OAS is constituted by the formation of a kissing loop complex at a defined location in RNA 1 and RNA 2 See . The binding of the capsid protein to the OAS initiates the assembly process that results in the encapsidation of the viral genome.

A RCNMV based delivery platform has the following attributes 1 Uniform size and shape 36 nm icosahedron 2 Large cargo capacity up to 1800 nm equivalent to the volume of a 15 nm diameter nanoparticle 3 Structurally defined chemical attachment sites for labeling with cell surface receptor and nuclear targeting signals 4 Ability to be produced in gram quantities plant expression scalable 5 Robust and stable plant viral capsid no lipid component and stable in biological fluids 6 Well defined chemical infusion protocol reversible EDTA treatment 7 Milieu specific intracellular drug release cooperative kinetics of divalent ion effusion 8 Replication restricted to plants does not infect humans .

RCNMV has evolved the capability to be stable in soil. RCNMV is remarkably hardy and can withstand extremes of temperature and pH organic solvents nuclease and protease attack and ultracentrifugation. Under conditions of high calcium and magnesium RCNMV viral capsids are extremely stable over a wide range of solution conditions. Consequently RCNMV viral capsids are also stable in the mammalian circulatory system where the calcium ion concentration is in the millimolar range. Unlike liposomes once inside a cell should the calcium and magnesium concentration fall into the 100 nm range RCNMV viral capsids structurally change into an open conformation creating 60 11 13 pores extending through the viral capsids. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory it is thought that in nature this potentially permits the release of its genome in a newly infected cell. At higher divalent cation concentrations as found in soil the virus is in its closed conformation and the genomic RNA cargo is protected. The same level of protection is conferred to any added cargo and leakage rates are very low see Example 2 . Release of encapsidated drugs is negligible in blood and other biofluids when the calcium and magnesium ion concentrations are higher than 1 mM.

The genome of RCNMV is minimal and encodes a capsid protein subunit a movement protein and two overlapping polymerase proteins. There is no packaged replication machinery within the virion and the four viral proteins have a low probability of adversely affecting an animal cell. Moreover except for a small part of the genome that is required to initiate assembly of the capsid protein subunit the genome can be altered. In some embodiments the genome of the RCNMV itself may be altered to present RNA therapeutics to a targeted cell. Other plant viral capsids can carry significant numbers of small molecules or negatively charged polymers that replace the native genome. These molecules polymers are not infused as described above for RCNMV but rather reconstituted inside the virus. The reconstitution protocol requires that cargo interact with the positively charged amino acids on the interior of the plant viral capsid. This interaction creates a difference in the charge requirement of the cargo.

The capsid structures of RCNMV is described in more detail in Sherman et al. 80 10395 10406 2006 . The capsid structure of another Tombusvirideae virus Cucumber necrosis virus which has a very similar capsid structure with pores at each three fold axis of symmetry is described in Catpally et al. 365 502 512 2007 .

There is a significant difference in internalization efficiency between the targeting of HepG2 and HeLa cells due to the different numbers of cell surface receptors each presents. The greater number of CD46 receptors on HeLa cells explains why gold nanoparticles presenting CD46 targeting peptides are internalized readily in HeLa cells but not in HepG2 cells. These experiments reveal significant instability of the gold nanoparticle formulation. The bovine serum albumin BSA nanoparticle ratio cannot be less than around 100 1 or the preparation becomes unstable. Certain peptides destabilized the BSA coated nanoparticles. But perhaps the most important finding was that it is difficult to load both peptides and oligonucleotides on the same nanoparticle using BSA. Direct attachment of the peptides using the thiol of a terminal cysteine was even less stable. For the experiments described below streptavidin SA was used rather than BSA. The SA particles using biotin labeled peptides and peptide nucleic acid PNA were sufficiently stable for cell targeting experiments with a cargo. In an attempt to find more stable and controlled formulations encapsidation of gold nanoparticles by RCNMV was attempted as described below.

The cytotoxicity of gold nanoparticles has been determined to be peptide dependent. Multifunctional nanoparticle formulations were tested including the SV40 virus large T Tat peptide integrin binding and known targeting peptides from the adenovirus. Extensive as yet unpublished data are available on the loading of cells with SV40 NLS. Cytotoxicity in HeLa cells is dependent on the peptide coverage on the nanoparticle as indicated in .

The antisense activity of nanoparticles containing oligonucleotides was studied in the pLuc 705 HeLa cells in an effort to study quantitatively the potency of antisense agents for alteration of gene splicing. This cell line contains a luciferase gene with an artificial intron. The intron has a splice defect that can be corrected if the oligonucleotide ON705 reaches the splice site during transcription in the nucleus. This cell line constitutes a stringent and sensitive assay for nuclear targeting. Luciferase can be produced only if the ON705 oligonucleotide is carried into the nucleus. The control uses lipofectamine LF a widely used transfection agent for introducing genes and oligonucleotides in intracellular applications. shows that gold nanoparticles Au NPs with targeting peptides were observed to be biologically available for hybridization in the cell nucleus with a 6 fold enhanced level of luciferase expression in the presence of LF relative to the ON705 only control. On the other hand these formulations had no expression above background when they were introduced into the cell culture without LF. We have performed extensive characterization of the particles using gel electrophoresis subjected the reagents to mass spectrometry and then carried out fluorescence and critical coagulation concentration CCC assays. We are convinced that the formulations themselves are sound and that the nanoparticles can target the cells as illustrated in . However shows these same particles are not functional when taken up by endocytosis. This is one of the fundamental problems with targeted nanoparticle delivery that can be solved with the plant viral capsid platform.

To avoid lengthy descriptions of the composition of plant viral capsids a nomenclature for the reagents was created. The abbreviation PVN plant virus nanoparticle refers to RCNMV when it is used in the context of a targeted drug delivery nanoparticle. PVNs are engineered modified and or infused with cargo in a variety of combinations. The abbreviations are summarized in Table 1. For example when DOX or any small molecule is infused into the PVN its acronym is added to the left of the PVN designation i.e. DOX PVN . For example if a CD46 targeting peptide is chemically attached to the exterior its acronym is added to the right of the PVN designation i.e. the construct is a PVN CD46. Finally for example if a fluorophore such as fluorescein F is used as a label on the peptide the construct is designated PVN CD46 F. Although Fluorescein is referred to a more stable fluorophore Alexa Fluor 633 is used. A multifunctional nanoparticle has more than one type of targeting peptide. For example if a PVN has both a CD46 peptide and an NLS it will be designated PVNCD46 F NLS i.e. the second peptide will be in parentheses.

RCNMV is propagated in 4 6 week old . Other systemic host plants include . Plants are maintained in a temperature controlled glasshouse at 18 26 C. Infections are initiated by rub inoculation of infectious RNA transcripts and the infection is further propagated by sap transmission of infected tissue. Virions are harvested from plants 7 10 days post inoculation. Virions are purified as previously described with the concentration determined by UV spectroscopy with an extinction coefficient of 6.46 cm mg at 260 nm. The virion concentration is confirmed using the Coomassie Plus Protein Assay Reagent Pierce Chemical Rockford Ill. . A typical purification yields 70 100 g of RCNMV per g of infected tissue.

The forgoing harvesting and purification of virus is intended for laboratory scale work and can be increased by growing more plants and also by introducing larger scale purification methods as known in the art.

To open the 60 virus pores 5 mg ml of highly purified RCNMV is dialyzed against 200 mM EDTA at pH 8 for 5 6 hr. Dialyzed RCNMV will be collected and incubated with dye molecules at a mole ratio of 1 2000 for rhodamine RHO and 1 5000 for doxorubcin DOX at 4 C. for 12 16 hr. To close the infused virus PVN after the incubation period the sample will be dialyzed against 200 mM Ca at pH 6 for 24 hr. PVNs containing RHO PVN and DOX PVN are concentrated by 10 50 sucrose gradient centrifugation 180000 g 5 C. 55 min in a SW 55 rotor with a model L8 70 Beckman ultracentrifuge to remove the excess dye molecules. The sucrose gradient is then separated and collected in 15 250 L it fractions and absorbance measurement at 260 nm. The PVN containing fractions are collected and further dialyzed and concentrated. See .

An effective protocol has been developed for the attachment of targeting peptides to the PVN surface lysines see . See Table 2 for a list of targeting peptide sequences. Each synthetic peptide has an N terminal cysteine added to permit attachment and to lysine residues on the PVN surface via an SMCC heterobifunctional linker. SMCC is added into PVN solution at a mole ratio of 1 1 and incubated for 30 min at room temperature. Excess SMCC is then removed by using a Microcon centrifugal filter device with 30 kDa molecular weight cut off. Cysteine terminated peptides CD46 or NLS are then added to the PVN SMCC conjugates for 6 hr followed by the removing of excess peptides. Alternatively lysine terminated peptides CXCR4 and HER2 are added and conjugated to SMCC linkers attached to the cysteine residues on the PVN surface. The HER2 targeting peptide forms a beta turn that is stabilized by disulfide bonds. These bonds are sufficiently stable that they are unlikely to cross react. Binary and ternary labeled PVNs are conjugated using mixtures of targeting peptides. For example a binary mixture of 50 HER2 and 50 CD46 is incubated with PVN SMCC to create a PVN HER2 CD46 formulation.

To track the PVN during experiments a C terminal fluorescein is attached to the peptide during synthesis. We have used fluorescein because this fluorophore is available at the UNC Chapel Hill peptide synthesis facility. Fluorescein has a high quantum yield but has several disadvantages such as pH sensitivity easy photobleaching and quenching in blood. Peptides from Invitrogen with an Alexa Fluor 633 Invitrogen terminal label may be more suitable. Alex Fluor 633 is more stable to photobleaching less pH sensitive and fluoresces in a wavelength range that has less overlap with RHO and DOX.

It is important to consider alternatives to peptides that target the HER2 receptor B. W. Park et al. 18 194 198 2000 . The targeting of HER 2 has also been achieved with a number of different antibodies and single chain antibodies derived from phage display experiments X. G. Li et al. 8 555 565 2001 . These sequences for the single chain antibodies in a plasmid that can be expressed in through a Material Transfer Agreement from Dr. Marks group at UCSF. The current form of the peptide is a 6 histidine tagged form. To explore alternatives one cysteine residue can be added to this sequence by site directed mutagenesis.

Cell lines that model hormone dependent MCF 7 HER2 over expressing MDA MB 435 hormone independent MDA MB 231 and P glycoprotein over expressing MCF 7Dox forms of disease will be obtained from Duke Comprehensive Cancer Medical Center Durham N.C. Cells will be grown in controlled temperature incubators in the presence of 6 7 CO2 at pH 7.4 using DMEM media BioWhittaker .

For investigating the cellular localization of peptides cells will be plated on glass coverslips and grown to 75 confluency in 6 well plates follow by incubation of PVN for various times. The coverslips will be rinsed with phosphate buffered saline and cells will be fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde in PBS for 15 min at room temperature and then rehydrated in PBS.

Flow cytometry measurements were carried out with the Becton Dickinson FACSCalibur running Cellquest Pro. Flow cytometry is sometimes referred to as FACS herein. The positive population of cells is determined by gating the right hand tail of the distribution of the negative control sample for each individual cell line at 1 . This setting can then used to determine the percentage of positive cells for each of the above markers for each individual cell line.

Molecular infusion was tested using three dyes RHO positive charge luminarosine neutral and fluorescein negative charge which were infused into opened virions 200 mM EDTA pH 8 . The PVN was exposed to a dye concentration 1000 fold higher than that of the PVN. After an incubation period the PVNs were closed by addition of Ca and Mgcombined with a titration to pH 7. Following dialysis the fluorescence of the PVN samples was lowered to near background levels. Our data show that the dyes internalized in the virion are self quenched. The self quenching of dyes is well known in the analogous experiment in liposomes where dyes are captured inside. The PVN samples were then reopened using 200 mM EDTA at pH 8 and the dyes were released. The PVN dye loaded was determined to be 90 76 and 1 molecules respectively for the three dyes quantified by comparison with a fluorescence standard curve for each dye. While some of the infused dye is released by treatment with EDTA treatment with the capsid disruption conditions of pH 10 and EDTA results in significantly greater dye release.

This experiment suggested that infusion of therapeutic agents is possible. The origin of the electrostatic dependence is likely due to the negative charge of the RNA genome as it forms a cage like lining inside the capsid . Fluorescent analysis determined that more than 1000 DOX molecules are encapsidated per PVN. The significantly higher number of DOX molecules compared to RHO may arise because DOX intercalates in nucleic acids and may therefore load more efficiently within the viral genome. The amount of infused DOX released from the PVN by retreatment with EDTA at pH 7 is reduced compared to RHO. However at pH 10 under conditions that cause virus disassembly the amount of DOX released is more than 10 times greater than measured for RHO. Dynamic light scattering and Transmission Electron Microscopy TEM analysis indicated that the integrity of the virion remained intact and encapsidation of DOX did not significantly alter the structure or integrity of the RCNMV capsid. The DOX PVN formulation was subsequently conjugated to targeting peptides as discussed in Examples 2 4.

We have observed that PVNs with targeting peptides attached to the surface can be internalized into mammalian cells. Native RCNMV was conjugated with fluorescein F labeled targeting peptides CAR F CD46 F and IBD F. The peptides contained a terminal cysteine that was conjugated to the surface exposed lysine residues on the RCNMV CP P domains by means of the heterobifunctional linker molecule succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate linker SMCC . The formulations created are PVN CAR F PVN CD46 F and PVN IBDF see Example 1 and Table 1 . The fluorescent labels served to monitor both the peptide coverage on the PVN surface and the uptake of PVNs by cells. Surface coverage can be determined in a fluorometer using a fluorescein standard curve to quantify the number of fluorophores in the sample and the UV vis spectrum to quantify the concentration of RCNMV. Based on the measured fluorescence we determined that the surface of the PVN was labeled with approximately 60 CD46 F peptides. The endocytosis of these formulations was detected using fluorescent microscopy and FACS. FACS quantifies PVN cellular uptake and cargo release in a two channel fluorescence measurement on populations of hundreds of thousands of cells. Initially a fixed PVN dosage at 0.15 nM concentration was used. FACS indicated that PVN intracellular uptake was targeting peptide dependent with PVN CD46 F internalized in HeLa cells approximately 3 fold and 2 fold higher than PVN CAR and PVN IBD respectively after 12 hour incubation.

To eliminate the possibility that the increase in fluorescence intensity was an effect of cell auto fluorescence control experiments with PVN CD46 lacking a fluorescein label and unmodified native PVN were assayed under the same experimental conditions. The fluorescence intensity in both cases was the same as the negative control untreated Hela cells . Hence the increase in fluorescence intensity from the experiment was attributed to internalization of the fluorescently labeled PVN CD46 F. The majority of PVN CD46 F was observed in the cytoplasm although there was also a component inside the nucleus. Due to the efficient PVN uptake using the CD46 receptor this peptide was chosen for subsequent studies.

A comparison study of PVN targeting HeLa and HepG2 revealed a 3 fold increase in the uptake of PVN CD46 F in HeLa cells relative to HepG2 cells data not shown . Although the CD46 peptide exhibited differences the CAR peptide showed nearly the same level of internalization in HeLa and HepG2 cell lines. The control PVN F was not internalized in either cell line. In the study the CD46 and CAR receptors were targeted. The peptide dependent variation in internalization is similar to that which we have previously reported using gold nanoparticles. A. G. Tkachenko et al. 125 4700 4701 2003 A. G. Tkachenko et al. 15 482 490 2004 . These results suggest that peptide targeting studies are transferable from one type of nanoparticle to another.

After determining that internalization required a targeting peptide be attached to the PVN additional experiments were conducted to determine the effect infusion has on PVN internalization. A dose response curve was determined in HeLa cells at the 2 hour time point over the concentration range of 10 15 to 10PVN data not shown . When RHO PVN CD46 F was administered to the cells it was found that infusion lowers the CE50 for internalization relative to PVNCD46 F. Dynamic light scattering DLS and TEM images indicate that PVNs are still intact after infusion.

RHO PVN CD46 F uptake in cells was measured by FACS after 3 6 and 9 hours. RHO PVN CD46 F was internalized in more than 95 of the cells after 3 hr incubation . By contrast the fluorescence intensity of RHO in cells was not significant at the same 3 hour time point but gradually increased to 28.6 after 9 hours of incubation. These data suggest that there is a delay of several hours between PVN internalization and RHO released. Control experiments with RHO PVN showed no fluorescence above the negative control untreated HeLa cells over a 6 hour incubation period. The RHO PVN CD46 F experiments are important for comparison with DOX loaded PVNs since the cytotoxicity of RHO is relatively low. shows that the corresponding experiments with DOX PVN CD46 F result in higher levels of PVN internalization detected by FACS. However the measured level of DOX release is low likely due to its cytotoxic effect. Overall the results are consistent with a significant enhancement in the uptake and cytotoxicity of DOX from DOX PVN CD46 F relative to free DOX.

The effect of DOX PVN CD46 on cell viability was measured using an MTT assay . HeLa cells were exposed to a free DOX DOX PVN and DOX PVN CD46 for 24 hours at DOX concentrations ranging from 0.01 uM to 12 uM prior assaying. Results indicated that 50 loss of cell viability was observed when a concentration of 7 uM of DOX infused in DOX PVN CD46 was delivered into HeLa cells IC 7 uM . On the other hand the percentage of viable cell was approximately 70 80 when the same concentration of free DOX 7 uM was delivered to the cells. DOX infused in DOX PVN also showed lower toxicity 90 of cells were viable under the same delivery conditions. This result demonstrates that delivery of DOX infused in DOX PVN CD46 has a significant increase in cytotoxicity compared to free DOX while DOX in DOX PVN is sequestered and is less available than free DOX. The PVN has two desirable properties as a drug delivery platform. First it sequesters drugs effectively in blood and other biofluids. Second it delivers drugs inside cells triggered by divalent ion concentration and with a timed release that increases the efficacy of drugs that rely on interactions with DNA. FACS was used to determine the dose response of DOX PVN CD46 F after a 2 hour exposure . Cell detachment is an early sign of apoptosis. One method to determining cell survival is to count the number of adherent cells. At a PVN concentration of 1 pM the number of adherent cells is reduced by approximately 25 . The FACS experiments in the lower panel of counts only the adherent cells. Thus the reduction in viable adherent cells accounts for the low levels of PVN internalization measured by fluorescence intensity. The number of adherent cells decreases to 50 at a DOX PVN CD46 F concentration of 100 M data not shown .

Prior to initiating major in vivo studies a preliminary murine study was conducted to gather basic pharmacokinetic data on the PVN. The in vivo study was designed to answer two key questions 1 Are PVNs acutely toxic at therapeutically relevant concentrations 2 Does the PVN formulation administered intravenously accumulate in any major organ 

Nude mice 5 per treatment were administered a 40 L intravenous injection of 12 mg mL PVN F. As a control the identical dose was administered subcutaneously to a sixth mouse. This corresponded to a 3 mg kg dosage of PVN. No adverse reactions were observed in any of the mice 3 weeks post inoculation. Based on this study it was determined RCNMV F is not acutely toxic when administered to nude mice. To monitor the fate of the PVN whole body external fluorescence scans were conducted using an Olympus OV100 whole mouse fluorescence imaging system. In the mice with intravenous delivery whole body scans were conducted at 1 2 3 4 6 12 and 24 hour periods post delivery. No fluorescence was detected at any of these time points. In addition one mouse per week for a total of three weeks was sacrificed and internal and external scans were completed to provide an indication of viral fluorophore bioaccumulation. indicates no internal accumulation of fluorescence after week 3. To verify PVN F detectability a subcutaneous dose was delivered to a nude mouse and monitored at 30 minute 12 hour 24 hour and 5 day time points. The fluorescence was easily detected at the 30 minute time point . The 12 hour time point exhibited a marked decrease in the amount of fluorescence. Fluorescence was still present 7 days post dosing though significantly reduced from the initial image.

To summarize there was no internal or external fluorescence detected. Accumulation of PVNs was not observed in any tissue or organ based on whole body fluorescence. The lack of observable fluorescence in murine whole body scans even at 15 minutes post delivery is likely due to fluorescein quenching by blood proteins. When PVN F is exposed to mouse plasma in vitro significant quenching occurs . This result was similar to that observed for polyethylene glycol PEG F conjugated CPMV where rapid quenching within 1 hour and subsequent loss of signal within 4 hours was observed. To test this effect PVN Fs were suspended separately in mouse plasma and distilled water followed by fluorescence determination using a Perkin Elmer model LS50B Luminescence Spectrometer. The concentration of each sample was formulated to simulate the in vivo study 20 L of 12 mg mL PVN F was suspended in 750 pit of sample total blood volume for the mouse was estimated at 1.5 mL . The pH of the DI water suspension was adjusted to approximately that of the pH 7.58 PVN F suspension. Fluorescence was measured at t 0 1 7 and 24 hour time points. As seen in there was a significant drop in the intensity of the PVN F fluorescence while there was minimal change in intensity for the DI water sample. As a consequence of these studies and other general concerns regarding the stability of Fluorescein Alexa Fluor 633 as well as Fluorescein should be used for labeled peptides. Alexa Fluor 633 is more photostable less prone to quenching less pH sensitive and has less spectral overlap with RHO and DOX. Despite the difficulties in detecting fluorescence in our initial study the lack of accumulation of PVNs in vital organs and their slow release by SQ administration justifies a full animal study.

