---

title: System and method for multipoint video teleconferencing
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, systems and methods disclosed herein provide for multipoint video teleconferencing via a communication network utilizing a relay communication device. The system comprises a plurality of video teleconferencing sites adapted to transmit and receive audio and video data via the relay communication device. Each video teleconferencing site is adapted to transmit audio and video data to the relay communication device. Each video teleconferencing site is adapted to receive audio and video data from the relay communication device, assemble the received audio and video data from each of the other video teleconferencing sites, and present the assembled audio and video data to one or more viewers via an audio and video interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08194116&OS=08194116&RS=08194116
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08194116
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081110
---
The present invention relates generally to network systems and more particularly to a system and method for multipoint video teleconferencing.

Conventional multipoint video teleconferencing via a network utilizes a central server which typically requires a central server for all parties to send their data which is then rebroadcast to all parties from the central server. Generally each party or remote site connects to the central server i.e. central hub point or bridge via the network and each data transfer hop flows from a source remote site to the central server and then from the central server to each destination remote site which requires at least two hops over the network one hop from the source site to the central server and another hop from the central server to each destination site. In some instances when working with user responses via a video teleconference the two hop delay over the network may often cause user interaction to be unnatural and awkward.

Conventional multipoint video teleconferencing requires all data to be transmitted to a single point i.e. the central hub for assembly and retransmission. In a satellite network this often requires the data to be transmitted to the satellite then to the central server then to the satellite again and then to the destination site. Accordingly this process incurs a two hop latency problem which significant degrades the response time on interactive applications such as video and voice i.e. audio .

As a result there currently exists a need to improve network based multipoint video teleconferencing to overcome the deficiencies of conventional techniques.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods disclosed herein provide a multipoint video teleconferencing system via multicast data transmission over a network. The multipoint video teleconferencing system of the present disclosure utilizes a multicast communication protocol such as an Internet protocol IP to transmit audio and video AV data directly to a plurality of video teleconferencing sites via a communication network such as a satellite communication network. Multicast allows one or more AV data packets to be transmitted to more than one destination via packet replications by the network. At each receiving video teleconferencing site the system collects the transmitted packets from each multicast source and processes the multiple AV streams locally at each video teleconferencing site instead of at a central server. The resultant combined AV images are processed and generated at each video teleconferencing site. In one implementation the multipoint video teleconferencing system of the present disclosure achieves low latency video teleconferencing. For example the AV data may be transmitted with a single hop delay via a satellite in the network.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a system is adapted for multipoint video teleconferencing via a communication network that utilizes a relay communication device such as satellite communication device. The system comprises a plurality of video teleconferencing sites adapted to transmit and receive audio and video data via the relay communication device. In one aspect each video teleconferencing site is adapted to transmit audio and video data to the relay communication device. In another aspect each video teleconferencing site is adapted to receive audio and video data from the relay communication device assemble the received audio and video data from each of the other video teleconferencing sites and present the assembled audio and video data to one or more viewers via an audio and video interface.

In various implementations the communication network comprises a satellite communication network and the relay communication device is adapted to receive audio and video data from each of the video teleconferencing sites replicate the received audio and video data and distribute the replicated audio and video data to each of the video teleconferencing sites. Each video teleconferencing site is adapted to capture audio and video signals via the audio and video interface and convert the captured audio and video signals into audio and video data for transmission to the other video teleconferencing sites via the relay communication device. Each video teleconferencing site is adapted to convert the assembled audio and video data into audio and video signals for presentation to the one or more viewers via the audio and video interface. Each of the video teleconferencing sites comprises the audio and video interface and wherein the audio and video interface comprises an audio input device including a microphone an audio output device including a speaker a video input device including a camera and a video output device including a video display monitor. Each of the video teleconferencing sites comprises a processing component that is adapted to assemble the received audio and video data from each of the other video teleconferencing sites and present the assembled audio and video data to the one or more viewers via the audio and video interface. Each of the video teleconferencing sites comprises a network communication interface that is adapted to communicate with the relay communication device over the communication network. Each of the video teleconferencing sites comprises an encoding component that is adapted to encode the audio and video data in a particular protocol for transmission over the communication network via the relay communication device. Each of the video teleconferencing sites comprises a decoding component that is adapted to decode the audio and video data in a particular protocol for presentation to the one or more viewers via the audio and video interface.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a method is adapted for multipoint video teleconferencing via a communication network utilizing a relay device such as satellite communication device. The method comprises communicating with the relay communication device over the communication network receiving audio and video data directly from a plurality of video teleconferencing sites via the relay communication device assembling the received audio and video data to include only audio and video data from the plurality of video teleconferencing sites and presenting the assembled audio and video data to one or more viewers via an audio and video interface.

The scope of the present invention is defined by the claims which are incorporated into this section by reference. A more complete understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of one or more embodiments. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings that will first be described briefly.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like devices illustrated in one or more of the figures.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure systems and methods disclosed herein provide a multipoint video teleconferencing system via multicast data transmission over a network such as a satellite communication network which may comprise one or more satellites in communication with a plurality of video teleconferencing sites as described herein. In one implementation the video teleconferencing system of the present disclosure utilizes a multicast communication protocol e.g. IP to transmit data e.g. AV data directly to the plurality of video teleconferencing sites via a satellite in the satellite communication network. Multicast allows one or more AV data packets to be transmitted to more than one destination via packet replications by the network. At each receiving video teleconferencing site the system collects and assembles the transmitted packets from each multicast source i.e. transmitting video teleconferencing site and processes the multiple AV data streams locally at each receiving video teleconferencing site. The resultant processed and assembled AV image streams are provided e.g. broadcast to each video teleconferencing site via an AV presentation interface. The video teleconferencing system of the present disclosure achieves low latency video teleconferencing by transmitting AV data with a single hop delay via e.g. a satellite in the satellite communication network.

The video teleconferencing system of the present disclosure provides a multicast based video teleconference that changes the source processing distribution and end processing of the system to leverage the capabilities of the network. In one implementation of the video teleconferencing system each video teleconferencing site transmits AV data over the network and allows the network to determine the replication and distribution of the data based on the packet multicast addressing. Each video teleconferencing site is adapted to process the AV data stream locally for presentation.

The system as described in various embodiments herein utilizes multicast techniques for packet networks in which each video teleconferencing site transmits one or more AV data packets over the network . In one implementation replication of the AV data packets for distribution may be done by the network or at least some type of communication device operating as a relay or distribution component in the network which is described in greater detail herein. As such in some implementations the network may be adapted to receive replicate and distribute the AV data packets to each video teleconferencing site . In turn each video teleconferencing site may be adapted to process and assemble the AV data packets for presentation or broadcasting to viewers via an AV interface which is described in greater detail herein.

Each video teleconferencing site in some embodiments may comprise at least one of two types a fixed site and or a deployable i.e. portable site. The fixed video teleconferencing sites may be housed in a structure or building with equipment connected to facility power networking etc. The deployable video teleconferencing sites may be housed in a vehicle or container that may be transported to various destinations. In this case power may come from a generator extension cord or some other source.

In one aspect at least one of the video teleconferencing sites may be selected as the presenting site or control site wherein the AV data from the selected site may be accepted as a primary display feed. Manual switching e.g. pressing a button on a console or screen may be considered an acceptable way to select the presenting site or control site.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various implementations the network may comprise one or more various types of communication networks such as satellite networks landline networks wireless networks intranet networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks such as the Internet. In other examples the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. a satellite telecommunications network a cellular telephone network etc. which may be adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as an intranet and or the Internet.

In various implementations the network is adapted to support and conduct a multiparty video conference with a scalable number of video teleconferencing sites . As such the number of video teleconferencing sites may be determined by the bandwidth of the network and screen resolution of each video teleconferencing site .

In one implementation the network comprises a satellite communication network that connects multiple video teleconferencing sites . . . in a mesh topology over a geosynchronous satellite in a single satellite hop. In one aspect the system and network is adapted to maximize video teleconferencing quality e.g. delay frame rate resolution etc. while minimizing bandwidth utilization.

The video teleconferencing sites in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . For example each video teleconferencing site may be implemented as a computing device e.g. a server a personal computer etc. for a client or group of clients e.g. one or more users or customers in communication with the network . In other examples each video teleconferencing site may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments each video teleconferencing site may be referred to as a communication hub without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring to in one embodiment each video teleconferencing site comprises an audio and video AV interface a processing component and a network communication interface . As shown in each video teleconferencing site . . . may comprise an AV interface . . . a processing component . . . and a network communication interface . . .

The AV interface in one embodiment comprises a plurality of audio and video components adapted to capture and or display audio and video signals for processing by the processing component . The audio and video components for capture may include a still image camera a video camera a microphone etc. and the audio and video components for sound and display may include a speaker a monitor etc. In one aspect captured audio and video signals i.e. AV data and information may be captured via the AV interface e.g. camera and microphone processed and encoded by the processing component in a particular format and then transmitted by the network communication interface . In another aspect transmitted audio and video signals i.e. AV data may be received by the network interface component and decoded by the processing component for display and audible presentation via the AV interface i.e. monitor and speaker .

In one aspect each video teleconferencing site comprises an audio input e.g. microphone and video input e.g. video camera . The AV data information and images are transmitted into an encoding device e.g. an MPEG module component or device to encapsulate the data in an IP multicast data stream. The encoded AV data is transmitted to the network such as a multicast enabled network during which the AV data is replicated e.g. at a satellite of a satellite communication network to each destination video teleconferencing site . Each destination video teleconferencing site comprises a decoder that receives and decodes the multicast AV data into AV broadcast form for presentation to an AV output device e.g. a video display and audio speaker . Depending on the room configuration the audio may need to suppress some of the audio signal with an echo canceller to ensure that the speaker does not feedback the audio to each of the video teleconferencing sites .

The processing component in one embodiment comprises a processor such as for example a microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processing DSP device or some other generally known processing device configured to execute instructions. In one implementation the processor is configured to process and execute operational code and instructions such as for example an x86 processor for running operating systems and applications. The processing component is adapted to process analog and or digital signals data and or information.

The network communication interface in one embodiment comprises a wireless transceiver e.g. a wireless transceiver adapted for use with one or more radio frequencies RF infrared frequencies IRF and or microwave frequencies MWF that is adapted to send and or receive information to from other network communication interfaces via the network . The network communication interface in various implementations may comprise a wireless modem transceiver communication device having an encoder a decoder a modulator a demodulator an antenna and one or more amplifiers as is generally known in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In one implementation referring to the network comprises a satellite communication network having at least one satellite that is adapted to relay and replicate data and information e.g. AV data and information transmitted from another network communication interface via the network . In various implementations network communication interface utilizes RF IRF or MWF transmitters and receivers or transceivers to digitally transmit and receive encoded digital data and information including AV digital data and information.

In various implementations the at least one satellite in the network e.g. satellite communication network is adapted to receive relay replicate and distribute data and information e.g. AV data and information between each video teleconferencing site for video teleconferencing. For example referring to the satellite of the satellite communication network is adapted to receive AV data from the video teleconferencing site replicate the received AV data e.g. a single AV data stream replicated into a plurality of AV data streams and transmit i.e. distribute the replicated AV data to each of the other video teleconferencing sites . As such in one aspect the satellite may comprise a processing component and network communication interface similar in scope and operation to the video teleconferencing sites .

The network communication interface is adapted to send and receive data and information to and from the other network communication interfaces via the network . For example the network communication interface of the video teleconferencing site is adapted to send and receive data and information to and from the other network communication interfaces . . . of the other video teleconferencing sites . . . via the network . As described herein the transmitted and received data and information may comprise AV related data and information for video teleconferencing between the video teleconferencing sites .

In various implementations of the present disclosure the network communication interface of each video teleconferencing site utilizes for example a 1 Mbps maximum for outbound traffic and for example a 4 Mbps maximum for inbound traffic at each video teleconferencing site. However it should be appreciated that these values may change depending on particular desirable and applicable implementations. The network communication interface of each video teleconferencing site is adapted to be IP compatible and the network traffic may be combined with other IP traffic and transmitted over the network via for example a satellite uplink. Similarly in the network a satellite downlink may be converted back to one or more IP data streams. In one aspect the system may be adapted to accommodate path delays associated with a satellite in geosynchronous orbit wherein the data transfer between each video teleconferencing site and the satellite i.e. to travel from the ground up to the satellite and back to the ground is approximately 250 msec to 280 msec.

In one implementation each video teleconferencing site may utilize a software module application and or program executable by the processing component which is configured to interface and communicate with each of the other video teleconferencing sites via the network . For example the video teleconferencing site is able to communicate with the other video teleconferencing sites . . . via the network for teleconferencing. As described herein the system allows multipoint video teleconferencing between a plurality of video teleconferencing sites via the network which may comprise a satellite telecommunications network. For example referring to the system allows multipoint video teleconferencing between the video teleconferencing sites via the network which may comprise a satellite telecommunications network.

Each video teleconferencing site in one embodiment may include other software modules applications and or programs as may be desired in one or more implementations to provide additional features available to each video teleconferencing site . For example such other modules applications and or programs may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network .

In various embodiments it should be appreciated that each video teleconferencing site may be associated with a particular access number e.g. satellite telephone number or a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address . In this regard the network may comprise a relay component not shown that is adapted to relay and or redirect communication information to each video teleconferencing site to facilitate multipoint video teleconferencing. For example in one implementation referring to in a satellite communications network one or more satellites in earth orbit may be utilized to relay and replicate AV data and information between each video teleconferencing site 

In various embodiments each video teleconferencing site may be associated with particular identity attributes that may be stored locally and passed with AV data and information during video teleconferencing. The identity attributes may include site credentials to authenticate or verify the identity of each video teleconferencing site during video teleconferencing. In one implementation referring to identity attributes may be passed with AV data and information as part of an AV data stream and the identity attributes may be utilized by a relay component such as one or more satellites of the network e.g. satellite communications network to properly relay or distribute AV data and information between each video teleconferencing site 

Next the AV signals are processed by the processing component of the video teleconferencing site block . In one aspect processing may include analog to digital conversion ADC of the AV signals received from the AV interface . In another aspect if the AV interface is adapted to the perform the ADC then the processing component receives AV data directly from the AV interface for processing. The processing may include filtering and or segmenting the AV data for transmission.

Next the AV data is encoded in a particular format and or protocol for transmission via the network block . In one aspect the processing component may be adapted to encode the AV data with encoding software e.g. encoding module application or program . In another aspect the network communication interface may be adapted to encode the AV data for transmission via the network . Next the encoded AV data is transmitted over the network by the network communication interface block .

Next the AV data is decoded based on a particular format and or protocol of the network block . In one aspect the processing component may be adapted to decode the AV data with decoding software e.g. decoding module application or program . In another aspect the network communication interface may be adapted to decode the AV data received from the network .

Next the decoded AV data is processed by the processing component of the video teleconferencing site block and the AV data is assembled by the processing component for broadcast via the AV interface block . In various aspects processing may include digital to analog conversion DAC of the AV data received from the network interface component . In another aspect if the network interface component is adapted to the perform the DAC then the processing component receives decoded AV data directly from the network interface component for processing. The processing may include assembling the AV data for broadcast.

In one implementation the AV data is processed and assembled in a manner to only present or broadcast AV data from other video teleconferencing sites . For example video teleconferencing site does not need to view or hear their own AV signals. As such the video teleconferencing site only broadcasts AV signals associated with the other video teleconferencing sites . . . . Next the assembled AV signals are broadcast or presented to a client or group of clients at the video teleconferencing site via the AV interface block .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure referring to the AV interface of the video teleconferencing sites may include one or more of the image display component input component cursor control component speaker component microphone component and image capture component . The processing component of the video teleconferencing sites may include one or more of the bus processing component system memory component static storage component and removable memory component . The network communication interface of the video teleconferencing sites may include the wired or wireless communication interface . In various implementations it should be appreciated that the network communication interface may be a peripheral part or an integral part of the processing component without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure the encoder and or decoder component may comprise an encoder and or decoder module application or program that is adapted to encode and or decode the AV data in an IP multicast data stream for transmission over the network via for example the satellite . The encoding and or decoding protocol may include an MPEG protocol or various other generally known AV protocols. In various implementations it should be appreciated that the encoder and or decoder component may be a peripheral part or an integral part of the processing component and or the network communication interface component without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure computing apparatus performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions included in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or removable memory component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure display component is adapted to display a plurality of sources such as AV data received from a plurality of video teleconferencing sites with a multi split screen. For example referring to the display component as part of the video teleconferencing sites is adapted to simultaneously display video signals from a plurality of sources such as from the other video teleconferencing sites in a split screen format.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes removable storage media such as removable memory component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media including wireless transceivers. In one example transmission media may take the form of radio waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing apparatus . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. wireless satellite communication link wireless cellular phone network wireless or wired LAN PTSN or various other wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computing apparatus may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in removable memory component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or various combinations of hardware and software. Where applicable various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope and functionality of the present disclosure. Where applicable various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into subcomponents having software hardware and or both without departing from the scope and functionality of the present disclosure. Where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Embodiments described above illustrate but do not limit the disclosure. It should also be understood that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the disclosure is defined only by the following claims.

