---

title: Automatic annotation of audio and/or visual data
abstract: Automatic annotation of data recorded by a device. A portion of an event may be recorded as an image, movie, sound byte, audio recording, etc., and contemporaneous to the recording, a time value (which may encode a calendar date) is determined. The time value is looked up on a calendar, and a description of the event is read from the calendar and used to automatically annotate the recording.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060558&OS=08060558&RS=08060558
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08060558
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081230
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 952 295 filed Sep. 13 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 478 125.

The invention generally relates to annotating recorded data and more particularly to automatically annotating audio and or visual data recordings based at least in part on a timing indicator.

Recent advances in recording storage and form factor technology have resulted in proliferation of personal data and media recording devices such as personal video cameras photo cameras audio recorders etc. However incident to such proliferation is tracking problem inherent to cross referencing recordings with the environment in which the recording was taken. This problem is especially applicable to storage media having large storage capacity e.g. capacity to store thousands of images many hours of video recordings tens of thousands of music recordings etc. it becomes a near insurmountable problem to accurately and consistently annotate recorded data with information to identify the context for the recorded data.

It is increasingly difficult to simply label storage devices with all of the data content therein as historically has been done e.g. labeling a tape cassette or a video cassette recorder cartridge. And with the ability to easily replace some or all of a storage device s content even with an ability to label the storage device such labeling may quickly become stale.

Associated with each of these devices are timers . The timers may be integral to the devices as illustrated or they may represent timing functionality or circuitry that receives timing data from an external source. For example the digital camera may have a receiver capable of receiving timing data originating from an external source such as the United States Naval Observatory s Master Clock USNO the Time and Frequency Division of the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST or another clock source. To allow coordination of activity between devices devices may be configured to use the same timing source. In one embodiment calendar date values may be determined from timing values. For example a timing value may represent the number of seconds since a particular date.

Also illustrated are machines and which may be personal computers personal digital assistants or other machines. Each of the machines are configured to operate a calendar application or other application associating events and times and a data transfer application such as electronic mail E mail program instant messaging system or other data transfer ability. The audio and or visual transceiver digital camera video camera and audio recorder are assumed to have a wired and or wireless communication link to some or all of the machines and by way of a network or other communication technology.

As will be described further with respect to when a device records data a time stamp from an appropriate timing device is associated with the recording. This associated time stamp is then compared against one or more calendars to identify a context for the recording. In one embodiment if a calendar indicates one or more related entities e.g. persons listed in a calendar entry or based on some other cross reference then related entities may be provided with a copy of the recording by way of the data transfer application .

A time stamp is acquired such as from an internal clock or external reference source. The time stamp information is sent to a calendar system along with at least an identifier of the user of the recording device. The calendar system may be any conventional or proprietary calendar e.g. personal corporate general etc. calendar such as the Outlook calendar program provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. database application or other application program that may associate time stamps with events hereafter generally calendar . The user s identifier may be pre associated with the user temporarily associated or prompted for during the recording process. It is assumed that an appropriate communication protocol or Application Programming Interface API is known to the recording device thus allowing the recording device to communicate with the calendar irrespective of the particular characteristics or nature of the calendar.

In response to sending the time stamp information the calendar inspects the user s calendar to see what is on the calendar for the given time stamp information. If an event is on the calendar for the time stamp information the calendar sends back to the recording device a description of an event. For example the identified user may have a calendar entry indicating that the user is attending a social gathering for the user s work group. This description of the get together is sent back to the recording device. The recording device can associate the description with the recorded part of the event and store the description and recorded part of the event in a data storage communicatively coupled to the recording device e.g. in a local attached storage wirelessly accessible remote storage or the like. If no entry is found then an error handler may be invoked or a default description used for the event.

In one embodiment the description is embedded within the recorded part of the event. For example the event may be recorded with an Exchangeable Image File EXIF format which is a standard format for storing information within digital photography image files using JPEG compression in the DIG35 promulgated by the Digital Imaging consortium see http www digitalimaging org in the graphics interchange format GIF or other data format providing for embedding data within the recorded part of the event. To prevent inadvertent hyperlinks the periods in the preceding Uniform Resource Locator URL were replaced with hyphens. In one embodiment data may be associated with the recorded part of the event to facilitate archiving indexing cataloging cross referencing reviewing and retrieving recordings.

In one embodiment the recording device sends the recorded part of the event and associated description received from the calendar system to a data transfer application program such as an E mail program. In this embodiment the calendar system also sends the data transfer application program a list of other event attendees. It will be appreciated that various techniques may be used to identify event attendees. In one embodiment the calendar sends a list of expected attendees e.g. invitees and it is later determined which attendees actually attended the event.

For example the calendar for the user of the recording device may directly reference other attendees such as by way of a meeting request that was used to schedule the event. All invited attendees or perhaps just a subset such as those meeting some criteria are used to define the list of other event attendees. For example the list of event attendees might only include those attendees that accepted the meeting request or those attendees that have a special status indicating they should be included in the list irrespective of having accepted the invitation.

In one embodiment if the calendar does not identify other event attendees other calendars perhaps based on a social or business structure may be searched to determine whether a user corresponding to the searched calendar should be in the list of attendees. For example all calendars for people in the user s work group might be searched for corresponding entries for the event. It will be appreciated that matching algorithms may be employed to compensate for manually written calendar entries for the event.

The data transfer program having received the recorded part of the event associated description and the list of other event attendees sends each attendee a copy of the recorded part of the event. In one embodiment in which the data transfer program is an E mail program the subject and or message body of the E mail message sent to attendees comprises the associated description. The subject of the E mail message or message body may also comprise statements reflecting the status of the attendee. For example if a recipient did not attend the event a standard message body might state Sorry you could not make it to the event but here is a recording of the event Similarly other messages or graphics may be sent within a message for attendees that accepted but did not go did not accept but went anyway etc.

In one embodiment categories and or user preferences may alter distribution of data to attendees. For example for certain events such as holiday gatherings or birthdays everyone in a work group social group etc. may automatically receive the recording of the event irrespective of whether they attended the event. However user preferences may be used to override sending such messages.

The recording device can then store the recorded part of the event along with the description of the event and the list of event attendees in a data storage communicatively coupled to the recording device as well as send the recorded part of the event description and list attendees to a data transfer program for distribution to event attendees. Thus in this embodiment the data transfer program need only communicate with the recording device in order to transfer event recordings to attendees. It will be appreciated that other communication configurations may be used such as using a central repository for recorded parts of events and associated event attendees where the transfer program retrieves recording and attendees from the central repository.

The system may also include embedded controllers such as Generic or Programmable Logic Devices or Arrays PLD PLA GAL PAL Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC single chip computers smart cards or the like and the system is expected to operate in a networked environment using physical and or logical connections to one or more remote systems through a network interface modem or other pathway. Systems may be interconnected by way of a wired or wireless network including an intranet the Internet local area networks wide area networks cellular cable laser satellite microwave Blue Tooth type networks optical infrared or other carrier.

The invention may be described by reference to program modules for performing tasks or implementing abstract data types e.g. procedures functions data structures application programs etc. that may be stored in memory and or storage devices and associated storage media e.g. hard drives floppy disks optical storage magnetic cassettes tapes flash memory cards memory sticks digital video disks biological storage as well as transmission environments such as network over which program modules may be delivered in the form of packets serial data parallel data or other transmission format.

Illustrated methods and corresponding written descriptions are intended to illustrate machine accessible media storing directives or the like which may be incorporated into single and multi processor machines portable computers such as handheld devices including Personal Digital Assistants PDAs cellular telephones etc. An artisan will recognize that program modules may be high level programming language constructs or low level hardware instructions and or contexts that may be utilized in a compressed or encrypted format and may be used in a distributed network environment and stored in local and or remote memory.

Thus for example with respect to the illustrated embodiments assuming machine operates as a recording device for an event then remote devices may respectively be a machine operating a calendar for a user of the recording device and an a remote clock source to identify when the recording device was operating. It will be appreciated that remote machines may be configured like machine and therefore include many or all of the elements discussed for machine. It should also be appreciated that machines may be embodied within a single device or separate communicatively coupled components.

Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention with reference to illustrated embodiments it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. And even though the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments it is understood other configurations are contemplated. In particular even though expressions such as in one embodiment in another embodiment or the like are used herein these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations. As used herein these terms may reference the same or different embodiments and unless indicated otherwise embodiments are combinable into other embodiments.

Consequently in view of the wide variety of permutations to the above described embodiments the detailed description is intended to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. What is claimed as the invention therefore is all such modifications as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

