---

title: Photocatalytic methods for preparation of electrocatalyst materials
abstract: The invention relates to methods of preparing metal particles on a support material, including platinum-containing nanoparticles on a carbon support. Such materials can be used as electrocatalysts, for example as improved electrocatalysts in proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEM-FCs).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08609573&OS=08609573&RS=08609573
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08609573
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080702
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 329 853 filed on Jan. 11 2006 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 643 283 filed Jan. 12 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under CRADA No. SC04 01686 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to catalysts in particular to electrocatalysts comprising metal particles supported on an electrically conducting support material.

Fuel cells have been extensively studied for numerous applications including automotive applications. One of the key components of a fuel cell is the electrocatalyst the nature of which will impact on both performance and cost of the fuel cell. A typical electrocatalyst is formed from platinum particles on a carbon support. The electrochemical reactions for a fuel cell occur on the surface of the platinum particles and thus for a given amount of platinum smaller particles are preferred in order to obtain higher utilization of the platinum as a catalyst. However there is often an aggregation problem for smaller platinum particles on the carbon support when exposed to fuel cell conditions the aggregation of the particles requiring additional platinum to ensure a given level of performance. In addition the tremendous demand for platinum has greatly increased its cost and thus reducing the amount of platinum used in a fuel cell would greatly aid commercialization of this technology.

In a typical proton exchange membrane PEM fuel cell FC the PEM is sandwiched between two electrodes an anode and a cathode. The fuel cell includes a supply of fuel such as hydrogen gas to the anode where the hydrogen is converted to hydrogen ions protons and electrons. Oxygen is supplied to the cathode where the oxygen hydrogen ions conducted through the PEM and electrons conducted through an external circuit combine to form water. Electrocatalysts are used to facilitate these electrode reactions. For better fuel cell performance the catalytically active material platinum should be in contact with an electron conducting material such as carbon black that conducts the electrons and a proton conductor the PEM that conducts the protons. However in a conventional PEM fuel cell if platinum is located in pores of the carbon black contact with the PEM may be lost reducing effectiveness.

The invention relates to methods of preparing metal particles on a support material including platinum containing nanoparticles on a carbon support. The invention also relates to electrocatalysts using such materials including catalytically active metal particles on a support material and other applications of such electrocatalysts. In particular examples the invention relates to improved electrocatalysts for proton exchange membrane fuel cells PEM FCs .

In improved methods of electrocatalyst manufacture a photocatalyst is used to seed formation of metal particles such as platinum containing nanoparticles on the surface of a support material such as carbon. As the photocatalyst can readily be well dispersed over the surface of the support material the metal particles are also well dispersed particularly when compared with prior art approaches. The presence of numerous well dispersed photocatalyst sites on the support material also leads to uniform particle size distributions again compared with conventional approaches. Further any undesirable organic component of the photocatalyst can be converted into additional carbon support material by pyrolysis after formation of the metal particles.

Electrocatalysts according to the present invention include metal particles where one or more metal species are be present in the particles including platinum platinum alloys such as platinum iron alloys and the like. By using a mixture of metal precursor compounds alloy particles can be formed on a support material including platinum iron alloy particles.

A method for making an electrocatalyst comprises providing a mixture including a photocatalyst a reductant and a metal compound and illuminating the mixture so as to form metal particles by reduction of the metal compound. The metal particles are supported on a support material to form the electrocatalyst. The support material is electrically conducting being a good electron conductor. An example support material is a carbon containing material such as carbon black. The photocatalyst may be an organometallic compound such as a metal porphyrin for example tin porphyrin or antimony porphyrin. The reductant may be for example ascorbic acid and hydroquinone. Illumination may include exposure to visible and or UV light.

The mixture includes at least one metal compound such as a platinum compounds iron compound or combination thereof. A mixture of metal compounds may be used to form alloy particles including platinum alloy particles such as iron platinum alloy particles. The metal particles may be nanoparticles for example having a median diameter of less than 100 nm such as between 1 and 10 nm.

The support material may be present in the illuminated mixture or may be combined later. In one approach the photocatalyst is dispersed on the support material surface and then the photocatalyst coated support material is combined with the reductant and the metal compound into the mixture. The photocatalyst may be dispersed over the surface of the support material by dissolving or suspending the photocatalyst and support material in a common solvent then evaporating the solvent. Illumination may occur during and or after combination. In another approach the metal particles are formed during illumination of a mixture that does not include the support material and the support material and metal particles are combined later. For example a suspension of support material such as a carbon suspension may be combined with a suspension of metal particles. The suspension of metal particles may be the mixture after illumination or additional filtering may be performed.

An improved method for making an electrocatalyst comprises forming metal particles on a support material having a surface photocatalyst dispersed on its surface by photo reduction of a metal compound. An additional pyrolysis step can be used to convert any organic components present such as the photocatalyst to additional carbon support material.

Examples of the present invention include electrocatalysts having metal particles supported by an electrically conducting support material and methods of fabricating such electrocatalysts.

Improved electrocatalysts can be fabricated using illumination of a mixture including one or more metal precursor compounds a photocatalyst and a reductant to produce metal particles through the reduction of the metal precursor compound. A photocatalyst such as an organometallic photocatalyst may be dispersed over the surface of a support material or in another approach dispersed through a mixture not including the support material and used to seed the formation of highly dispersed metal particles. In the case of electrocatalysts including platinum containing particles on a carbon support the present invention allows the utilization of platinum to be increased reducing the amount of platinum needed in fuel cell applications. The formation of particles within the fine pores of a carbon support may also be prevented.

As the photocatalyst can be well dispersed over the surface of the support material the resulting metal particles are also well dispersed. The metal particles also have more uniform and controlled sizes compared with previous approaches.

The metal particles may be substantially a single metal species such as platinum particles or contain a plurality of metal species for example in the form of an alloy particle. The metal particles may be platinum containing particles such as substantially pure platinum or platinum alloys such as platinum iron alloys or other species of catalytically active material. Particles may be nanoparticles having a dimension less than 1 micron and may be substantially spheroidal.

Example electrocatalysts according to the present invention include nanostructured metal particles having a diameter of between approximately 1 nanometer and 10 nanometers supported on a surface of a support material. Pyrolysis for example under ammonia or other inert atmosphere can be used to convert organic compounds into a part of the support material for example as carbon formed by the pyrolysis. This may increase the thermal stability of the particles and prevent aggregation. For some applications the pyrolysis step may not be necessary.

In conventional platinum carbon electrocatalysts a large number of platinum particles do not take part in the reactions of the electrode layers. This results in low platinum utilization. Additionally the electrolyte cannot effectively penetrate into the fine pores of the carbon where many platinum particles are located. The catalyst is inactive if it is not in contact with the electrolyte. This wastage of platinum leads to a reduced proton formation under PEM fuel cell conditions and is a reason for low platinum utilization.

Photocatalysts which may be used include one or more porphyrins such as metal porphyrins or free base porphyrin or other organometallic materials. Preferably the photocatalyst yields a long lived excited triplet state on exposure to visible or UV light and gives a radical anion or cation by interaction with the reductant.

Platinum particles are formed in the presence of photocatalysts such as tin porphyrin under illumination by UV or visible light by reduction of platinum precursor compounds.

Photocatalytic methods of platinum nanostructure formation are described in detail in Y. J. Song Y. Yang C. Medforth E. Pereira A. K. Singh H. Xu Y. Jiang C. J. Brinker F. van Swol J. A. Shelnutt Controlled Synthesis of 2 D and 3 D Platinum Particles Using Porphyrin Photocatalysts Journal of the American Chemical Society 126 2 635 645 2004. Further details are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 627 048 to Shelnutt et al. and 4 568 435 to Shelnutt. As described therein tin porphyrin and antimony porphyrin were used to reduce metal ions to metals through a photoinduced reaction. Metal precursors included metal nitrates and metal chlorides metal compounds including compounds of uranium mercury copper lead gold silver or platinum. Reductants included ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid triethylamine triethanolamine and sodium nitrite. Examples described therein may be used in embodiments of the present invention.

The photocatalyst based method gives well controlled size and uniformity to the formed platinum particles.

The photocatalyst can act as an initiator for the growth of small metal particles providing a precise method for producing a large initial concentration of seeds. This leads to well controlled size and uniformity of the metal particles such as platinum particles. In some embodiments of the present invention the photocatalyst may be dispersed over an electrically conducting support material and used to photocatalyze formation of metal particles onto the support material.

The illumination step may include exposure to visible and or UV light or other radiation. The illuminated mixture may be agitated for even illumination of mixture components. Optical components such as fibers may be used to introduce illumination into the bulk of a mixture. The mixture may further include phosphors or other light emitting elements with light emission stimulated by an external energy source.

Reductants which may be used include hydroquinone ascorbic acid including all salts such as sodium ascorbate and other reductants known in the art.

Metal precursors are the metal compounds that are photocatalytically reduced and may include one or more of the following metal atoms Pt Sn Fe Co Cr Ni Nb Cu Mo Mn Pd Ru Zr Ir Rh or V. Alloy particles may be formed by using a corresponding mixture of metal precursors.

For example a cobalt compound and platinum compound may both be catalytically reduced to form a platinum cobalt alloy particle and the alloy composition controlled by the ratio of the metal precursor compounds. In representative examples metal particles may include alloys of platinum and at least one metal from the group consisting of Fe Co Pd and Ni.

The support material may be carbon or other electrically conducting material such as an electron conducting polymer such as polymer having an electron delocalized backbone or in the alternative a metal oxide or a metal nitride. The support material may be particulate a sheet web fibrous or other form as desired. The support material such as carbon black or other form of carbon may be a commercial product and may further be treated with ammonia or other gas prior to use.

Examples of the present invention include two approaches to locating the metal particles on the surface of the support material firstly an in situ approach where metal particles are prepared in the presence of the support material and secondly a separated method where metal particles are prepared separately from the support material and then adsorbed onto the support material.

Illustrative approaches to in situ preparation are now described in which the photocatalyst is located on the surface of the support material and the metal particles form in situ on the surface of the support material.

In a first approach photocatalytic molecules are dispersed on the surface of a carbon support. Under visible UV light the carbon support is mixed in solution with a metal precursor and a reductant. Alternatively the metal precursor may be added dropwise. The resulting suspension is filtered to obtain a solid material and the solid material is then dried to obtain a final product.

In a second in situ preparation method molecules of the photocatalytic material are dispersed on the surface of a carbon support. Under visible UV light the carbon support is mixed in solution with the metal precursor and reductant. Alternatively the metal precursor is added dropwise. The suspension is filtered to obtain a solid material. The solid material is then dispersed into a solution for example in chloroform to dissolve organic components such as porphyrin. The suspension is filtered again to obtain a second solid material and this second solid is then dried to obtain the final product.

In a further in situ preparation a solid material is obtained by filtering a suspension as in the first method described above. The solid material is then heated in a pyrolysis method under ammonia or other gas to convert any residual organic materials to inorganic materials. For example organic components e.g. of the photocatalyst may be converted to carbon by pyrolysis and this carbon is added to the support material.

In the in situ preparation approach the photocatalyst is highly dispersed on the surface of the support material which may be carbon black. An impregnation method may be used. The carbon support can then be exposed to visible UV light and a solution including at least one metal precursors and at least one reductant.

A further treatment to the final product may be used to eliminate solvents and impurities. The concentration of metal reaction time and temperature can be controlled to obtain highly dispersed nanosized metal or alloy particles on the carbon support material. Further parameters which may be adjusted include photon absorption efficiency and the dispersion and amount of the photocatalyst.

The metal particles may be formed on the photocatalyst under visible UV light in a mixture including one or more metal precursors a reductant and the photocatalyst. The metal particles are formed prior to the introduction of the support material to the mixture. The formed metal particles are then dispersed on the surface of the carbon support. As above a further treatment to the final product may be used to eliminate solvents and other impurities. Parameters such as photocatalyst concentration metal precursor concentration reductant concentration illumination time and temperature can be controlled in order to obtain highly dispersed nanosized metal or alloy particles.

In one approach a mixture for example a suspension or solution is provided including one or more of each of the following a metal compound metal precursor that is subsequently reduced to metal a reductant reductant and a photocatalyst. The mixture is illuminated exposed to visible and or UV light. The metal precursors can be added dropwise. Metal particles are formed by reduction of the metal compounds and the resulting suspension of metal particles is mixed with a second suspension comprising the support material forming a suspension including the support material the metal particles and the photocatalyst. The second suspension may be a suspension of carbon particles. This combined suspension is then filtered to obtain a solid material in which the support material becomes a support for the metal particles and the solid is then dried to obtain the final product. Pyrolysis can be used to convert any residual organic materials to carbon.

A second approach is now described. Under visible UV light a metal precursor reductant and photocatalyst are mixed to form a suspension solution. The metal precursors may be added dropwise. This suspension is mixed with a second suspension including the carbon support to form a new suspension. The new suspension is then filtered to obtain a solid material. So far this method is similar to that of the first separate method. The solid material is then dispersed in a solution such as in chloroform to dissolve organic compounds such as porphyrin. This suspension is then filtered to obtain a new solid material. The new solid material is then dried to obtain the final product.

A third approach is now described. This preparation method is similar to the first approach described above. However the solid material obtained by filtering the suspension is then subjected to a heat treatment such as pyrolysis for example under ammonia or other gas to form a final product that is an entirely inorganic material in which organic components have been converted to carbon.

A fourth approach is now described. Under visible UV light a metal precursor reductant and photocatalyst are mixed to form a suspension solution with metal seeds therein. The metal precursors may be added dropwise. The metal seeds are removed from the suspension solution and then mixed with a second suspension including the carbon support a reductant and additional metal precursor to form a new suspension. The new suspension is then filtered to obtain a solid material. The solid material is then dried to obtain the final product.

The electrocatalyst can include organic inorganic hybrid materials such as the photocatalyst used to seed the metal particle formation and can be used in a fuel cell as long as the presence of the organic compound does not degrade fuel cell performance. However a further thermal treatment such as pyrolysis can be used to convert organic components into carbon the carbon effectively becoming additional support material for the metal particles. The thermal method forms structural catalytic sites on the surface of the carbon as illustrated below 

Scheme I above illustrates the formation of iron nitrogen centers formed on a carbon support material using a pyrolysis method. Such metal sites are catalytically active for the oxygen reduction reaction ORR for example as shown by Anders Widel v Pyrolysis of iron and cobalt porphyrins sublimated onto the surface of carbon black as a method to prepare catalysts for Oreduction 2493 2502 38 17 1993 and in Lef vre M. Dodelet J. P. Bertrand P. O 2 Reduction in PEM Fuel Cells Activity and Active Site Structural Information for Catalysts Obtained by the Pyrolysis at High Temperature of Fe Precursors B104 11238 11247 2000 .

Structural catalytic active sites can be formed by pyrolysis of one or more metal organometallic compounds such as metalloporphyrins on a carbon support or other support material. Scheme I only shows iron Fe present but one or more metal species may be used such as Pt Sn Fe Co Cr Ni Nb Cu Mo Mn Pd Ru Zr Ir Rh or V.

Hence metalloporphyrins such as tin porphyrin may be used as photocatalysts and then a heat treatment such as pyrolysis used to produce catalytic sites on the surface of the support material. These catalytic sites may be used for oxygen reduction for example in a fuel cell application. Alternatively metal porphyrins or their homo or hetero aggregates may be used primarily as a photocatalyst and another used primarily for formation of metal macrocycles on the surface of a support material.

Pyrolysis may occur under an atmosphere such as ammonia or nitrogen. Other metal particles may be deposited on the surface of the support either prior to or after the pyrolysis step. One or more species of metalloporphyrins may be used for example for photocatalysis based formation of metal particles and or for production of catalysts for oxygen reduction. The term porphyrin as used herein unless otherwise indicated is not limited to the 20 carbon organic moiety but also includes porphyrin derivatives and related macrocyclic compounds.

In examples below platinum particles dendrites were deposited on carbon black particles. However the general approach may be applied to other metal particles on other support materials.

Unlike chemical and photochemical reductions a single photocatalyst can repeatedly reduce many metal cations to metal atoms which can be deposited in the vicinity of the photocatalyst to form nanostructures. Hence to grow platinum nanoparticles well dispersed on carbon black using an in situ photocatalytic method the first issue is how to evenly locate the photocatalyst molecules in this example SnOEP Sn IV octaethylporphyrin dichloride on carbon black.

The carbon black used was hydrophobic and was difficult to suspend in water even after 5 minutes of mild sonication. However the carbon black was readily suspended in chloroform. Given that SnOEP is also hydrophobic and can be readily dissolved in chloroform the carbon black and SnOEP were both dissolved in chloroform and then the solvent was slowly evaporated making the dissolved SnOEP molecules deposit on the carbon black.

Using this evaporation method SnOEP was successfully deposited on carbon black which is ready for use in growing platinum nanostructures in situ. The distribution of platinum nanoparticles on carbon black discussed in Example 2 below e.g. suggests that SnOEP is well dispersed on carbon black.

The photocatalytic method has been used to control the size and uniformity of platinum nanoparticles grown on surfactants using ascorbic acid to reduce a platinum complex under tungsten light irradiation. In this example platinum nanostructures were grown on carbon black with size and uniformity control using the photocatalytic method.

Eighty minutes illumination of a stirred aqueous mixture 20 mL containing SnOEP 0.4 mg deposited on carbon black 10 mg prepared by the evaporation method platinum complex 10 mM and ascorbic acid 75 mM led to a black slurry. When stirring was discontinued a black precipitate settled to the bottom of the reaction vessel and the supernatant was colorless and transparent. This suggests that the reaction is complete since the original color of the Pt complex is yellow. The colorless supernatant also indicates that most of the nanostructured Pt is associated with the carbon black.

Globular platinum dendrites were observed and all the platinum dendrites were attached to carbon black as shown in . The shape of the Pt nanoparticles matches the curvature of the carbon surface indicating that the nanoparticles are grown on the carbon rather than attaching to the carbon after formation. There may be chemical connections between the Pt and carbon which enhance the stability of an electrocatalyst and which would be desirable for fuel cell applications.

The product contains various sizes of nanoparticles ranging from 2 3 nm particles embryonic particle to large dendrites up to 70 nm in diameter . The wide size distribution suggests that the photocatalytic reaction does not function as well in controlling size and uniformity as in the separated approach. Most likely under the conditions used the carbon black absorbs most of the light and the tin IV porphyrin cannot efficiently sensitize the Pt growth reaction.

In this method for growing platinum nanoparticles on carbon black all the platinum as prepared was associated with carbon black and was well dispersed.

A two step titration of platinum complex led to the size reduction of Pt particles on carbon black. To reduce the average size the platinum complex stock solution which can provide a 45 wt Pt loading on carbon was reduced on carbon black by two step addition of the Pt complex to the reaction vessel.

10.2 mg of CB 1.1 mL of 20 mM KPtCland 8.9 mL of water were added to a 25 mL glass vial and sonicated for five minutes. 10 mL of 0.15 M AA was then added and the reaction mixture was illuminated for 30 minutes under stirring. The obtained black slurry was then centrifuged and the supernatant was removed. The black precipitates were washed five times each time with 20 mL of Nanopure water. The cleaned precipitate was dried in oven at 65 C. overnight. The powder was then added to a clean glass vial. 1.1 mL of 20 mM KPtCland 8.9 mL of water was added and the mixture was sonicated for 5 minutes. 10 mL of 0.15 M AA was added and the mixture was stirred and illuminated for 30 minutes.

The average size of the Pt particles prepared using a titration method appears to be smaller than that of particles prepared using the previous method .

The titration method may be viewed as a seeding method. Namely the first addition of the metal source led to the formation of platinum seeds which then autocatalytically grew into larger nanostructures as the second half of the platinum complex was added. The size reduction of the titration method may be due to one or more of the following factors the low concentration of the platinum complex might help form more nucleation sites and simultaneously suppress the autocatalytic growth of each nucleation site the nucleation sites formed during the first titration might somehow lose autocatalytic property due to the removal of species during cleaning method such as Cl or oxidized AA which may be important for autocatalytic growth of the particles or the autocatalytic property of the particles on carbon black is not as good as those of the unsupported ones. However the exact mechanism is unclear.

In the previous examples ascorbic acid was used as the reductant to synthesize platinum nanostructures on carbon. Herein the synthetic systems are extended to use two alternative reductants NaBHand NH NH . Unlike ascorbic acid these strong reductants rapidly reduce the Pt complex and the reaction may be too fast for photocatalytic control leading to non dendritic growth and less uniform particle sizes.

10 mg carbon black and 10 mL of aged 2 mM KPtClaqueous solution were added to a 25 mL glass vial followed by sonication for 5 minutes to allow the suspension of carbon black in the mixture. The addition of 10 mL of 150 mM ascorbic acid sodium borohydride or hydrazine led to a black slurry under illumination and stirring for 30 minutes. After discontinuation of the stirring a black precipitate and colorless supernatant were observed indicating that the reduction was complete.

When 75 mM of ascorbic acid was used as the reductant most of the platinum nanoparticles were grown on carbon black as shown in . more clearly shows that the particles have a size distribution including 2 3 nm particles and larger particles up to 35 nm in diameter. As the same concentration of sodium borohydride was used in the synthesis similarly almost all of the platinum has been reduced on carbon. However the resultant nano scaled platinum particles are not Pt dendrites and have less regular shapes and a have wider size distribution in the range from 2 to 50 nm . Using hydrazine as the reductant only large platinum nanospheres with a diameter of about 500 nm were obtained as shown in . It is uncertain whether the nanospheres were grown on carbon or not.

Taking into account of the size and shape control of the nanostructured platinum the photocatalytic reaction system of ascorbic acid tetrachloroplatinate potassium and carbon black is preferred. Ascorbic acid may play a role for the formation of platinum nanoparticles such as encouraging dendritic growth via a weak surface interaction with the platinum. The structure of ascorbic acid does not contain a strong ligation atom such as nitrogen atoms in hydrazine.

In summary show TEM images of platinum nanostructures synthesized using various reductants on carbon black. A and B with ascorbic acid 25 mL glass vial 11 mg carbon black KPtCl 2 mM AA 75 mM C and D with NaBH 25 mL glass vial 11 mg carbon black KPtCl 2 mM NaBH4 75 mM E and F with NH NH 25 mL glass vial 9 mg carbon black KPtCl 2 mM N2H4 75 mM . All these reductants can be successfully used to reduce the platinum complex but it appears that ascorbic acid gives the best size and shape control especially when a photocatalyst is employed.

It has been shown that a high concentration of SnOEP dissolved in SDS micelles leads to increased size reduction in the platinum nanoparticles due to a better light absorbance by the large amount of SnOEP on the surface. In other words use of a surfactant provides a promising avenue to overcome the light absorbance issue introduced by the presence of carbon black. However it was not yet clear whether the presence of SDS has any influence on the fuel cell performance of the as prepared platinum particles. The following focuses on the SDS effect on fuel cell performance.

100 mg of carbon black was added to 100 mL of 0.15 M ascorbic acid aqueous solution and the mixture was sonicated for 10 minutes to suspend the carbon black. 22 mL of 20 mM aged KPtClaqueous salt and 78 mL of water were then added. The mixture was stirred and illuminated with a dual light source for 1 hour. After discontinuation of the stirring colorless supernatant and black precipitate at the bottom of the reaction vessel were observed. The supernatant was mechanically removed. The remaining black slurry was then transferred into two 45 mL centrifuge tubes. To each tube was added 50 mL Nanopure water followed by vortexing at 3500 RPM for 10 minutes and centrifugation at 3500 RPM for two minutes to precipitate out the products. Again the 45 mL of supernatant was removed. This purification method was repeated for each tube for 5 times. The obtained products were then left in an oven at 65 C. to dry overnight. The total weight of the dried product was 0.186 g.

Membrane electrode assemblies MEAs were prepared using the above catalyst 45 wt platinum nanoparticles grown on carbon black with and without the subsequent addition of SDS to the electrode ink. This procedure gives the same type and concentration of Pt particles on the surface and determines the effect of surfactant applied after the particles are grown.

The electrode ink for one side of an electrode consisted of 16.7 mg of the catalyst 45 wt platinum nanostructures on carbon black 133 mg Nafion solution Aldrich 5 wt Nafion 600 mg 18 M water 500 mg reagent grade isopropyl alcohol and 0 or 13.8 mg 40 mM SDS for SDS free and SDS containing electrode respectively.

The electrode ink was sonicated for 20 30 seconds to disperse the catalyst particles and then the ink was brush painted onto a Nafion membrane which was held flat on a vacuum hot plate at 60 C. This method resulted in a platinum loading of approximately 1 mg cmon one side of the electrode after accounting for waste. The other side of the electrode was painted using the same recipe and procedure. After drying the two MEAs with and without SDS were put into the standard fuel cell test hardware Fuel Cell Technologies with SGL 21BC carbon paper as gas diffusion and backing layers.

The MEAs were hydrated under hydrogen anode and nitrogen cathode at 25 C. and 100 RH for 2 hours. Cyclic voltammagrams were acquired to obtain a qualitative measurement of the electrochemically active surface area ECA of both the SDS free electrode and the SDS containing electrode.

For the SDS free cell a voltage of 0.5V was drawn and the current over time was recorded to measure the break in behavior of this cell. shows the break in curve at 0.5 V for the SDS free cell. The current initially increases and then begins to slowly decline over the course of the test. For the platinum particles grown on carbon black heat treatment can be used to stabilize the performance of the electrode. At any rate the performance of this cell approximately 1300 mA cmat 0.5 V is reasonable good for this unoptimized MEA preparation.

As can be seen in the current density at 0.1 V slowly increased over the course of the 21 hour test. This is probably an indication of the SDS containing electrode cleaning itself during fuel cell operation. The mode of cleaning remains unknown but it is likely that the SDS was slowly oxidized at platinum reaction sites over time.

The performance of each cell after the break in period is shown in . The SDS containing cell clearly had much lower performance than the SDS free cell which was suggested by their slow break in behavior.

Cyclic voltammetry was performed after the break in and performance test of each cell. In the case of the SDS free cell the ECA declined after break in period and the performance test as is reflected by the lower peak current in the low voltage region of the CV. The slightly declining performance of the cell during break in is consistent with this observation. From a qualitative standpoint the ECA of the SDS containing cell increased higher peak currents after the break in and performance test period. This result might be expected if there was a cleaning method of the SDS containing electrode during the break in period. The results show that 40 mM SDS in the electrode ink had a detrimental effect on the performance of the cell. The SDS containing cell performance was indicative of a contaminated platinum surface presumably by the SDS surfactant. Some cleaning of the catalyst surface occurred during break in and performance test as evidenced by the increase of ECA during the course of test. However the performance of the SDS containing cell never approached that of the SDS free cell. The ECA of the SDS free cell decreased slightly during the test.

Globular platinum particles were grown on carbon black. A typical TEM image shows that the particles match the curvature of supporting carbon black indicating the formation of chemical bonding at the Pt C interface. The chemical bonding between nanostructured platinum and its supporting carbon black may be significant for fuel cell applications in that the bonding can slow down the degradation of the electrocatalyst and elongate its durability in fuel cell applications. Further studies were made of the Pt C interface.

Platinum particles grown on carbon black were separated by centrifugation at 3000 rpm for 2 minutes followed by removal of the supernatant addition of fresh nanopure water and re suspension of the products by mild sonication. This procedure was repeated for three times to be certain that all the by products were removed. The cleaned materials were dried in oven at 65 C. for overnight before XPS measurements.

A two step process where Pt seeds were produced prior to the introduction of carbon black led to increased control of the size and size distribution of Pt particles on the carbon black. The two step process included a first step wherein a Pt containing salt was mixed with a photocatalyst and a reductant and exposed to UV light. No carbon black was included in the first step and Pt seeds were produced. Thereafter the Pt seeds were mixed with carbon black and subjected to sonication followed by the addition of more reductant and Pt containing salt and stirring.

In the 2 step process method used for electrocatalyst preparation Pt seeds were prepared separately using a photocatalyst step 1 followed by the Pt seed photocatalyst system Pt seeds being supported on carbon for the Pt dendrite growth step step 2 . The method resulted in preparing electrocatalysts with nanodendrite Pt and afforded for Pt particle size control by varying the Pt seed photocatalyst carbon loading i.e. sites for Pt dendrite growth and or decreasing the Pt seed size. A possible mechanism includes three basic steps 1 preparation of the Pt seeds with bound tin porphyrin SnP 2 adsorption of the Pt seeds stabilized by SnP onto carbon black and 3 growth of the Pt seeds into dendrites on the carbon black surfaces. In addition it is suggested that the Pt seeds were stabilized by adsorbed SnP.

The Pt seed generation step included combining the photocatalyst usually tin porphyrin and the reductant usually ascorbic acid in a Pt solution usually a KPtClsolution followed by exposure of the mixture to UV light for an extended period typically 30 mins . This process resulted in Pt seed nucleation and growth. The mechanism for Pt seed formation through photocatalysis can be summarized by the chemical reaction equations below wherein the exposure of the SnP to light in the presence of absorbic acid AA and Pt ions results in Pt nucleation. SnP SnP AA SnP 2SnP Pt 2SnP Pt

The Pt nanodendrite growth step includes supporting the previously prepared Pt seeds on carbon black by means of sonication. Thereafter the Pt seeds supported on the carbon black are combined with a Pt solution and reductant in order to provide the final state of the electrocatalyst.

Candidate photocatalysts were screened for application in the Pt seed preparation step with Sn IV porphyrins tested as a function of their charge characteristics. The various Sn IV porphyrins that were tested sample names and results are summarized in Table 1.

The Pt seeds were all prepared in 20 ml vials using 1 ml of 20 mM KPtCl 264 mg of ascorbic acid 9 ml of nanopure water and 10 ml of the selected Sn IV porphyrin. Note that the pH was adjusted to neutral for Pt seed preparations using SnProtoP SnUroP and SnTCPP. The effect of the different photocatalysts on the Pt seed preparation is summarized in Table 1 with a visual representation shown in . In summary the charge of the Sn IV porphyrin photocatalyst played a key role on the physical properties of the Pt seeds with large aggregates of Pt seeds resulting from the use of Sn IV porphyrins having a neutral or positive charge. In contrast separation of the Pt seeds was observed when the negatively charged porphyrin SnTPPS4 was used to prepare the Pt seeds. It is speculated that the repulsive forces existing between the negatively charged Sn IV porphyrin molecules and the negatively charged Pt precursor KPtCl ions aid in the observed separation in Pt seeds. In addition it is suggested that the SnTPPS4 serves as a capping agent on metal seeds i.e. the metal seeds are capped by the SnTPPS4. This photocatalyst was selected as the standard for the electrocatalyst preparation using the 2 step process method.

Several bi mixtures of photocatalyst namely SnTPPS4 CoTPPS4 SnTPPS4 NiTPPS4 and SnTPPS4 FeTPPS4 were tested in order to investigate their effect on Pt seed preparation. Synthesis was completed by combining 5 mL of 168 M SnTPPS4 aq with 5 mL of metallic porphyrin and 1 mL of 20 mM KPtCl. This mixture was briefly sonicated and 0.264 g of ascorbic acid was dissolved in 9 mL of nanopure water in a separated container. The two solutions were then combined and irradiated with dual light for 30 minutes under stirring. TEM images of the seeds prepared with the bi mixed porphyrins are shown in . The SnTPPS4 NiTPPS4 mixture gave the best results within these comparisons. Thus it is appreciated that bi mixtures tri mixtures and the like can be used to produce Pt seeds. However as stated above the negatively charged porphyrin SnTPPS4 was used to prepare the Pt seeds for the disclosed electrocatalysts.

The Pt nanodendrite electrocatalysts were prepared following the procedure shown in Table 2 with the amount of Pt seed solution used to make different electrocatalyst samples shown in Table 3. show the effect of varying the amount of Pt seed solution amount on the size of the Pt dendrites with providing an image of an electrocatalyst prepared without Pt seeds for comparison. There is an apparent reduction in Pt dendrite size for the electrocatalyst prepared with 5 ml of Pt seed solution when compared to an electrocatalyst prepared with only 1 ml of Pt seed solution. In addition further Pt dendrite size reduction was achieved when 10 ml of Pt seed solution was used in step 2. However it is important to note that although the lowest apparent Pt dendrite size was obtained when 10 ml of Pt seed solution was used this amount resulted in the poorest Pt dendrite carbon black loading. This may have been due to a Pt seed carbon black saturation limit between the 5 ml and 10 ml Pt seed solution amounts. The average size for 1 3 and 5 ml Pt seed solution amounts are summarized in Table 4.

The 2 step process method used to prepare the electrocatalyst samples is summarized in Table 5 with a summary of electrocatalyst preparation conditions and relative concentrations of reactants shown in Table 6. As shown in Table 5 three electrocatalyst samples were prepared using a Ketjen carbon black and two electrocatalyst samples prepared using a Vulcan XC 72 carbon black. The process included preparing the Pt seed solution and supporting the Pt seeds on carbon black by sonication with subsequent Pt dendrite growth. In step 2 the Pt seeds were added to carbon as solution amounts. All samples were then washed and dried using the procedure summarized in Table 7. Note that Sample RFC 106 was washed in ethanol to remove SnTPPS4 following the washing and drying procedure summarized in Table 7 with the number of washes summarized in Table 8. The weight of all samples and final yield of electrocatalyst product determined for all the samples after the washing and drying process is shown in Table 9. The weight loss of the prepared electrocatalysts is mainly attributed to the washing and drying process.

TEM was used for pt size measurements DPT TGA was used for wt determination and XRD was used for crystalline state information. DTA TGA was performed using a STD 2960 DTA TGA DSC 2010 with dried air as the processing atmosphere and a heating rage of 10 C. min.

The results from the sample preparation are summarized in Table 10. Note that the electrocatalyst samples prepared with 10 ml equivalent Pt seed solution were abandoned due to a failed attempt to load the Pt seed onto the carbon black.

TEM images such as those shown in were taken of all the electrocatalyst samples. These images illustrate that the platinum nanodendrites were supported on carbon black due to the high surface area of the Ketjen carbon black namely DFC91 DFC90 and RFC106. A similar result is seen for the samples supported on Vulcan carbon black in namely RFC104 and RFC105. The average size of the Pt nanodendrites was determined by manual measurement of 100 randomly selected nanodendrites and the average Pt dendrite sizes of all the electrocatalysts are shown in Table 10. These data show that a decrease in the average size of the Pt nanodendrites was observed when the Pt seed solution amount was increased for the Ketjen carbon black samples.

The X ray diffraction pattern of all the electrocatalysts are shown in with the traces illustrating expected peaks for randomly oriented face centered cubic Pt crystals. The three peaks are attributed to 111 200 and 220 reflections respectively with the peak broadening consistent with the nanoscale structural features of the electrocatalysts.

Other preparation examples may include exposing a carbon support radical anion and metal precursors without the presence of photocatalysts. Electrocatalysts prepared according to the present invention may be organic inorganic hybrid materials or inorganic materials. In the former case the organic components will not affect electron conductivity proton passage or absorption of gas molecules on catalysts and gas diffusion. The electrocatalysts produced by methods according to the present invention may also include carbon material formed from organic components through pyrolysis.

In other examples a photocatalyst is not used. For example the preparation may involve a carbon support material one or more radical anion and one or more metal precursors without the use of a photocatalyst. Other reduction initiators such as other catalysts may be dispersed over the surface of the support material to seed the growth of metal particles on the surface.

Examples described include electrocatalysts for fuel cells. However the invention also relates to other apparatus comprising metal particles formed on a support layer. For example optical electronic and photonic devices may be made using analogous methods.

The invention is not restricted to the illustrative examples described above. Examples are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Methods apparatus compositions and the like described herein are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art. The scope of the invention is defined by the scope of the claims.

Patents patent applications or publications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In particular U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 643 283 filed Jan. 12 2005 is incorporated herein by reference.

