---

title: Determination of the bearing from a geophone to a seismic source
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for determining the bearing from a three-axis geophone to a seismic source, such as a person or other man-made seismic source. In one embodiment, the techniques are implemented as a method that includes receiving outputs from a three-axis geophone (x axis, y axis and z axis outputs), computing a magnitude signal based on the x and y axis outputs, determining locations of each local peak in the magnitude signal, computing a bearing estimate for each peak, and computing a median of the bearing estimates. The resulting median bearing is an estimate of the bearing from the geophone to a target seismic source. In one such case, computing the magnitude signal based on the x and y axis outputs is performed in response to detecting the target seismic source in the phase-shifted z axis output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07835867&OS=07835867&RS=07835867
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 07835867
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080916
---
The invention was made with United States Government support under contract DAAE30 03 C 1094 awarded by the Army and the United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to seismic sensor technology and more particularly determining the bearing from a three axis geophone to a seismic source.

A geophone is a known device that converts seismic energy movement or displacement to an electrical signal having a voltage that is proportional to the velocity of the seismic energy. They can be used for example to detect and quantify movement or displacement of the ground earthquakes or machine vibrations. They can also be used in oil exploration and mining where a man made seismic stimulus is applied to the earth and a geophone is used to read the reflection or response to the seismic stimulus which may indicate the presence of oil or a specific mineral deposit generally referred to as seismic surveying or prospecting .

U.S. Pat. No. 7 034 716 titled Passive Real Time Vehicle Classification System Utilizing Unattended Ground Sensors describes one application of a geophone for determining the type of a vehicle traversing terrain from acoustic and seismic noise emitted therefrom.

Although seismic energy is generally three dimensional in nature a geophone is typically configured to respond to single dimension. However some applications require the full wave of seismic energy to be detected and in such cases a multi component geophone can be used where individual geophones are deployed for each dimension of interest. For instance a three axis geophone detects seismic energy in three mutually orthogonal dimensions x y and z directions.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a method for computing the bearing from a three axis geophone to a seismic source. The method includes receiving outputs from a three axis geophone including x axis y axis and z axis outputs and computing a magnitude signal based on the x and y axis outputs. The method further includes determining locations of each local peak in the magnitude signal and computing a bearing estimate for each peak. The method further includes computing a median of the bearing estimates wherein the resulting median bearing is an estimate of the bearing from the geophone to a target seismic source. In one particular such embodiment the x axis y axis and z axis outputs are analog and receiving the outputs from a three axis geophone further includes digitizing each of the x y and z outputs. In another particular such embodiment computing a magnitude signal based on the x and y axis outputs is performed in response to first detecting the target seismic source in the z axis output. The method may include filtering each of the x y and z outputs to remove noise. In one such case the method includes phase shifting the filtered z axis output. The method may continue with projecting each filtered x and y axis output onto the phase shifted z axis output. The method may continue with applying a moving average filter to each of the projected x and y axis outputs. In one such case computing a magnitude signal based on the x and y axis outputs includes computing the magnitude signal based on the moving average filtered x and y axis outputs wherein computing a magnitude signal is performed in response to first detecting the target seismic source in the phase shifted z axis output.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a machine readable medium encoded with instructions that when executed by a processor cause that processor to carry out a process for computing the bearing from a three axis geophone to a seismic source. The process may include for example functionality similar to the methodology previously described.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a system for computing the bearing from a three axis geophone to a seismic source. The system includes a filter for receiving outputs from a three axis geophone including x axis y axis and z axis outputs and filtering each of the x y and z outputs to remove noise. The system further includes a phase shifter for phase shifting the filtered z axis output and a projector for projecting each filtered x and y axis output onto the phase shifted z axis output. The system further includes a moving average filter for filtering each of the projected x and y axis outputs and a magnitude compute module for computing a magnitude signal based on the moving average filtered x and y axis outputs. The system further includes a peak finder for determining locations of each local peak in the magnitude signal and a bearing compute module for computing a bearing estimate for each peak. The system further includes a bearing estimate compute module for computing a median of the bearing estimates wherein the resulting median bearing is an estimate of the bearing from the geophone to a target seismic source. In one particular such embodiment the x axis y axis and z axis outputs are analog and the system further comprise an analog to digital converter for digitizing each of the x y and z outputs. The system may further include a detector for detecting the target seismic source in the phase shifted z axis output wherein in response to detecting a target seismic source in the phase shifted z axis output the magnitude compute module is enabled to compute a magnitude signal based on the moving average filtered x and y axis outputs. In another particular such embodiment the filter for filtering each of the x y and z outputs to remove noise includes three a bandpass filter for each of the x y and z outputs.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

Techniques are disclosed for determining the bearing from a three axis geophone to a seismic source such as a person or other man made seismic source. As is known the bearing to an object generally refers to the horizontal angle between the direction of the object and that of true north or even more generally the direction to the object relative to a given location.

The techniques can be used in conjunction with numerous types of seismic sensors that provide seismic activity data and may be integrated directly into the housing of the sensor itself or otherwise operatively coupled to the sensor so as to receive the multidimensional outputs. The techniques can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof.

Numerous applications will be apparent in light of this disclosure including personnel detection and tracking. In any such cases the ability is provided to passively determine position information of personnel or other seismic source using a low cost low power sensor.

As can be seen the system includes a three axis geophone having its outputs operatively coupled to an analog to digital converter A D which converts each of the analog outputs of the geophone to its digital equivalent. These digital signals are then operatively coupled to filter which is configured to filter out noisy areas of the geophone frequency response. The filtered outputs of filter are operatively coupled to a bearing computation processor which computes the bearing of a seismic source . Although the system is shown in this example embodiment as being implemented with discrete components or modules other embodiments may employ a degree of integration where some or all of the functional modules are integrated for instance into a common housing or module.

The seismic source can be any object or event of interest that generates seismic energy such as a person e.g. walking running or otherwise moving or a vehicle e.g. moving vehicle or a stationary vehicle such as tank that is actively firing rounds or an explosion e.g. discharge of large millimeter gun or other such man made seismic source or event. Natural events such as a tree falling or mudslide may also provide seismic source . In general such seismic sources provide unique seismic energy that can be identified.

The distance between the seismic source and the system will vary from application to application. In some embodiments that range is anywhere from several feet to several hundred miles depending on factors such as the sensitivity of the geophone type of terrain through which the seismic energy must travel and the seismic energy generated by the source . For instance seismic activity generated by a person will tend to have lower energy detectable within distances of about 1 mile or less while seismic activity generated by an earthquake will tend to have relatively higher energy detectable at distances of 100 miles or more. Likewise seismic energy will propagate different in wet soil based earth as compared to dry rock based earth. The techniques described herein can be employed in numerous such applications and the range of operation can be set as desired.

The three axis geophone is this example embodiment is configured to detect seismic energy in the x axis the y axis and the z axis and can be implemented with any commercially available or customized three axis geophones. Alternatively the three axis geophone can be implemented with three individual single axis geophones that are configured to operate together so that each of the deployed single axis geophones detects seismic energy from a different axis. In one example embodiment the geophone is implemented using a Geospace GS 14L three axis geophone. In some such embodiments accurate bearing angle computations can be achieved at ranges up to 50 meters.

As will be appreciated the accuracy sensitivity and range of the geophone will depend on factors such as the given application e.g. target seismic source and local seismic environment surrounding the geophone sources of interference e.g. wind vehicles etc and cost constraints e.g. greater sensitivity and range typically comes at greater cost . For example personnel detection at a given range may require a relatively higher sensitivity than heavy vehicle detection at the same range. As sensitivity of seismic transducers improves such improved transducers can equally be used in embodiments of the present invention.

The A D converter can be implemented with conventional technology. In one embodiment the resolution of the A D converter is in the range of 8 to 32 bits depending on the desired degree of sensitivity and accuracy. Filter can generally be implemented with any filter technology that isolates the geophone output signals of interest. In one example embodiment filter is a bandpass filter configured to isolate the geophone output signals and to remove potential sources of interference such as that arising from acoustical coupling and non targeted seismic sources within range of the geophone . The filter can be coupled to the geophone by insulated wires or coaxial cable or other suitable conventional wired connections e.g. fiber optic cable or printed circuit board runs etc . Alternatively the connection between filter and geophone can be implemented with conventional wireless technology such as IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth cellular or satellite based wireless links.

The bearing computation processor receives the filtered outputs of the geophone and operates to compute the bearing of seismic source . The bearing computation processor as well as filter can be implemented for example in any suitable programming language e.g. C C object oriented C etc and encoded on a machine readable medium that when executed by a processor carries out the bearing computation. The processor may be included for instance in a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop. Other suitable processing environments can be used as well such as a personal digital assistant smart phone or any computing device having sufficient memory and processing capability to execute the bearing computation processor code. Other embodiments can be implemented for instance with gate level logic or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or chip set or other such purpose built logic or a microcontroller having input output capability e.g. inputs for receiving the x y and z outputs of the geophone and a number of embedded routines for carrying out the bearing computation. In short filter and module can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. The coupling between the filter and module can be implemented for example with runs on a printed circuit board or optical fiber. The previous discussion with reference to operatively coupling the geophone and the filter is equally applicable here.

As previously indicated each of the filter and bearing computation processor can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. The block diagram of the example embodiment of shows individual functional modules to facilitate description and understanding but other embodiments may integrate functionality of some or all modules into other modules as will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As can be seen the bandpass filter is implemented with a bandpass configuration including bandpass filters and for filter the digitized geophone x axis z axis and y axis outputs respectively. In one such embodiment each geophone signal is filtered using a bandpass filter having a passband ranging from about 10 Hz to 50 Hz. In one such embodiment each of bandpass filters and is implemented with a 10 to 12 coefficient elliptical IIR filter. Other filter configurations can be used here however as long as the desired passband and stopband regions are obeyed. In general any filter design capable of highlighting or otherwise selectively passing the areas of the geophone s intrinsic frequency response and rejecting undesired noise. Numerous filter types and configurations will be apparent in light of this disclosure and the present invention is not intended to be limited to any particular one filter or subset of filters. In any such cases the filter serves to clean the geophone signals and remove sources of interference arising from for example acoustical coupling and other such undesired signals.

Module performs a 90 degree phase shift on the vertical z axis signal which in one example embodiment is carried out using the Hilbert transform. Other suitable phase shift techniques can be employed as well. Modules and operate to project the filtered x and y axis signals respectively on to the phase shifted z axis signal provided by module . For instance and in accordance with one example embodiment assume H z is the Hilbert transform of the bandpass filtered z axis signal of the geophone . In addition assume x is the bandpass filtered x axis signal of the geophone and y is the bandpass filtered y axis signal of the geophone . In such an embodiment the projection of x onto z x z is obtained by pointwise multiplication of H z with x where module is configured to implement x z t H z t x t . Similarly the projection of y onto z y z is obtained by pointwise multiplication of H z with y where module is configured to implement y z t H z t y t . Other such suitable projection techniques may be employed.

The projected x and projected y signals output by modules and are each smoothed using moving average filters and respectively. In one specific embodiment the moving average filters and are each configured to compute an average over 3 16 of the samples obtained in a 1 second frame e.g. 192 samples for a signal sampled at 1024 Hz . The ratio of samples per sampling frequency can be decreased or increased as desired to suit particulars of a given application including typical variations in the seismic signals received from the geophone and the desired degree of smoothing. In general the length of each filter and is dependent on the sampling rate used when collecting data samples from the geophone . For example and in accordance with another example embodiment the length of the filter is 96 samples for data sampled at 1024 Hz. In such a case the filter values implemented by each of filter and are h t 1 2 96 for all t. Filter is applied to x z t output by module to yield f x t and filter is applied to y z t output by module to yield f y t .

Target detector module is configured to apply a detection algorithm to the phase shifted z axis signal. In one example embodiment the target seismic source is a person and the target detector module is configured to carry out a kurtosis statistical analysis such as described in Footstep Detection and Tracking by Succi Clapp Gambert and Prado September 2001 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In general as a person moves seismic waves resulting from that person s footsteps propagate through the ground. The seismic waves associated with movement of a person are different from other seismic sources such as those seismic waves associated with vehicles. For instance one way to detect footsteps is to look for the periodic impact of each step. The interval between impacts depends on the walker but a typical interval is about 2 Hz. A distinguishing feature of a footstep when comparing time series data for footsteps to other seismic signatures is the series of sharp spikes as generated by a seismic sensor such as a geophone resulting from each impact. This seismic pattern differs from other patterns induced for example by the winds over the ground and from vehicle noise. Vehicle noise for instance is composed of two parts a periodic signature at the track impact rate and a broadband signature due to interaction with the random surface features on the ground. The shape of a footstep signature can be quantitatively distinguished from other seismic signatures by considering a statistical measure of the amplitude of the signature the kurtosis. Kurtosis is the ratio of the 4th to 2nd moment of the amplitude distribution of the signature. The kurtosis value compared for a sample sequence is much higher in the presence of impulsive events than it is in the presence of Gaussian or sinusoidal signatures. As such kurtosis statistical analysis of the seismic activity can be used to detect a footstep or other specific and seismically unique target even in the presence of other diverse seismic sources. If another kind of man made source was of interest the target detector module could be replaced by an appropriate detector for that type of source. In any case when the seismic source of interest in detected by target detector module then module can effectively enable the formation or computation of a magnitude signal as will now be explained.

The outputs of the x and y moving average filters and are combined to form a magnitude signal by the magnitude compute module . This can be accomplished for example via a squared summation on a sample by sample basis. For instance and in accordance with one example embodiment the compute module is configured to compute the magnitude signal m t by taking the square root of the sum of f x t squared plus f y t squared as demonstrated in the equation m t sqrt f x t f y t . As previously discussed if the target seismic source has not yet been detected as indicated by module then the magnitude computation can be disabled if so desired e.g. to conserve processing power .

The magnitude signal output by module is then provided to the peak finder module to determine peak locations in the magnitude signal. In one example embodiment module receives the magnitude signal m t which is then scanned in 4 second buffers to determine the locations of any local peaks local maxima in the signal which finds samples in the magnitude signal m t that are larger than both adjacent samples. Numerous other buffer sizes for module can be used as well depending factors such as duration and type of seismic activity and sampling speed. Other suitable peak detectors can be used as well.

For each identified peak in a buffer a bearing estimate is computed by module . In one embodiment the module is programmed or otherwise configured to compute the arctangent of the ratio of the x axis moving average output as produced by module to the y axis moving average output as produced by module . In more detail beginning with the largest peak in the magnitude signal m t module computes the arc tangent of f y t f x t at the index corresponding to that peak. After zeroing out a window around the peak whose size is chosen based on the sampling rate of the geophone signal . In one example such embodiment the window size is 384 samples. This process is repeated for the next remaining largest peak and again until all viable peaks have been processed.

The bearing estimates are then received by the module which is configured to compute the median bearing estimate i.e. the bearing estimate that statistically appears the most of all the estimates computed . In one example embodiment module is configured to collect and sort the bearing estimates into angle order. This sorting process is complete for instance when the largest absolute angle difference between any two bearings has been minimized. The median of these sorted angles is then computed by module thereby yielding the final bearing determination for that particular buffer of data. For instance and in accordance with one example embodiment module receives a list of peak bearings from module and sorts the bearing list in ascending order. Module then finds the maximum angle difference recognizing that no angle difference can be greater than 180 degrees . Module then reorders the list of bearings so that the first and last members have the largest difference and then selects the median bearing of that list. Module can output that median bearing which is the estimate of the bearing from the geophone to the seismic source .

The method includes digitizing and then filtering outputs of 3 axis geophone x y z to remove noise including potential interference sources and other undesired signals. In some embodiments the digitizing is carried out as described with reference to A D converter and the filtering is carried out as described with reference to filter . Note that in some embodiments geophone may include an integrated A D converter so that it three outputs are already digitized. In such cases the outputs can be provided directly to filter .

The method continues with phase shifting the filtered z axis output and projecting each filtered x and y axis output onto the phase shifted z axis output. In some embodiments the phase shifting is carried out as described with reference to module and the projecting is carried out as described with reference to modules and

The method continues with applying a moving average filter to each of the projected x and y axis outputs. In some embodiments this filtering is carried out as described with reference to modules and . The method continues with detecting target seismic source in the phase shifted z axis output and computing magnitude signal based on the moving average filtered x and y axis outputs. In some embodiments the detecting is carried out as described with reference to module and the computing is carried out as described with reference to module . Recall that is a target seismic source is not detected then the filtering of and or computation of may be disabled or otherwise held in abeyance until a target seismic source is detected at .

The method continues with determining the locations of each local peak in the magnitude signal and computing a bearing estimate for each peak. In some embodiments the peak finding is carried out as described with reference to module and the bearing estimate computation is carried out as described with reference to module . The method continues with computing a median of the bearing estimates which in some embodiments is carried out as described with reference to compute median bearing module . The resulting median bearing is the estimate of the bearing from the geophone to a seismic source e.g. person .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

