---

title: Polyurethane press tooling components
abstract: A press punch for pressing a powder includes a generally cylindrical metallic body and a polyurethane layer disposed around the metallic body. The metallic body has a nominal outside diameter and a generally flat bottom face. The polyurethane layer is disposed around the metallic body such that a bottom of the polyurethane layer is flush with the generally flat bottom face of the metallic body and an outside diameter of the polyurethane layer is substantially the same as the nominal outside diameter of the metallic body. In another embodiment, the outside diameter of the polyurethane layer is greater than the nominal outside diameter of the metallic body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07980158&OS=07980158&RS=07980158
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07980158
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080409
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to press tooling components and in particular to tooling components that are combinations of steel and polyurethane.

Compaction press tooling is sometimes damaged under normal operating conditions for a variety of reasons. Compaction tooling may be particularly hazardous when high explosive HE powders are used in a consolidation process. Exacting tool design installation and alignment contribute to the prevention of inadvertent tool damage but conditions can arise that cause eventual damage to the system. Methods of predicting and controlling the dynamic conditions friction thermal fill distribution punch velocity and more that lead to such events have merit for most press systems but additional techniques are needed for HE press tooling configurations.

Tool impingement caused by radial forces that develop in the compaction zone is difficult to control. The punch cuts into the die at the point of contact plowing a metal chip along the wall and eventually driving it into the consolidated billet. Or worse the metal chip is forced into the punch die clearance galling both tools and forcing the sharp edge to impinge upon the opposite side of the die wall. The risk of damage caused by the sharp punch edge can be mitigated by a machined round with a minimal radius of 0.005 inch. However the machined round will allow excessive flashing to extrude into the clearance zone. Excessive flash material can be hazardous under certain conditions and leads to a process breakdown and poor quality billets.

Typically 0.005 inch diametric clearances are required to approach optimal press performance and product quality. Closing the clearances further improves performance and quality but tighter tooling clearances are inherently problematic. Press equipment design tolerances generally stack up to a greater degree allowing encroachment of the essentially free floating press tools. Even a simple single action punch and die press system is subject to tooling misalignment due to these tight clearances. Dual action presses with long ram stroke are more susceptible to hazards such as scoring and galling due to the increased tool travel through the clearance zones. Increasing the clearances may prevent tool impingement and reduce associated hazards but increased clearances create excessive flash conditions as described previously. A solution that maintains the tight clearances needed for performance and quality while increasing the clearances that are causal in tooling damage is needed.

It is an object of the invention to provide press tooling that helps prevent damage to the tooling while maintain required clearances.

One aspect of the invention is a press punch comprising a generally cylindrical metallic body and a polyurethane layer disposed around the metallic body. The metallic body may have a nominal outside diameter and a generally flat bottom face. The polyurethane layer may be disposed around the metallic body such that a bottom of the polyurethane layer is flush with the generally flat bottom face of the metallic body and an outside diameter of the polyurethane layer is substantially the same as the nominal outside diameter of the metallic body.

Another aspect of the invention is a press punch comprising a generally cylindrical metallic body and a polyurethane layer disposed around the metallic body. The metallic body may have a bottom surface and a nominal outside diameter. The polyurethane layer may be disposed around the metallic body such that an outside diameter of the polyurethane layer is greater than the nominal outside diameter of the metallic body.

A further aspect of the invention is a die comprising a metallic cartridge case having internal threads at a rear portion thereof a generally cylindrical metallic extension case having a front section and a front end the front section including external threads the external threads being engaged with the internal threads of the cartridge case and a portion of the front section beginning with the front end and extending rearward comprising a polyurethane layer disposed over a metallic substratum.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method of making a die comprising providing a metallic cartridge case having internal threads at a rear portion thereof providing a generally cylindrical metallic extension case having a front section and a front end the front section including external threads and a portion of the front section beginning with the front end and extending rearward comprising a polyurethane layer disposed over a metallic substratum the polyurethane layer including a chamfered portion at the front end of the extension case and threading the extension case into the cartridge case such that the chamfered portion deforms and provides a seal between an interior of the cartridge case and the internal threads of the cartridge case.

A further aspect of the invention is an apparatus comprising a die comprising a metallic cartridge case having internal threads at a rear portion thereof a generally cylindrical metallic extension case having a front section and a front end the front section including external threads the external threads being engaged with the internal threads of the cartridge case and a portion of the front section beginning with the front end and extending rearward comprising a first polyurethane layer disposed over a metallic substratum and a press punch disposed in the die and having a generally cylindrical metallic body the metallic body having a bottom surface and a nominal diameter and a second polyurethane layer disposed around the metallic body such that an outside diameter of the second polyurethane layer is greater than the nominal outside diameter of the metallic body.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In the invention the edge feature may be formed from a high durometer such as 75D for example polyurethane elastomer attached to the punch combining the benefits of close polyurethane to steel and loose steel to steel clearances into a single application. The process of bonding polyurethane to metal surfaces is used for high strength high durability applications.

If the punch is forced to encroach into the clearance zone and impinge upon the die wall the polyurethane layer is strong enough to resist the off axis movement and prevent tooling damage. The sharp edge is maintained by the polyurethane layer . Close clearances are achieved while steel against steel clearances are opened to safe distances. The polyurethane layer preserves the punch geometry while working as a passive guidance bumper.

In the embodiment of the nominal outside diameter D of the punch is not increased by addition of the layer . That is sufficient steel is removed from punch by for example machining to thereby create a reduced diameter portion for layer . An exemplary thickness t of layer may be in the range of about 0.010 inches to about 0.050 inches. In addition the bottom of layer is flush with the face of the punch .

Prior to applying layer punch is machined at the area where the layer will be applied. The polyurethane material is cast on to the punch using for example molds and vacuum conditioning. Once cured the bond between the polyurethane layer and the metal substratum is permanent. The bond is stronger in shear strength than the polyurethane itself. There is no gap or glue joint that will accumulate pressed materials under high pressures. The gross cast provides enough working material to create the finished polyurethane layer to design specifications.

As seen in a polyurethane layer generally annular or ring shaped is bonded to the reduced diameter portion . Layer may have an outside diameter P that exceeds the nominal outside diameter R of the punch body . In addition a portion below the dotted line of of the polyurethane layer extends below the bottom surface of the body and tapers radially inward to the bottom surface . A radial thickness K of the polyurethane layer is in the range of about 0.010 inches to about 0.050 inches.

Punch may be used when press loading a warhead. When press loading some warheads such as a 120 mm warhead the mass and density of the explosive make a one stroke process problematic. That is the warhead case volume is too small to contain the full load of uncompressed explosive powder. Referring to a metallic cartridge case may be extended by attaching a metallic extension case to the back end of the case . The cartridge case and the extension case may be joined by threading external threads on the extension case into the internal case closure threads at the rear of the cartridge case . The combination of the cartridge case and the extension case is the die into which the explosive powder is loaded for consolidation.

Extension case is made of metal for example steel and includes metallic external threads . In the invention case is modified so that a portion of the threads are replaced with a polyurethane layer. is a sectional view of a generally cylindrical extension case with polyurethane layer . Extension case includes a front section with a front end . The front section includes metallic external threads for mating with the internal threads of the cartridge case . A portion of the front section beginning with the front end and extending rearward comprises a polyurethane layer disposed over the metallic substratum.

The metallic substratum has a diameter I that is less than a nominal diameter J of the front section of the metallic extension case . The polyurethane layer is bonded to the underlying metallic substratum of the case . Preferably the exterior surface of the polyurethane layer has a smooth finish. However all or part of the polyurethane layer may be externally threaded to mate with the threads of the cartridge case .

As best seen in the polyurethane layer includes a chamfered or beveled portion at the front end of the extension case . When the extension case is threaded into the cartridge case the extension case will reach the end of threads in the cartridge case and the chamfered portion will deform as the extension case is tightened into the cartridge case . The deformed chamfered portion provides a polyurethane seal between the interior of the case and the threads of the case . is a greatly enlarged view showing the seal provided by chamfered portion between the powder in the case and the case threads . Also shown in is the punch with polyurethane layer .

The polyurethane seal formed by chamfer portion eliminates the extrusion of pressed explosive powder into the case closure thread zone. The chamfered portion seats onto the shoulder inside the warhead case . As the cases and are threaded tight the chamfered portion is compressed against the edge of the shoulder positively sealing off the threads from any migrating flash.

Referring now to the punch by way of example the outside diameter P of the polyurethane layer on punch may allow for 0.005 in. of wall clearance with case while the outside diameter R of the punch body may allow for 0.026 in. wall clearance with the case . The polyurethane layer accomplishes both the close clearance for process efficiency and quality and the open steel to steel clearances to prevent tooling damage and mitigate hazards. In trials using an inert consolidation powder the punch effectively sealed off the consolidation zone and completely eliminated the migration of flash as typically found on a pressing punch. The inert powder was pressed using 20 kpsi 140 degrees Fahrenheit and 200 mTorr of vacuum pressure.

The punch pulled away cleanly from the pressed warhead fill without tearing the surface. The polyurethane layer was found to be slightly roughened by shallow indentations of the countless grains of powder. In a few moments the layer was restored to normal smooth surface. The leading edge of the layer remained sharp after the pressing process. The pressing punch performed well through multiple inert pressing trials using a range of parameters normally used in pressing PAX 3A and other HE powders.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

