---

title: File system interface for CIM
abstract: Systems and methods for managing systems using common information models (CIM) are presented. According to a method embodiment, CIM functions are provided, and a file system interface for the CIM functions is provided. An embodiment of a method receives file operation commands through a client interface and performs CIM functions corresponding to the received file operation commands based on a mapping of the file operation commands to the CIM functions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08458236&OS=08458236&RS=08458236
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08458236
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080716
---
This disclosure relates generally to network management and more particularly to systems and methods for providing a file system interface to access common information models.

Common Information Model CIM is a standard set forth by the Distributed Management Task Force DMTF . CIM is an object oriented model to represent a wide variety of systems in a standard and neutral way and is commonly referred to as the CIM schema. CIM is an open standard that defines how managed elements in an IT environment are represented as a common set of objects and relationships between them. CIM promotes consistent management of these managed elements independent of their manufacturer or provider. That way a common component such as a server or a network router will be represented in a way that all management tools that use CIM will understand.

A related standard is Web Based Enterprise Management WBEM also defined by DMTF which defines a particular implementation of CIM including protocols for discovering and accessing such CIM implementations. To create a standard way to access CIM a working group of the DMTF developed a technique where CIM data can be accessed using the HTTP protocol used by the world wide web. Another standard used represents the CIM data in XML format. This gives us a common model for system management a standard way to represent that model and a standard way to access the model.

A CIM object manager CIMOM is essentially a server for servicing CIM requests. A CIM provider provides data representing a single entity. In the case of hardware there will theoretically be an instance of a CIM object representing each component including for example each processor video card etc. Each of these sources has its own interface some of which are very complex. There could be a representation of each component in only one many or all of the available data sources.

A primitive interface for using CIM is an SNIA Storage Networking Industry Association CIM browser. More powerful interfaces tend to be expensive and have a significant learning curve.

According to a method embodiment CIM functions are provided and a file system interface for the CIM functions is provided. An embodiment of a method receives file operation commands through a client interface and performs CIM functions corresponding to the received file operation commands based on a mapping of the file operation commands to the CIM functions.

This Summary is an overview of some of the teachings of the present application and not intended to be an exclusive or exhaustive treatment of the present subject matter. Further details about the present subject matter are found in the detailed description and appended claims. Other aspects will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the following detailed description and viewing the drawings that form a part thereof each of which are not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

The present subject matter enables CIM capabilities through a file system interface. The file system interface enables extensive use of CIM capabilities uses file utilities copy paste save etc. to manage CIM functions which allows CIM instances to be saved as files and reused later and which enables the automation of a large number of CIM tasks. Embodiments provide a CIM interface for four types of CIM providers including an indication provider involving callbacks.

By providing CIM with a file system interface an administrator is able to use an intuitive and powerful file system interface. Simple scripts can be written to perform routine yet time consuming CIMOM tasks. These tasks could include updates to a large number of CIMOM objects or to some which fit a given criteria attribute value . Complex operations can be defined as simple scripts with the file system interface. Powerful operations involving multiple different operations that require a large number of steps can be actively shared with simple scripts.

The CIMOM usually uses either its own repository or a standard external database to hold the CIM data. The illustrated system includes its own CIM schema and repository . The CIM schema can be loaded into the CIMOM using a format called MOF Managed Object Format or XML. The MOF format was the way the DMTF chose to represent the CIM schema and was used long before XML became the standard format for representing data in a neutral format. A compiler is generally used to convert the neutral CIM schema file into the internal schema representation used by the CIMOM.

The services of CIMOM are implemented by CIM providers e.g. instance provider association provider method provider and indication provider . They instrument the capabilities and the data based on the schema loaded into the CIMOM.

Sitting on top of the CIMOM is the WBEM interface that is basically a HTTP server. The WBEM interface has its own unique port number. The CIM WBEM client communicates over this port to the CIMOM. Generally the CIM WBEM client is a system management console.

The illustrated system includes a file system interface . The file system interface is illustrated as a separate module from the client interface . Some embodiments integrate the interfaces and . An example of a file system interface is FUSE Filesystem in Userspace . FUSE is a loadable kernel module that allow non privileged users to create their own file systems without editing the kernel code. The file system code is run in user space. FUSE can be used to write virtual file systems which acts as a view or translation of an existing file system or storage device. Embodiments of the present subject matter use FUSE to provide a file system view of CIM. The file system interface is illustrated as a FUSE module a custom CIM module written for FUSE at the client side that is adapted to map file operations to CIM client calls.

Instances provide a way to enumerate create and delete objects. The instance provider implements the following intrinsic pre defined methods Enuminstances EnumInstanceNames CreateInstance ModifyInstance DeleteInstance GetProperty SetProperty. EnumInstances returns the enumaration of all the instances with all its key and non key attributes. EnumInstanceNames returns the enumaration of all the CIM Object Paths COP is representation of instance with its key attributes . CreateInstance ModifyInstance and DeleteInstance create modify and delete instances when key attributes are specified as part of CIM Object Path. GetProperty and SetProperty are used to get and set the named properties of the instances directory.

An association is a special kind of a class describing a link between other classes. The association provider also referred to herein as an association reference provider implements Associators Associator Names References and ReferenceNames. Associator enumerates the instances associated with the instance defined by one of the arguments. AssociatorNames enumerates the COPs associated with the instance defined by one of the arguments. References enumerate the association instances that refer to the instance defined by one of the arguments. ReferenceNames enumerate the association COPs that refer to the instance defined by one of the arguments.

A method provider implements extrinsic custom methods. The method provider implements the intrinsic method InvokeMethod. InvokeMethod invokes a named extrinsic method of an instance defined by one of the arguments.

An indication provider is somewhat like an SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol agent. The indication provider produces indications on events. The indications are consumed by an indication consumer. The indications can be an e mail indication an SNMP mapper indication and CIM XML indication. The destination is filled by the client. The destination in case of CIM XML indication is an URL where an indication handler is running. The destination receives data from the CIMOM when indications are generated. The listener can be a standalone CIM listener or can be with the CIM server.

The indication provider is implemented in different ways in terms of APIs Application Programming Interfaces that it implements. CreateSubscription ModifySubscription and DeleteSubscription are APIs that tell the provider to monitor for indications matching the specified subscription change the subscription and delete respectively. EnableIndications and DisableIndications are APIs that tell the provider to begin generating indications and stop generating indications respectively.

The present subject matter provides a file system interface to the CIM whereby the client operations can be done using file operations such as copy delete and the like. For a Linux platform a module like FUSE can be used to give the file system interface. For a Windows platform name space extensions can be used. Other platforms have similar ways of implementing the same.

The present subject matter maps CIM operations to file operations. For the purpose of discussion the file system is considered to be mounted on ekkirala. Initially when the file system is mounted after connecting to the CIMOM a directory structure is shown that is nothing but the CIM schema. Any custom derived classes which actually instrument the capabilities and data are shown as subdirectories.

The directory listing ns root ns ns cimv2 ns represents the namespace root cimv2. This is just a portion as the actual directory listing inside ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns may look something like that illustrated in which is a screen shot of an open source application called SNIA cim browser . CIM UnixFile is only an abstract class. There may not be contents inside of this directory. OMC StoragePool is the actual implementation class which is instrumented with the provider. The directory ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CIM ManagedElement CIM ManagedSystemElement CIM LogicalElement CIMStoragePool OMC StoragePool includes the Instances and InstanceNames directories.

The Instances directory within the OMC StoragePool may include the following directories 1 2 3 4 5 and new instance . These five directories represent five instances of the OMC StoragePool. Directory 1 may include the files InstanceID.string.key PoolID.string.attr Name.string.attr Primordial.boolean.attr HealthState.uint16.attr and modified instance.

Each of these files InstanceID.string.key PoolID.string.attr Name.string.attr Primordial.boolean.attr HealthState.uint16.attr and modified instance contain the values of the attributes keys. For example InstanceID.string.key will have its contents as omc Primordial123 as the pool instance ID. The file Name.string.attr will have the name of the pool Primordial123 as the contents. Some embodiments provide a filename such that it gives some info about the attribute. The last part of the filename specifies if the attribute is a key or a non key value. The last but one part specifies the data type. The remaining part specifies the name of the attribute.

All these are files. However in case if the attribute is a CIM object path Instance Name then the attribute is a directory. For example in case of OMC StorageSynchronized the following directories are in the directory ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CEM Synchronized CIM StorageSynchronized OMC StorageSynchronized Instances 11 SystemElement.OMC StorageVolume COP.key and SyncedElement.OMC StorageVolume COP.key .

Both the attributes are keys and they are COPs CIM Object Paths Instance Names of the class OMC StorageVolume. Since they represent another class they in turn will have the attributes in them. The directory SystemElement.OMC StorageVolume COP.key may have the following contents SystemCreationClassName.string.key SystemName.string.key CreationClassName.string.key and DeviceID.string.key. For example the contents of the file DeviceID.string.key may include a volume name vo11 .

Similarly ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CIMManagedElement CIN ManagedSystemElement CIM LogicalElement CIM StoragePool OMC StoragePool InstanceNames may include directories 1 2 3 4 5 and new instance name . The five directories represent five instance names or CIM Object Paths of the OMC StoragePool. Directory 1 may include the files InstanceID.string.key and modified instance. There are no .attr files because the COPs will have only key attributes and not non key values.

The instance or instance name can be saved by archiving and compressing the directory that represents that instance. For example tar and gzip or zip can be used to archive and compress the contents of the directory ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CIM ManagedElement CIM ManagedSystemElement CIM LogicalElement CIM StoragePool OMC StoragePool InstanceNames 1. The compressed file can be renamed to pooll.OMC StoragePool COP which is the user given name.

Similarly a directory with attribute files can be created outside the CIM FS and be archived and compressed to create pooll.OMC StoragePool COP. This also essentially represents the same COP which can be used for methods inside CIM FS explained below.

In the same way if the contents of directory ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CIM ManagedElement CIM ManagedSystemElement CIM LogicalElement CIM StoragePool OMC StoragePool Instance 1 are compressed it can be renamed to the file pooll.OMC StoragePool CIMInstance. In all of the instances we use the COP file instead of CIMInstance file except in the creation of new instance.

The attributes of the instance can be changed by modifying the contents of the file that represents the attribute or key. However there may be cases where it is required to modify the multiple attributes at once or there may be cases for changing the attribute of an instance which is a COP. For these cases a special file called modified instance is provided in the instance or COP directory. To modify the properties of the instance the saved file is copied to the modified instance. The instance is modified to the values contained in the file copied to modified file. This modified instance file always has the size of 0 bytes even after overwriting. The same file exists in both Instances and InstanceNames directories.

Mapping the CIM classes instances and attributes into directories and files enumerates instances and instance names. Any instance can be deleted by writing a keyword such as delete into modified instance file. Once an instance is deleted in Instance its corresponding directory in InstanceNames will be deleted and vice versa.

How to modify an instance has been addressed previously. An instance can be created by copying the COP of the file representing the instance or instance name file which was saved or which was hand crafted into the directory new instance. A new instance directory e.g. directory 6 gets created in the InstanceNames and Instances directories. This allows for multiple processes to create multiple instances simultaneously. Thus an interface is given for EnumInstances EnumInstanceNames CreateInstance ModifyInstance DeleteInstance GetProperty and SetProperty.

Two ways are provided below to execute intrinsic methods of the association provider. One method uses additional directories called Associators AssociatorNames References and ReferenceNames inside the instance e.g. directory 1 in case of association classes such as OMC StorageSynchronized. For example the contents of the directory may look like 

Associations have the directories Associators AssociatorNames References and ReferenceNames. Each of these directories have directories called Input args and Output and a file called execute. Input args contain the input argument names for the associator provider s intrinsic methods. To fill the arguments one just needs to copy the respective saved files or hand crafted files to the argument files which similar to creation modification of instances. Once the input args are copied a 1 is written into the special file execute. This executes the method and the resulting instances will be returned in the Output directory. The instances will look similar to the instances seen in Instance or InstanceNames directory. This provides an interface for associator provider s intrinsic methods.

The association class has other classes which it associates and these other classes have instances. Another method provides a directory called Associations inside those instances such as going into the following directory ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CIM ManagedElement CIM ManagedSystemElement CIM LogicalElement CIM StoragePool OMC StoragePool InstanceNames 1. This directory has the class names of all association classes that associates OMC StoragePool. Assuming that OMC StorageSynchronized and OMC HostedStoragePool are the association classes that associates OMC StoragePool with OMC LogicalDisk and OMC StorageExtent not the case actually then the Associations directory includes OMC StorageSynchronized and OMC HostedStoragePool . Any of the above directories includes the directories Associators AssociatorNames References and ReferenceNames. Each of these directories have two different directories called Input args and Output and a file called execute. The rest is similar to the description provided for the first method.

The extrinsic or custom defined methods are provided by method provider. The methods are related to the instance of the method class. If there is any method class there will be a directory called Methods in its instance directory For example ekkirala ns root ns ns cimv2 ns CIM ManagedElement CIM ManagedSystemElement CIM LogicalElement CIM EnabledLogicalElement CIM Service CIM StorageConfigurationService OMC StorageConfigurationService will have the directories Instances and InstanceNames . The inside of directory Instances may include 1 2 3 . . . etc. directories. Directory 1 may include the keys and attributes of the instance as files. Along with it there will be a directory called Methods. The Methods directory may include the directories OpenSession CloseSession CreateReplica ModifySynchronization etc. These are the extrinsic methods. CreateReplica may include InArgs OutArgs ReturnValue.uint32 and execute. InArgs contain the argument named files which look like the following ElementName.string and SourceElement.CIM LogicalElement COP. These are the input argument file names which will have 0 byte sizes always. These arguments are filled by copying the saved hand crafted files that represents the attributes or COPs etc. to the respective arg files.

Once these files are copied then 1 is sent into the file execute. The method gets executed and the result in case of CreateReplica is an uint32 value which is made available in ReturnValue.uint32. The output arguments will be made available in OutArgs. For example in this case the output arguments are the following Job.CIM ConcreteJob COP and TargetElement.CIM LogicalElement COP. These files can be accessed and uncompressed to get the attributes of these instances. Thus extrinsic methods can be called from CIM FS.

Indications are provided by the Indication Provider which uses the methods CreateSubscription ModifySubscription DeleteSubscription EnableIndications and DisableIndications that are implemented in the same ways as that of the method provider. The destination for indication is specified by setting the Destination in OMC IndicationHandlerCIMXML derived from CIM IndicationHandlerCIXML derived from CIM IndicationHandler attribute to the URL where the CIMXML listener is running in case of CIMXML indications. Similarly other indication handlers depending on whether it is e mail or SNMP indication are filled. This instance is created which is used for delivering the indications. The listener is outside of the CIMclient. The URL is provided for the listener effectively handing the call backs in case of indications.

In case if multiple processes are executing intrinsic and extrinsic methods then there will be more than one output. One solution is to have a special file called id. Each time this file is read it gives an unique number to that method which can be say a serial number incremented each time or a random number. Also there will be a directory created with this unique number. Now after going inside this unique numbered directory the input args can be filled in to get the outputs and return values. Each process will first read this id file and then go into the numbered directory and then execute the method. The process after getting the results can save them and delete the directory.

CIM has its own query language which is similar to SQL. A directory called Query. can include a directory called id. Each time this file is read it gives an unique number. A directory created with this unique number and this unique numbered directory input and output files. The query can be written into the input and the output will be available in output.

Inside the instances e.g. directory 1 the method and association directories can be softlinks so that the zip or archiving program need not follow those softlinks. Some platforms may not support softlinks and in such cases the entire directory gets zipped. But when these instances are reused by copying the CIM file system will ignore the contents of methods and association directories.

For operations which involve the method and association directories a unique numbered directory gets created through the id file and the file operations are performed inside the unique numbered directory. If the method execution fails then the write operation to execute will return the file operation error which is possibly best closest to the CIM error. In case of errors an error.log file gets created with the error details.

In case of instance operations which are done through file system operations like writing into modified file or copying files into attributes etc. the respective file operations will fail and return the file operation error which is possibly best closest to the CIM error. There will be an error.log file in the directory which contains the error. An embodiment provides the error.log with the following format error. The process sees this log file and finds the error corresponding to its operation. The number of entries in this file can be limited. For example some embodiments limit the number to the 100 latest entries in this file. This number is configurable.

The present subject matter provides the ability to save instances or instance names as files and use them to recreate or use them as arguments and maps CIM operations to file system operations. The present subject matter can be used to automate many tasks and enables power usage of CIM operations.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the illustrated processes and entities can be implemented using software hardware and combinations of software and hardware. The methods illustrated in this disclosure are not intended to be exclusive of other methods within the scope of the present subject matter. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure other methods within the scope of the present subject matter. The above identified embodiments and portions of the illustrated embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive. These embodiments or portions thereof can be combined. In various embodiments the methods are implemented as a set of instructions contained on a computer accessible medium capable of directing a processor to perform the respective method. The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

The above detailed description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

