---

title: Parametric amplification of a MEMS gyroscope by capacitance modulation
abstract: Parametric amplification of the output of a MEMS gyroscope is achieved by modulating the sense capacitance, or an auxiliary capacitance having an applied DC voltage. The capacitance modulation is produced by the driven motion of the gyroscope mechanism, so the pump signal of the parametric amplifier is not subject to phase errors in the electronics. The capacitance modulation affects the mechanical gain of the sensor (transfer function from input force to sensor mechanism displacement), as well as the electrical gain of the sensor (transfer function from sensor mechanism displacement to output electrical signal). The mechanical and electrical gains of the sensor become phase-dependent, so the Coriolis rate signal can be amplified while the unwanted quadrature-phase signal is attenuated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08037757&OS=08037757&RS=08037757
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08037757
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080430
---
This patent application claims priority from copending U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 013 041 filed Dec. 12 2007 and entitled Parametric Amplification of a MEMS Gyroscope by Capacitance Modulation the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was made with support from the United States Government under contract number W15P7T 05 C P609 and or W15P7T 07 C P609 awarded by the United States Army. The United States Government may have certain rights in the invention.

A Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS gyroscope sensor consists of one or more movable proof masses connected to each other and to one or more substrates by flexible suspensions. Typically the proof masses and suspensions are fabricated by etching heavily doped silicon and the silicon is bonded to one or more upper and or lower glass or silicon substrates.

The proof masses are driven electrostatically at the resonant frequency of the motor mode. When the sensor experiences rotation the velocity of the motor mode motion causes the proof masses to experience Coriolis forces perpendicular to the motor velocity and the rotation axis. The proof mass motion produced by the Coriolis force is sensed capacitively by sense electrodes to produce an electrical output signal.

In various MEMS gyroscopes the motor mode consists of the two proof masses moving with equal and opposite velocities parallel to the substrate and along a line connecting the centers of the two proof masses. The motor mode resonant frequency can be in the range of 10 to 20 kHz. MEMS gyroscope sensors may be designed to sense rotation either parallel or perpendicular to the substrate. The Coriolis force drives the sense resonant mode of the silicon mechanism which consists of the two proof masses moving in opposing directions parallel or perpendicular to the substrate depending on whether the rotation axis is perpendicular or parallel to the substrate. A sensor designed to sense rotation around an axis parallel to the substrate is referred to as an in plane gyroscope IPG and a sensor designed to sense rotation around an axis perpendicular to the substrate is referred to as a z axis gyroscope or out of plane gyroscope OPG .

In a MEMS gyroscope the resonant frequency of the sense mode is typically 5 to 10 below the resonant frequency of the motor mode so the Coriolis force drives the sense mode off resonance. Other MEMS gyroscopes may operate with the sense resonant frequency as close as possible to the motor resonant frequency in order to maximize scale factor. However the bandwidth of such sensors is very limited and they can have stability issues.

Other MEMS gyroscopes may be quite different from the two proof mass configuration described above. However they all have a motor mode driven at its resonant frequency they all experience a Coriolis force during rotation and the Coriolis force drives a sense mode whose motion is detected capacitively.

The sensor output signal in MEMS gyroscopes is an AC signal at the motor resonant frequency. Typical MEMS gyroscopes have a large output error signal designated quadrature which is 90 degrees out of phase with the output signal produced by the Coriolis force. Phase sensitive detection allows the Coriolis rate signal to be detected in the presence of a much larger quadrature signal. However phase shifts in the electronics and in the sensor can cause the quadrature phase signal to produce errors in the Coriolis phase signal.

Parametric amplification in a MEMS gyroscope using a pump signal consisting of AC voltages applied to the sense electrodes has been described previously in U.S. Pat. No. 6 715 353 Burgess R. Johnson issued Apr. 6 2004 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The AC pump voltages can increase the mechanical gain of the sensor transfer function from input force to sensor mechanism displacement as well as the electrical gain of the sensor transfer function from sensor mechanical displacement to output electrical signal . Also the mechanical and electrical gains of the sensor become phase dependent so that the Coriolis rate signal can be amplified while the unwanted quadrature phase signal is attenuated.

Oropeza Ramos et. al. have described the use of parametric resonance to modify the characteristics of the driven mode of a MEMS gyroscope Parametric Resonance Amplification in a MEM Gyroscope L. A. Oropeza Ramos and K. L. Turner Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE Sensors Conference pages 660 663 Oct. 31 Nov. 3 2005 Irvine Calif. incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

A difficulty with using AC pump voltages to provide parametric amplification as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 715 353 is that the phase of the pump voltages must be precisely synchronized with the phase of the driven motion of the sensor mechanism. If this is not done the parametric amplification produces a phase shift of the sensor output signal relative to the phase of the input force on the sensor. As a result the relatively large quadrature phase force on the sensor mechanism can produce sensor output at the Coriolis rate phase resulting in a large zero rate bias error.

The left motor is capacitively coupled to the first vibrating mass via the left comb structure . The right motor is capacitively coupled to the second vibrating mass via the right comb structure . The center motor pickoffs are capacitively coupled to the first vibrating mass via the first center comb structure . The center motor pickoffs are capacitively coupled to the second vibrating mass via the second center comb structure . The left motor and the right motor are driven with signals to impart a vibrating motion at a known frequency to the first vibrating mass and the second vibrating mass hereinafter referred to as the motor frequency. The center motor pickoffs are biased with DC voltages so that motion of the proof masses along the x axis produces AC electrical currents which are input to electronics controlling the signals applied to the motor combs.

The sense electrodes are capacitively coupled to the first and second vibrating masses respectively by a plurality of comb finger pairs . Each comb finger pair has one comb finger attached to the vibrating mass and another comb finger attached to a sense electrode. Sense electrodes are coupled to anchors . In the exemplary embodiment comb finger pairs are separated from other comb finger pairs by a predefined distance. Further in some embodiments of the sense electrodes the comb finger pairs are arranged so that each pair has a corresponding pair such that the two pairs have mirror symmetry about the motor axis shown in . Other configurations for comb structures may be used in alternative embodiments of the MEMS capacitance modulation device .

Embodiments of the MEMS capacitance modulation device employ various configurations in the structure of the comb finger pairs as described in greater detail below. The structures of the comb finger pairs allow the capacitance of a comb finger pair to vary with the displacement of the vibrating mass along the motor axis.

Embodiments of the MEMS capacitance modulation device produce parametric amplification with the phase of the pump force precisely synchronized with the phase of the motor motion of the sensor mechanism. In some embodiments this is achieved by designing the sense electrodes so that motor motion produces a modulation of the sense capacitance at twice the motor frequency resulting in a parametric pump force at twice the motor frequency due to modulation of the electrostatic force on the sense mode. The phase of the parametric pump force is precisely synchronized with the motor motion of the proof masses because the parametric pump force is produced by the motor motion of the proof masses.

The time dependent electrostatic force Falong the y axis produced by a capacitance C that is a function of time and of y axis displacement e.g. sense mode displacement is given by equation 1 

The sense electrode comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures them to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the proof mass comb fingers to the proof mass body .

The separation between the proof mass comb fingers and the sense electrode comb fingers respectively defines the gaps . The gaps define the capacitive coupling capacitance between the sense electrode comb fingers and the proof mass comb fingers .

In the comb finger end portion has a width that is greater than the width of the comb finger attaching portion . Optionally the proof mass comb fingers have an end portion that is wider than a portion attached to the body of the proof mass . In yet another embodiment the comb finger portions and are the same width while the comb finger end portion is wider than the comb finger portion . The differences in the width of the comb finger portions and and or the comb finger portions and causes a change in the gaps as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment the sense electrode comb fingers have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency.

A motor motion induced to the proof mass resulting in a motor displacement distance x along the illustrated x axis causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes and the proof mass as the gaps change. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y axis also changes with motor displacement x . As a result when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes and the proof mass the electrostatic force along the illustrated y axis given by equation varies with x axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to decrease with positive and negative motor displacement distance x in accordance with . For positive x the average gap separation between comb fingers and increases relative to x 0 and the average gap separation between comb fingers and is constant. Thus the total capacitance decreases relative to its value when x 0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly negative values of x also produce a decrease in capacitance.

The sense electrode comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the sense electrode comb fingers to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the proof mass comb fingers to the proof mass body .

The separation between the proof mass comb fingers and the sense electrode comb fingers respectively defines the gaps . The gaps define the capacitive coupling capacitance between the sense electrode comb fingers and the proof mass comb fingers .

In the width of end portion is smaller than the width of portion . Optionally the proof mass comb fingers have an end portion with a width that is less than the width of a portion attached to the body of the proof mass . In yet another embodiment the portions and are the same width while the end portion has a width less than the portion . The differences in the widths of the portions and and or the portions and cause a change in the capacitance of the gaps as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment the comb fingers have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency. Accordingly capacitance increases with motor displacement. The capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement in .

A motor motion induced to the proof mass resulting in a motor displacement distance x along the illustrated x axis causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes and the proof mass as the gaps change. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y axis also changes with motor displacement x. As a result when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes and the proof mass the electrostatic force along the illustrated y axis given by equation 1 varies with x axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to increase with positive and negative motor displacement distance x in accordance with . For positive x the average gap separation between comb fingers and decreases relative to x 0 and the average gap separation between comb fingers and is constant. Thus the total capacitance increases relative to its value when x 0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly negative values of x also produce an increase in capacitance.

The sense electrode comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the sense electrode comb fingers to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the proof mass comb fingers to the proof mass body . The separation between the proof mass comb fingers and the comb fingers respectively defines the gaps . The gaps define the capacitive coupling capacitance between the sense electrode comb fingers and the proof mass comb fingers .

In the sense electrode comb fingers have a corrugated end portion and a non corrugated attaching portion . Optionally the proof mass comb fingers have an end portion that is corrugated and a non corrugated attaching portion . In yet another embodiment the end portions are corrugated while the portions are non corrugated. The corrugation of the portion and or the portions cause a change in the capacitance gaps as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment the sense electrodes have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency. Accordingly capacitance increases with motor displacement. The capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement in .

A motor motion induced to the proof mass resulting in a motor displacement distance x along the illustrated directions x axis causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes and the proof mass as the gaps change. The derivative of the capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y axis also changes with motor displacement x. As a result when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes and the proof mass the electrostatic force along the illustrated y axis given by equation 1 varies with x axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to increase with positive and negative motor displacement distance x in accordance with . For positive and negative x the average of the inverse of the gap separations in gaps increases relative to x 0. Thus the total capacitance increases relative to its value when x 0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly negative values of x produce the same increase in capacitance as positive values of x.

The sense electrode comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the sense electrode comb fingers to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the proof mass comb fingers to the proof mass body . The separation between the proof mass comb fingers and the comb fingers respectively defines the gaps . The gaps define the capacitive coupling capacitance between the sense electrode comb fingers and the proof mass comb fingers .

In the sense electrode comb fingers have a corrugated end portion and a non corrugated attaching portion . In this embodiment the corrugations of comb finger oppose the corrugations of comb finger and the corrugations of comb finger oppose the corrugations of comb finger .

The corrugation of the portions and the portions cause a change in the capacitance gaps as the motor motion is induced to the proof mass . In an exemplary embodiment the sense electrodes have capacitance modulated at twice the motor frequency. Accordingly capacitance decreases with motor displacement. The capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement in .

A motor motion induced to the proof mass resulting in a motor displacement distance x along the illustrated directions x axis causes a detectable variance in the capacitance between the sense electrodes and the proof mass as the gaps change. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y axis also changes with motor displacement x. As a result when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes and the proof mass the electrostatic force along the illustrated y axis given by equation 1 varies with x axis displacement of the proof mass. The capacitance is configured to decrease with positive and negative motor displacement distance x in accordance with . For positive and negative x the average of the inverse of the gap separations in gaps decreases relative to x 0. Thus the total capacitance decreases relative to its value when x 0. Because of the mirror symmetry of the assembly negative values of x produce the same decrease in capacitance as positive values of x.

The sense electrode comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the sense electrode comb fingers to their respective sense electrodes . The proof mass comb fingers are defined by an end portion and an attaching portion which secures the proof mass comb fingers to the proof mass body .

The separation between the proof mass comb fingers and the sense electrode comb fingers respectively defines the gaps . The gaps define the capacitive coupling capacitance between the sense electrode comb fingers and the proof mass comb fingers .

In capacitance is illustrated as a function of motor displacement for the assembly of . The capacitance is a non linear function of the motor displacement distance x along the illustrated x axis. The derivative of said capacitance with respect to displacement along the illustrated y axis also changes with motor displacement x. As a result when a DC bias voltage is applied between the sense electrodes and the proof mass the electrostatic force along the illustrated y axis given by equation 1 varies with x axis displacement of the proof mass.

The non linear capacitance as a function of x axis displacement of the proof mass in assembly may provide more effective parametric amplification than the electrodes of the assemblies shown in and or since the frequency component of the capacitance modulation at twice the motor frequency is larger when the capacitance is an approximately parabolic function of motor displacement than when it is proportional to the absolute value of motor displacement for equal amplitudes of oscillatory motor displacement. However the configurations of and or may be preferable for some situations because the tilted electrodes illustrated in may be impractical and or difficult to make when the comb fingers are very long.

The modulation of capacitance produced by the mating comb fingers of the comb finger pairs illustrated in and or also produces modulation of the first and second derivatives of capacitance with respect to displacement along the y axis. The modulation of these derivatives is the origin of the parametric amplification effects that are the subject of the various embodiments.

Modulating the sense capacitance affects the MEMS gyro sensor s mechanical gain transfer function between input force and proof mass displacement as well as its electrical gain transfer function between proof mass displacement and electrical output signal . The effect on mechanical gain is described hereinbelow.

The x axis displacements of the two proof masses have the same magnitude labeled as x in and but opposite directions. Rotation about an axis orthogonal to the motor axis x axis and the sense axis y axis produces Coriolis forces on the proof masses along the sense axis. The resulting proof mass displacements change the four sense capacitances producing time varying charges q t and q t on the sense capacitances which are inputs to the charge amplifiers shown in or

The outputs of the sensor charge amplifier combined systems shown in and are designed to be sensitive only to the differential sense axis motion produced by the Coriolis forces. Equation 2 describes the differential motion for this embodiment 

The first term on the right hand side of equation 2 is the differential electrostatic force produced by the sense capacitances. The displacements y t and y t are typically small. Therefore it is useful to expand the capacitances in Taylor series in y t and y t and ignore terms beyond second order. Assuming all four sense capacitances are identical when x yand yare zero equation 2 becomes equation 6 as follows 

The motor motion modulates C x 0 as a function of time. The modulation can be expressed as a Fourier series consisting of harmonics of twice the motor frequency as defined by equation 7 

Terms in equation 7 higher than n 1 do not have a significant effect on y t so they may optionally be ignored. Inserting equation 7 into equation 6 gives equation 8 

Equation 8 has the form of the well known Mathieu equation. It shows that the sense resonant frequency is modulated at twice the motor frequency due to the modulation of C x 0 by the motor motion of the proof masses. This modulation of the sense frequency produces parametric amplification in the embodiments.

The sense mode response y t given by solving equation 8 is primarily at the motor frequency because the driving force F t is at frequency which is close to the sense resonant frequency where the mechanical response is large. Terms at other frequencies are far from the sense resonant frequency so they do not produce a large contribution to y t . This is also the reason that equation 8 excludes terms in C x 0 with frequency higher than 2 .

Assuming a solution to equation 8 is of the form of equation 10 below cos 10 and neglecting the damping term the solution can be written as equation 11 below 

with the phase being equal to the phase of the force F t . The sign in the denominator of equation 11 is negative for 0 Coriolis and positive for 2 quadrature . Equation 11 shows that if the sign of is the same as the sign of then the amplitude of the response of y t to a Coriolis phase force 0 is increased by the capacitance modulation and the response to a quadrature phase force is decreased in amplitude.

An expression for the sensor electrical gain the transfer function from proof mass sense axis displacement to electrical output is derived in this section. The non linear mixing between the capacitance modulation and the sense mode displacements of the proof masses causes the electrical gain to be phase dependent so the electrical gain for the Coriolis phase signal can be larger than that of the quadrature phase signal.

The charges q and q on the sense capacitances are defined by equation 12 as 12 where V is the bias voltage on the positive or negative polarity sense capacitances as defined in and or the bias voltage Vapplied to proof masses in . Expanding the sense capacitances in Taylor series in yand y and assuming all four capacitances are identical when x y and yare zero equation 12 can be approximated for small yand yas defined by equation 13 2 0 0 . 13 The capacitance C x 0 and C x 0 its first derivative with respect to y can be written as Fourier series in a manner similar to equation 7 for C x 0 as defined by equations 14 and 15 as 

In equation 16 terms with frequency higher than 2 are neglected. The readout electronics of the MEMS gyroscope uses phase sensitive detection to reject signals at frequencies other than the desired motor frequency so only the motor frequency component of the sensor output is of interest. Also the first three terms on the right hand side of equation 16 do not contribute to the gyro output because the configuration of bias voltages combined with the choice of a single ended or differential charge amplifier in the embodiments of and is designed to null the contribution of these terms at the charge amplifier output.

Evaluating equation 16 for Coriolis phase 0 and quadrature phase 2 sense mode displacements and ignoring the first three terms on the right hand side the charges on the sense capacitances are defined by equations 17 and 18 

Equations 17 and 18 show that the amplitudes of the sense capacitance charges are dependent on the phase of the sense mode displacement y t . Thus the electrical gain of the sensor is phase dependent so the electrical gain for a Coriolis phase signal can be larger than that of a quadrature phase signal.

An alternative to modulating the sense capacitance is to provide a set of auxiliary electrodes whose capacitance is modulated by the motor motion. If a DC bias voltage is applied to these auxiliary electrodes and the second derivative of their capacitance with respect to sense axis displacement is modulated by motor motion then these electrodes can modulate the sense frequency and produce parametric amplification. The parametric amplification is produced by modifying the mechanical gain of the sensor as expressed by equation 11 . The electrical gain of the sensor is not modified since the electrical gain is determined by the sense electrodes. Thus the use of auxiliary electrodes may provide greater flexibility in designing the mechanical and electrical gains of the sensor independently.

The above described embodiments of the comb finger pairs were described in the context of an out of plane MEMS gyroscope. Embodiments may also be implemented in an in plane MEMS gyroscope in a MEMS accelerometer or other MEMS devices that employ comb pairs operated to generate a sensed capacitance. Furthermore alternative embodiments of a MEMS capacitance modulation device may have the sense electrodes proof masses and or their respective comb fingers arranged differently or may include more or less than the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

