---

title: Substrate for surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS)
abstract: A substrate for Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS). The substrate comprises at least one nanostructure protruding from a surface of the substrate and a SERS active metal over the at least one nanostructure, wherein the SERS active metal substantially covers the at least one nanostructure and the SERS active metal creates a textured layer on the at least one nanostructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08547549&OS=08547549&RS=08547549
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08547549
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081117
---
This invention has been made with Government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0002 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering SERS is a technique using Raman scattering for enhancing the detection of molecular species through the excitation of Plasmon modes and their coupling to molecular vibrational modes. In other words Raman scattering is the inelastic scattering of photons that can provide vibrational fingerprints of molecules. The substrate surface on which the detection of molecular species is taking place as well as the material of the substrate surface affects the strength and intensity of the Raman scattering.

Currently available substrates for use in SERS suffer from various deficiencies in the enhancement and detection of Raman scattering. Raman scattering signals are generally very weak especially on flat substrates. The weak Raman signal can make it difficult to detect and measure the Raman scattering signal and consequently make it difficult to detect and identify the molecular species. Furthermore even if the available substrate enhances the Raman scattering signal the enhanced Raman scattering signal is usually in a localized area s on the substrate and not uniform across the substrate surface. The area of the localized enhanced Raman scattering signal is exponentially small compared to the entire area of the substrate surface. The large disparity between the area of the Raman scattering signal and the area of the substrate surface make it burdensome to search and locate the signal and consequently burdensome to detect and identify the molecular species.

Moreover current substrates are expensive and difficult to manufacture. The manufacturing of the substrates can require burdensome and expensive lithographically patterned masking and etch stopping layers. The lithography process also limits the density of the features on the substrate surface that enhances Raman scattering and thus the intensity of the observed Raman signal.

The drawings referred to in this description should be understood as not being drawn to scale except if specifically noted.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present technology examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the technology will be described in conjunction with various embodiment s it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the present technology to these embodiments. On the contrary the present technology is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the various embodiments as defined by the appended claims.

Furthermore in the following description of embodiments numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present technology. However the present technology may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present embodiments.

The surface of a substrate for the use in SERS can influence the Raman signal as described above. The shape and size of the physical features on the substrate surface as well as the material of the physical features can amplify the Raman signal to help detect and identify molecules located at or near the substrate surface. In particular light is directed at the substrate surface and the reflected light has a signature that identifies the molecules located at or near the substrate surface.

In one embodiment the thickness of the layer of SERS active metal can be but is not limited to the range of 10 nm to 120 nm. In another embodiment the thickness of the layer of SERS active metal is 80 nm.

In one embodiment the nanostructures are generally a conical shape. In various embodiments the shapes of the nanostructures are not limited to hemispheres pyramids or amorphous. illustrates a cross sectional view of a substantially cone shaped or a substantially pyramid shape nanostructure. For the sake of clarity tip portion has been expanded to show further detail. illustrates a substantially hemisphere shaped tip of the nanostructure. For the sake of clarity tip portion has been expanded to show further detail. illustrates a substantially amorphous shaped tip of the nanostructure. For the sake of clarity tip portion has been expanded to show further detail. The process used to fabricate the nanostructure described later allows for the variations of the nanostructures. The variations of the nanostructures can be but are not limited to shape width height and density. The height of a cone can be but is not limited to one micron.

The density of the nanostructures on the substrate is substantially uniform across the surface of the substrate. The distance between the cone tips can be but is not limited to a range of 100 nm to 500 nm. In one embodiment the distance between the cone tips is sub wavelength. In another embodiment the distance is in a range of wavelength to sub wavelength. The bases of the nanostructures can be proximate one another. In one embodiment the bases of the nanostructures are not proximate. In a further embodiment the bases of a plurality of nanostructures are proximate one another and bases of another plurality of nanostructures are not proximate one another.

At block the fabricating of the nanostructures can be performed using a customized Bosch process on the substrate without requiring lithographic masking. At block the fabricating of the nanostructures can be performed using a single etching step.

The surface structure of the SERS substrate varies as a function of etching time. In particular the height of the nanostructures increases as the time of etching increases. illustrates an example of the nanostructures of a SERS substrate before metal deposition after 550 seconds of etching. illustrates another example of the nanostructures of a SERS substrate before metal deposition after 20 minutes of etching. The fabricated nanostructures are self organized. In one embodiment the nanostructures are randomly fabricated on the substrate. In another embodiment the nanostructures are densely packed on the substrate. In a further embodiment the nanostructures have an appearance of a bed of nails. In another embodiment the nanostructures have an appearance similar to trees in a forest.

At block a SERS active metal is deposited over a surface of the nanostructures. The SERS active metal substantially covers the nanostructures and creates a textured layer on the nanostructures. illustrates one embodiment of the SERS active metal over the nanostructures. In particular depicts a silicon substrate with a 9 minute etching and 80 nm of silver Ag deposited over the conical nanostructures. In another embodiment the SERS active metal can be evaporated over the nanostructures. In a further embodiment the SERS active metal can be chemically deposited over the nanostructures. In one embodiment the SERS active metal is chemically deposited by the process of plating. Furthermore the SERS active metal can be deposited over the nanostructure by a pre assembled nanostructure coating. The pre assembled nanostructure coating can be a pre synthesized metal that is then deposited over the nanostructures. In one embodiment the deposition of the SERS active metal does not require masking. In another embodiment the deposition of the SERS active metal does not require lithography processes. In another embodiment there is post processing after the deposition of metal. At block the SERS active metal can be evaporated onto the nanostructures.

At block the surface of the substrate with the fabricated nanostructures can be replicated. The desire to replicate the substrate surface having nanostructures is to provide a wide variety of low cost SERS substrates. In one embodiment the replicating of substrate with fabricated nanostructures does not require an etching process. In one embodiment the surface of the substrate with fabricated nanostructures can be replicated on a material different than the material of the substrate. In another embodiment the surface of the substrate with fabricated nanostructures can be replicated on a material that is the same as the material of the substrate.

In one embodiment the original substrate surface with nanostructures is used as a master mold. In one embodiment the replicating can be achieved by embossing. In another embodiment a layer of polymer can be applied to the substrate surface and the polymer is subsequently peeled off the substrate surface. The peeled off polymer is then used as SERS substrate having a plurality of nanostructures. In various embodiments the replicating is achieved by but not limited to stamping thermal embossing or UV curing. In a further embodiment the replicating of a substrate with nanostructures does not require an etching process. In one embodiment the replicating of a substrate with nanostructures does not require a vacuum process. In another embodiment a positive mold is used for replicating. In a further embodiment a negative mold is used for replicating. In a further embodiment the original substrate with nanostructures can be impressed into a replicating material to a range of depth of 500 nm or less. In another embodiment the original substrate with nanostructures can be impressed into a replicating material to a range of depth of 100 nm or less. For example the replicated material can be but is not limited to plastic thermal plastic acrylic UV curable material or metal. It should be appreciated that any material capable of maintaining structures at a nanometer scale can be used as the replicating material.

The material for the replicated substrate surface with nanostructures can be any material that allows for the replication of the substrate surface with nanostructures. The material for the replicated substrate surface with nanostructures is not limited to silicon. In another embodiment the material for the replicated substrate surface with nanostructures is different than the original substrate material. In one embodiment the material for the replicated substrate surface with nanostructures is the same as the original substrate material. For example the material for the replicated substrate surface with nanostructures can be the same as the original substrate material by the use of a release layer.

After the substrate surface with nanostructures is replicated as described at block a SERS active metal is deposited over a surface of the replicated nanostructures as described at block . In one embodiment the SERS active metal can be evaporated over the replicated nanostructures. In a further embodiment the SERS active metal can be chemically deposited by over the replicated nanostructures. In one embodiment the SERS active metal is chemically deposited by the process of plating. Furthermore the SERS active metal can be deposited over the replicated nanostructures by a pre assembled nanostructure coating. The pre assembled nanostructure coating can be a pre synthesized metal that is then deposited over the replicated nanostructures. In one embodiment the deposition of the SERS active metal does not require masking. In another embodiment the deposition of the SERS active metal does not require lithography processes. In another embodiment there is post processing after the deposition of metal.

The substrate used and nanostructures can have their statistical mechanical chemical and optical properties tailored by varying the starting material etching and deposition parameters. In one embodiment dopants such as but not limited to N and P can affect the conductivity and thus the plasmonic structures of the nanostructured surfaces of the substrates. Dopants can also affect the electromagnetic field enhancement on Raman scattering.

The depth of the height of the nanostructures can be controlled by silicon on sapphire SOS structures and or silicon on insulator SOI structures. The SOS and or SOI structures provide etch stops to help control the height of the nanostructures. The time of etching as described above also controls the height of the nanostructures. Etching can also control and optimize the profiles density and distribution of the nanostructures on the substrate surface. The control parameters of the etching can be but are not limited to Bosch process time steps gas flow or power. Planarization and etch can also provide an independent control of the height of the nanostructures on the substrate surface.

The SERS active metals deposited over the nanostructures can optimize the field enhancement and stability of the substrates. Control parameters of the deposition can be but are not limited to the materials thickness rate or surface finish.

As described above currently available SERS substrates can require patterned masking and etch stopping layers. The masking and etch stopping layers make the substrate expensive and limits the density of the sites that enhances the Raman signal. The limitations of the substrate surface provides for a weak Raman signal that can make it difficult to detect and measure the Raman scattering signal and make it difficult to detect and identify the molecular species. Moreover even if the available substrate enhances the Raman scattering signal the enhanced Raman scattering signal is usually in a localized area s on the substrate and not uniform across the substrate surface. The large disparity between the area of the Raman scattering signal and the area of the substrate surface make it burdensome to search and locate the signal and consequently burdensome to detect and identify the molecular species. In order to find the Raman scattering signal a microscope or the like is used to find the weak signal in a localized area. The process to find the Raman scattering signal can be quite burdensome and time consuming.

Compared to currently available SERS substrates in one embodiment the Raman signal is enhanced by a factor of 7. The wave length of the pumping light source was 785 nm. In another embodiment the Raman signal is enhanced by a factor of 5 compared to a currently available SERS substrate. The wave length of the pumping light source was 632 nm. In another embodiment the Raman signal is increased by over 10 times compared to a currently available SERS substrate. In one embodiment compared to a flat substrate the SERS signal is enhanced by a factor of 10.

The nanostructures fabricated on the surface of the substrate have a uniform density across the surface of the substrate. In one embodiment the uniform density of the nanostructures provides for a uniform and reliable enhanced Raman scattering signal across the surface of the substrate. In another embodiment the area of uniform density of nanostructures is greater than 100 cm. In a further embodiment the area of a uniform and reliable Raman scattering signal is greater than 100 cm. In one embodiment searching for the Raman scattering is not required because the enhanced Raman scattering signal is uniform and reliable across the substrate surface. In another embodiment the substrate is a large area nanostructured substrate that exhibits consistently repeatable strong enhancement of Raman scattering over the substrate.

Although the subject matter has been described in a language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims

