---

title: Control for signal redundancy
abstract: A process is provided by method and circuit for transmitting message information from a first platform to a second platform. The first platform has first and second servers. The second platform has first and second receivers that correspond to the server counterparts. Each of the servers has a respective server port and each of the receivers has a respective receiver port. Each respective server port corresponds to each respective receiver port. The process includes several steps. First, one of the first and second servers is designated as an assigned server, with the other being a backup server. Second, the message information is sent to the first and second servers. Third, the message information is forwarded to the respective server port that corresponds to the assigned server. Fourth, the message information is transmitted from the respective server port to the respective receiver port that corresponds to the assigned server. Fifth, the message information is forwarded from the respective receiver port to the corresponding receiver. Sixth, assigned and backup verification signals are sent to corresponding receiver ports. Seventh, the verification signals are transmitted to corresponding server ports. Eighth, the verification signals are forwarded to a transmission assigner. Ninth, the process switches from said one of the first and second servers as the backup server and the other as the assigned server in response to absence of the assigned verification signal, otherwise maintaining the one as the assigned server. Preferably, the process further includes terminating transmission of the message information in response to absence of both of the assigned and backup verification signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195758&OS=08195758&RS=08195758
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08195758
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081009
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to signal redundancy. In particular the invention provides control for switching from an assigned transmitter to a backup transmitter without redundant signal communication.

Communication between at least two electronic or computer platforms can be compromised by intermittent interruptions. To ensure reliability for transmit and receipt of a message such communication may be sent across two or more channels. In particular these processes involve duplicate transmission and reception channels with attendant hardware and protocols for selecting which channel to accept.

Conventional redundant transmission methods yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular these inventive embodiments involve a complimentary pair of transmitters and receivers both sending verification signals but only one designated set sending and receiving the message the other set remaining on standby until the designated set is interrupted.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for transmitting message information from first to second computer platforms. The first platform has first and second servers. The second platform has corresponding first and second receivers. Each of the servers has a respective server port and each of the receivers has a respective receiver port. Each respective server port corresponds to each respective receiver port. The process includes several steps. First one of the first and second servers is designated as an assigned server with the other being a backup server. Second the message information is sent to the first and second servers. Third the message information is forwarded to the respective server port that corresponds to the assigned server.

Fourth the message information is transmitted from the respective server port to the respective receiver port that corresponds to the assigned server. Fifth the message information is forwarded from the respective receiver port to the corresponding receiver. Sixth assigned and backup verification signals are sent to corresponding receiver ports. Seventh the verification signals are transmitted to corresponding server ports. Eighth the verification signals are forwarded to a transmission assigner. Ninth the process switches from said one of the first and second servers as the backup server and the other as the assigned server in response to absence of the assigned verification signal otherwise maintaining the one as the assigned server.

Various exemplary embodiments also provide terminating transmission of the message information in response to absence of both of the assigned and backup verification signals. Various exemplary embodiments alternatively provide comparison of transmission delay to an acceptable threshold for determining whether to switch assigned and backup servers.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The software redundancy algorithm enables redundancy of communication between two computer platforms without duplicate transmission of the data. The benefit of this approach is that the data are only transmitted over the assigned signal through which all data pass . The backup signal that takes over the sending of data in case the assigned signal fails sends only any a handshake that verifies receipt of the signal.

In many communication scenarios data may be sensitive to compromise. Various exemplary embodiments maintain redundancy without actually sending the data over both assigned and backup signals during the entire communication interval. Of course probability of unauthorized interception and decryption of a message increases as the transmission period lengths and with message repetition.

Under the disclosed embodiments a single signal transmission reduces the probability of interception by restricting transmission to a single instance. This approach provides further benefit by requiring less bandwidth than conventional methods because only the assigned signal sends large amounts of data or sensitive information vulnerable to compromise.

The exemplary embodiments provide this switching operation for content message exchange through logical algorithms coupled with verification message exchange to ensure continuity in transmission and reception. These aspects are further described in . This process enables implementation of this redundancy using logical commands and without the necessity of additional hardware.

Upon receipt discussed subsequently the first port sends a receiver message to a first verification client or else the second port sends a receiver message to a second verification client . Either client forwards its message to a first signal checker which declares a communications assigner as being either the first or second server. The other non assigned server constitutes the backup. The assigner in turn provides the corresponding value to the first and second clients as updates.

A second computer B receives the message from the first computer through third and fourth Ethernet ports . The first Ethernet port transmits the message by a first message socket to the third Ethernet port whereas the second Ethernet port transmits the message by a second message socket to the fourth Ethernet port . The third and first ports exchange verification signals by a first verification socket . The fourth and second ports exchange verification signals by a second verification socket .

If received by the third port the message is forwarded to a first message server . If received by the fourth port the message is instead forwarded to a second message server . A received message is provided as an update from either of the first and second servers . A second signal checker receives the received message and declares a communications assigner as either the first or second message server or based on the message for the second computer .

The checker provides a source signal to a confirmation indicator which forwards the identity of the assigned signal to the first and second verification servers . For the first message server being assigned the first server submits a verification signal to the checker as well as to the third Ethernet port which transmits that return signal via the verification socket to the first Ethernet port .

For the second message server being assigned the second server submits the verification signal to the checker as well as to the fourth Ethernet port which transmits that return signal via the verification socket to the second Ethernet port . The first and second ports respectively submit the conditionally received return signal to the first and second verification clients and to the first signal checker .

The message can be sent from the first computer to the second computer only by either the first signal indicating the first message server being assigned for communication through the first message socket or else the second signal indicating the second message server being assigned for communication through the second message socket . The message cannot logically be sent to the second computer via both message sockets concurrently. The verification clients both operate simultaneously for receiving the return signal.

A second signal client communicates with a second signal server to determine a second signal reception time . A second response query compares the second time to an acceptability threshold. If satisfied the query sends an okay signal to the server but otherwise sends a second excessive signal to a second quality determiner . The first and second clients send a first message to identify which message server or to receive communication assignment.

Depending on which server is assigned for communication the first and second clients can send a signal to the assigner in response to the signal time first or second as applicable being satisfactory. The first quality determiner determines whether the second message server is unacceptable after the first query has found the first time delay to be excessive . The second quality determiner determines whether the first message server is unacceptable after the second query has found the second time delay to be excessive .

In response to the alternate signal being unacceptable the associated the first or second determiner sends a signal to a signal terminator to terminate communication. Thus if the assigned server s time response or exceeds the delay threshold and also the backup server is determined to be unacceptable communication ceases completely. However if the assigned server s time response exceeds the delay threshold but the alternate backup server is acceptable communication switches to that backup.

Acceptability of a server as a backup depends on transmission and receipt of the backup s verification signal. Thus both the assigned and backup servers first and second preferably send their respective verification signals to indicate their active status. Failure of the message signal being received from the assigned server within the threshold delay together with failure of the backup verification signal terminates communication between the computers .

If the first determiner finds the second message server to be acceptable the communication assignment switches thereto by a first switch message . Similarly if the second determiner finds the first message server to be acceptable the communication assignment switches thereto by a second switch message . Both messages can then submit a second message to identify which server to receive communication assignment as similarly to the clients for the first message .

Data are generally transmitted over a network from one computer e.g. Computer A to another e.g. Computer B via socket communication. A socket server computer and a socket client computer can talk to each other in this way. Each side of a socket can be provided a port number and Internet Protocol IP Address of the platform to be communicated with. A signal may have access to thousands of sockets each with different purposes.

Using the redundancy algorithm each signal is constantly verified through a strictly designated socket for verifying the signal. This is accomplished by sending a message from one side i.e. computer to the other responding back and creating time stamps at both sides. Those time stamps can be continually compared to system time through a separate thread. If the difference between system time and the time stamp exceeds some threshold as determined by its determiner or that signal is declared dead and transmission ceases through that message server.

In various exemplary methods two signals are used although more signals could easily be used with this approach . The one of the signals can be declared as the designated signal through the assigned server. The designated signal represents the communication path through which to transmit all important data. Both sides of the communication path acknowledge which server has been assigned and each socket verifies the assigned IP address as the designation before sending data. If the socket s IP address matches the assigned IP address the socket sends data. Otherwise the signal must be the backup subject to remaining on standby until it is declared to be assigned. If the assigned server fails e.g. interruption beyond the threshold the backup is declared to be assigned and the conditional logic allows communication through its socket. If the previous assigned server that failed ever returns to operational status it becomes the backup to the new and current assigned server.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

