---

title: Methods of interacting between mobile devices and voice response systems
abstract: A system and method of facilitating communications between a mobile device and an interactive voice response system is described. In some cases, the mobile device determines a called number is associated with an IVR system, and performs an action in response to the determination. For example, the mobile device may present visual information to a user related to audio information received from the IVR system. In some cases, the mobile device sends DTMF tones to the IVR system in response to or without user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744414&OS=08744414&RS=08744414
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 08744414
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080107
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application of International Application Serial No. PCT US2008 050447 filed on Jan. 7 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 883 609 filed on Jan. 5 2007 entitled CALL INTERCEPT METHODS SUCH AS INTERACTIVE VOICE RESPONSE NAVIGATION METHOD and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 948 424 filed on Jul. 6 2007 entitled METHODS OF INTERACTING BETWEEN MOBILE DEVICES AND VOICE RESPONSE SYSTEMS both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 672 499 filed on Feb. 7 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 539 484 entitled A METHOD AND SYSTEM OF ENHANCING VOICE CALLS SUCH AS ENHANCING VOICE CALLS WITH DATA SERVICES which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Current methods for assisting customers at a mobile device often require a call to a call center and retrieval of data from a network. For example a subscriber may dial an information number from their mobile device such as 411. Once the subscriber dials the number an automated system or an operator may answer the call and provide the subscriber with a menu of options. The subscriber selects an option from the menu by pressing buttons on the mobile device or by saying the option. Once the subscriber requests data by selecting an option the automated system retrieves the data from a network and delivers the data to the subscriber over the mobile device.

In many cases calls to information customer assistance or other numbers are answered by automated voice response systems. Typically automated systems attempt to interact with subscribers by sending prerecorded questions and waiting for responses. These systems may be limited in how they interact with subscribers.

A method and system of interacting with voice recognition systems such as IVR systems using a mobile device is disclosed. Subscribers may dial one or more predetermined numbers on their respective mobile device. Software on the mobile device determines whether the number corresponds to one of the predetermined numbers such as a number known to be associated with an IVR system . The device may initiate a script when the number is dialed before or after the call has gone through while the call is on hold and so on. For example if the number dialed matches a known voice enhanced number the mobile device executes a script that facilitates interactions between the mobile device and an IVR system related to the voice enhanced number.

In some examples the system performs one or more actions during an ongoing voice call between a user and an IVR system. For example a mobile device may visually display to a user content associated with information provided to the user over the voice channel by the IVR system. The device may facilitate interactions between the user and the IVR system by using input received from the user in response to the visually displayed content. For example the device may display one or more options related to a posed inquiry by the IVR system receive user input selecting one of the options and transmit the user selections to the IVR system navigating the IVR system for the user. In some cases the device may generate and send DTMF tones to the IVR system in response to user input enabling the device to navigate the voice response aspects of the IVR system.

In some examples the device may transmit identification information about the user and or mobile device to a workflow system associated with an IVR system at a customer support or other assistance center. For example the device may transmit diagnostic information related to the configuration of the device initiate a call to an IVR system and navigate the IVR system using simulated audio commands e.g. DTMF tones . The device may do so with or without user interaction or knowledge.

The technology will now be described with respect to various embodiments. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for these embodiments of the technology. However one skilled in the art will understand that the technology may be practiced without many of these details. In other instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the technology.

It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the technology. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

Additionally the subscriber identity module or SIM card may contain any or all of the processing components memory components or storage components described herein. To that end the device may perform SIM card based processing memory or storage.

Aspects of the technology can be embodied in a special purpose computing device or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. Aspects of the technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the technology may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Indeed computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the technology may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme . Those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that portions of the technology reside on a server computer while corresponding portions reside on a client computer such as a mobile or portable device and thus while certain hardware platforms are described herein aspects of the technology are equally applicable to nodes on a network. In an alternative embodiment the mobile device or portable device may represent the server portion while the server may represent the client portion.

The components within the mobile device allow the device to provide and or implement handset based services and network based services. The authentication component may implement SIM Subscriber Identity Module card based or standalone authentication to meet network requirements for desired levels of security. Authenticating a system to meet network requirements may not be required but is often recommended.

The hardware interface component may retrieve or receive data regarding actions performed by the mobile device status information regarding the functionality of the mobile device and so on. For example the component may receive information related to changing volume changing frequency retrieving SIM Subscriber Identity Module ID connection status from the SIM or radio hardware and others. The report component may collect and forward the data reported by the mobile device to the network . The report component may also encrypt the handset identification information to provide increased security. For example the report component may encrypt the information so that only the host information management component can decipher any transmitted handset identification information.

The script interface serves as a standard application programming interface for executing scripts . More specifically the script interface provides an interface between scripts and the various hardware specific and executable program specific functions. The script interface allows a single customer service script to be deployed across multiple operating systems and hardware configurations. In addition the script interface includes a standard API Application Programming Interface for both the hardware OS side and the script interface.

The script platform authenticates runs and updates all scripts manages reporting updates and changes communicates with the host information management component communicates with a GUI Graphical User Interface and manages customer surveys and interviews. The script platform can mix and match calls through the script interface to acquire information to change or correct settings on the phone and to perform additional functions as described below. The host information management component can push a notification to the script platform via USSD Unstructured Supplementary Services Data SMS Short Message Service IP Internet Protocol or any other network connectivity that the mobile device supports. The script platform can run the scripts after authentication and the scripts can be authenticated to via the network accessible components or to the phone. The scripts may be any application routine snippet of code binary sequence binary code instructions or other executable data that executes on the mobile device to cause the mobile device to perform an action such as to provide enhanced interaction with an IVR system.

The network accessible components enable the mobile device to communicate with and to retrieve data from outside the device such as from a customer support center having an IVR system. The network accessible components may include wired and wireless components. The mobile network component may perform many services including billing CRM Customer Relationship Management provisioning and others. Furthermore the mobile network component may return data calls made by mobile devices via standard network protocols e.g. IP DTMF Dual Tone Multiple Frequency SMS USSD etc. .

The mobile network operator customer service component may also consist of one or more systems relating to customer service including billing CRM provisioning and others. The customer service component may also include an IVR component that receives voiced communications or other audio communications from a user of the mobile device and responds to the voiced communications. The host information management component controls interactions between the mobile device and the customer service component . The host information management component may transmit updates to the mobile device . The mobile device typically employs a unique handset ID or serial number and a mobile phone number. The report data database provides storage for report information gathered from the mobile device . The updated scripts database stores scripts that the customer service component or other network accessible components provide to the mobile device. The updated scripts database may be managed and versioned as desired by the host information management component can be targeted at specific subscribers or groups of subscribers and can include requests for reports and customer interview surveys.

Further details regarding components within the mobile device and or components accessible to the mobile device over a network may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 672 499 filed on Feb. 7 2007 entitled A METHOD AND SYSTEM OF ENHANCING VOICE CALLS SUCH AS ENHANCING VOICE CALLS WITH DATA SERVICES which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an enhanced IVR system is shown. A user operates a mobile device or mobile equipment ME running IVR enabling scripts not shown . The user and device may use audio channels and or data channels over a network to connect to an IVR interaction component . The IVR interaction component may transmit and or receive data from a data server or a customer support agent utilizing a customer service center server via a workflow component that facilitates the exchange of data between the IVR interaction component and other components within the system .

The enhanced IVR system provides both voice based and data based services over some or all channels between system components and or . For example the user via the mobile device may transmit and receive audio based communications from the IVR system or the customer support agent . These communications may be voice communications or touchtone communications such as DTMF tones computer recognized voice grammar computer recognized utterances and so on . The mobile device may also communicate with the IVR system via DTMF tones or other recognized audio signals generated by scripts executing on the mobile device .

The IVR system may communicate with the workflow component via various data channels. For example the workflow component may run applications that act to facilitate communications between humans and computers. Examples include voice XML CCXML OpenVXI and so on. The workflow component receives audio based data and converts that data to information understandable by the other components. Additionally the workflow component may also receive data based information from the other components and convert that information to voice based data.

In some cases the mobile device may communicate directly with the workflow system or with customer support data server over data channels .

Referring to data flow diagrams illustrating data and voice transmission channels between network elements are shown. For example illustrates example analog transmission types between network components such as IVR system the customer service representative the user and or the mobile device . The user may communicate to a customer service representative via a voice channel . The customer service representative may communicate to the user via voice channel . The IVR system may communicate to the user via a voice channel . The voice channel may use TTS synthesized communications or prerecorded playback. The user may communicate to the IVR system via a voice channel . Utterances or other spoke grammar may be recognized and or recorded by the IVR system . The user may also communicate to the IVR system via a voice channel using DTMF tones. The DTMF tones may be manually produced by the user such as the user pressing buttons on a keypad . The mobile device may communicate to the IVR system via a voice channel using DTMF tones. The DTMF tones may be automatically produced by the script running on the mobile device . The IVR system may communicate to the mobile device via voice channel using DTMF tones.

Alternatively or additionally transmission channels may be digital channels. illustrates example digital transmission types between network elements such as a local script cache on the mobile device a mobile device a workflow or network server and a database server . For example mobile device may send messages or documents over channel to workflow or network server . The server may send scripts messages or document over channel to the mobile device . The server may use channel to store data in database server or query database server . The database server may respond via channel . The mobile device may save scripts to a local scripts database via channel and may load scripts from database via channel . The mobile device may also store data to database server via channel or may query database via channel . The server may respond to queries via channel .

The system described herein provides mobile devices and users of mobile devices enhanced functionality when interacting with voice recognition systems. Such enhanced functionality may include efficient user interfaces automated repairs or updates of components of the device automated responses and so on. For example the system allows users of mobile devices to visually interact with an interactive voice response IVR system while also verbally interacting with the IVR system or in some cases instead of verbally interacting with the system . During such an interaction the system may perform background tasks such as repairing configuration problems providing information to be later used in presented tutorials about a feature of the mobile device and so on.

Scripts running on a mobile device allow an interactive voice response IVR system to perform actions on the mobile device. In some cases one or more scripts such as those described herein enable a mobile device to receive commands from an IVR system over a voice or data channel communicatively linking the mobile device and the IVR system. These IVR system originating commands may cause actions to be performed on the mobile device such as coordinating content displayed to the user via a graphical user interface GUI with voiced commands received from the IVR system. The content displayed to the user may be stored on the mobile device transmitted from the IVR system or retrieved from another network location. The mobile device via executing scripts may also send commands back to the IVR system or to other associated components.

In some cases scripts running on the mobile device may initiate the dialing of an IVR number such as a number known to be associated with an interactive voice response system . Once connected to the IVR system associated with the dialed number the scripts may then communicate with the IVR system by sending dual tone multiple frequency DTMF tones to the IVR system. In some cases the scripts use the DTMF tones to cause the IVR system to transmit voiced commands back to the mobile device.

Referring to a process flow illustrating an interaction between scripts running on a mobile device and an interactive voice recognition system is shown as routine . In block a user of a mobile device initiates a voice call such as dialing a number and pressing connect . In decision block the system determines if the destination number of the voice call is IVR enhanced that is if the number provides IVR capabilities and or may be enhanced with script instructions . If the system determines the number is not IVR enhanced the routine proceeds to block else the routine proceeds to block . At block when the number is not IVR enhanced the routine ends and the voice call proceeds as a typical voice call. Details describing the determination of voice enhanced numbers will now be discussed with respect to .

Referring to an example process flow for determining if a dialed number has enhanced voice capabilities such as in block is shown as routine . Upon detecting a dialed number the system in block looks to a local database of IVR enhanced numbers and scripts and attempts to match the number with one of the locally stored numbers. Alternatively or additionally the system may compare the dialed number with a range of numbers such as a range of numbers known to be voice enhanced or may look to a portion of the number itself such as looking at the number for a specific sequence of alphanumeric characters .

The database may be in the local memory of the mobile device. The system may periodically update the database after IVR workflow changes IVR communications and so on.

If the system matches the dialed number a number stored in the local database or matches a range of numbers or numbers having a certain sequence of characters the routine proceeds to block and the system determines the dialed number is voice enhanced.

If the number is not stored in the local database or does not otherwise indicate voice enhancement the routine proceeds to block . In block the system looks to a database of IVR enhanced numbers and scripts contained on a SIM card and attempts to match the dialed number with one of the numbers stored in the SIM card database . Further details with respect to the storage of numbers and or scripts on SIM cards are discussed in commonly assigned PCT Application No. US2007 080351 filed on Oct. 3 3007 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR STORING OR PERFORMING FUNCTIONS WITH REMOVABLE MEMORY SUCH AS A SUBSCRIBER IDENTITY MODULE OF A MOBILE DEVICE which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Of course numbers could be stored elsewhere in the device.

If the dialed number is matched to a number stored in the SIM database or is matched to a range of numbers or numbers having a certain sequence of characters the routine proceeds to block and the system determines the dialed number is voice enhanced.

If the number is not stored in the SIM database or does not otherwise indicate voice enhancement the routine proceeds to block . In block the system looks to a database and or a database contained at a network server and attempts to match the dialed number with a number stored in one of databases . The system may connect with the databases over a network such as the Internet or other network. The system may look to a public database such as a mobile service center MSC having a database . Database may be an HLR a VLR or other public or accessible databases. The system may also look to a server specific database at a customer support server or at the workflow server and so on that contains additional known IVR enhanced numbers and scripts. If the system matches the dialed number to a number stored in one of the network databases the routine proceeds to block and the system determines the dialed number is voice enhanced. If the number does not match the routine proceeds to block and the system determines the dialed number is not voice enhanced. Of course the system may employ other methods when determining if a number is IVR enhanced. For example different combinations of steps and or may be employed by the system.

Referring back to at block when the system determines the number is voice enhanced the system loads and executes one or more scripts related to IVR communications. In block the system processes the script. In processing the script the system may perform some or all of the actions or functions described in blocks . The system may perform the described actions in various sequences and orders other than those shown in .

The system may in block synthesize a DTMF or other type of tone sequence play back other audio such as a prerecorded audio file or perform other audio based actions on an analog line. The system may in block recognize and or interact with a DTMF tone sequence or other audio transmissions such as human voice received on an analog line. The system may in block send data or commands to a workflow server. The system may in block receive data or commands from a workflow server. In sending and or receiving data or commands from a workflow server the system may connect with the workflow server over a number of data channels such as an SMS channel an IP or IP6 channel a USSD channel and so on.

The system may in block update a display or other GUI on or related to the mobile device. For example the system may present a user with a menu on the GUI related to audio communications received from the IVR system. The system may in block receive user input from button presses soft button presses on a GUI and so on. In block the system may perform other scripted or enhanced actions such as other actions described herein . Additionally the system may in block disconnect an analog connection line as one of the actions. Once script instructions are processed and actions are performed the routine proceeds from any or all of blocks to block and the system ends script processing.

Referring to a process flow illustrating an alternative interaction between scripts running on a mobile device and an interactive voice recognition system is shown as routine . In this example in block an application or script running on a mobile device wishes to interact with an IVR system. For example a script running on the mobile device may detect an incorrect configuration and attempt to automatically notify the workflow server without alerting the user. In block the system initiates a voice call to the IVR system and the routine proceeds to block where the script processing described above begins.

In some cases the application or script sends data to a workflow server before initiating the voice call to the IVR system and appends a unique identifier that provides identification information to the called number of the IVR system. The identifier may identify a database entry in the workflow server the device the SIM and or other related components. For example the application may send diagnostic information related to the configuration of the device to the workflow server and initiate a call to a customer assistance number to correct the configuration. Once called the IVR system determines the identity of the mobile device using the identification information and retrieves the diagnostic information sent to the workflow system. The IVR system may receive instructions from the device to transmit an audio based menu of options over the voice channel to allow the user to better understand the problem take action to correct the problem by sending commands to the workflow component or to perform other actions. Further details related to workflow servers and identifiers will be described herein.

Referring to a flow diagram illustrating interactions between the IVR system and other network components upon receiving a call from a mobile device is shown as routine . In block the IVR system receives an incoming call such as a call from a mobile device running an IVR enhancement script. In some cases the system receives an identifier along with the incoming call such as extended dialing digits with caller ID information. Further details with respect to unique identifiers will be described herein.

In block the system fetches instructions such as VXML instructions. Although VXML instructions are shown in this example the instructions may be implemented in other languages. In some cases the system may communicate via http or other channels with a workflow server when fetching instructions. The workflow server may send or receive data from the mobile device over a data channel such as an SMS channel a USSD channel an SS7 channel an intermediate server such as customer support data server and so on .

In block the IVR system determines that the incoming call is still connected and proceeds to block else proceeds to block and ends. In block the system processes the fetched instructions. The processed instructions may initiate some or all of the actions shown in blocks . The system may initiate the actions in orders or sequences not shown in .

In block the instructions may cause the system to read or write data across the network. The system may use data sent or received in blocks and when reading or writing data. The system may also retrieve CGI scripts such as those returned by GET POST and so on . Additionally the system may perform other actions not shown in .

In block the instructions may cause the system to recognize received utterances and touch tones such as DTMF Tones . Caller ID or extended dialing digits may also be recognized to identify a caller or to recognize a unique identifier used to retrieve a data record stored on a workflow server. In block the instructions may cause the system to play an audio file. In block the instructions may cause the system to synthesize text to speech. In block the instructions may cause the system to disconnect or transfer a call. In block the instructions may cause the system to record some or all of an audio stream. After performing some or all of the actions in blocks the routine proceeds to block to await further instructions. Additionally other instructions may be performed such as mathematic conditional and or logic operations and so on.

An example of enhanced IVR navigation as discussed above will now be described. In this example a mobile phone user wants to change his her billing address. He dials his service provider s customer service number such as 611. 

The dialing of the number or when the device receives an indication that the user is attempting to connect to the number triggers a script running in a background layer of the user s mobile device. The script scans a local database of IVR enhanced numbers for the dialed number. In this example a match is found and an associated IVR enhancement script loads and performs relevant actions.

At the destination associated with the number an IVR system answers the call with a prerecorded message. In this example the system plays the following message to the user Welcome to Vector Mobile customer support. At this point there may be a brief pause to allow the mobile device script to load and prepare for response.

The script at the mobile device synthesizes and sends a DTMF sequence to the IVR system that indicates to the IVR system the user s number or other identification information and that the script is active on the mobile device.

The IVR system receives the DTMF sequence decodes the user information such as user account information user login information and so on determines that the mobile device is running an IVR enhancement script and plays another prerecorded message to the user such as Dear Mr. Smith please make a menu selection by either saying the desired menu option or look to your phone s display to see the options graphically. The IVR system then voices the menu options for the user and or causes the mobile device to graphically present related menu options to the user via the user s mobile phone display.

The user sees the menu option change my billing address on the mobile phone s display and selects the option using a directional button and or softkey navigation.

The IVR system receives the menu selection by the user sends the user a change billing address form to the user s display and terminates the voice connection. The user then fills in the form using softkey navigation and sends the form to a workflow server associated with the IVR system. For example the running script sends an SMS message containing the address request change and the new address to the workflow server after receiving the form information from the user. The workflow server validates the address as a valid address and sends an SMS message to the mobile device signaling the validation of the address.

Upon receiving the return SMS message the script dials a phone number such as 6112345 and displays to the user a message such as Now connecting with a customer service representative to verify your address. Please listen. 

A customer service representative answers the call. At or near the same time the representative receives information about the user and information about how to verify the user such as the user s password social security number mother s maiden name and so on . The representative uses the received information and verifies the user.

Upon verification the customer service representative sends the updated billing address to a business support system. The customer service representative also causes an SMS message to be sent to the mobile device. The script may then receive the message update the mobile device address book and display a message to the user such as Address update completed. Thank you for using Vector Mobile. The script then terminates.

In block the device presents the message to the user. In this example the message relates to a special offer from the service provider. In decision block if the user wishes to connect to the offer i.e. the system receives a positive indication from the user the routine proceeds to block else the routine proceeds to block or block . In block the user indicates that he she is not interested at that time and the system in block triggers a reminder and ends. In block the user indicates a request for more information and the system may send the user an information page . The user may then input a positive indication a negative indication or may indicate a return to the offer. In block the user indicates a lack of interest in the offer and the routine ends .

In block the device after receiving a positive indication from the user in blocks or initiates a voice call to an IVR system and enters a promotional code for the offer. In some cases the system will enter the IVR enhanced number and the promotional code for the user. For example the system may enter the promotional code using DTMF tone sequence synthesis.

Referring to an example of display screens used in the example of is shown. Referring to and other screen displays representative phone or computer displays or web pages are shown for performing certain tasks described herein. The screens provide facilities to receive input data such as a form with field s to be filled in menu selections pull down menus or entries allowing one or more of several options to be selected buttons sliders hypertext links or other known user interface tools for receiving user input. While certain ways of displaying information to users is shown and described with respect to certain Figures those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that various other alternatives may be employed. The terms screen web page and page are generally used interchangeably herein.

The screens may be stored as display descriptions graphical user interfaces or other methods of depicting information on a computer screen e.g. commands links fonts colors layout sizes and relative positions and the like where the layout and information or content to be displayed on the page is stored in a database. In general a link refers to any resource locator identifying a resource on a network such as a display description provided by an organization having a site or node on the network. A display description as generally used herein refers to any method of automatically displaying information on a computer screen in any of the above noted formats as well as other formats such as email or character code based formats algorithm based formats e.g. vector generated Flash format or matrix or bit mapped formats.

Displays and or may be used in providing instructions to the user in the above example. For example screen may be used in collaboration with block . Screen displays the promotional offer such as in block . Screen displays information about the offer such as in block . In this example the system initiates and completes a voice call to an IVR system without the need for the user to dial the IVR phone number and wade through slow and or tedious IVR menus. The user does not need to listen to an IVR voice channel or provide utterances other voiced input or touch tone button sequences which are acceptable to the IVR. The graphical menu functionality in this example may also be implemented on top of an already existing IVR and workflow system with little or no modification necessary to the IVR or workflow system.

In some examples the methods described herein may expand the use of an interactive voice recognition IVR system. The IVR system may gather or receive data or other information from a mobile device from workflow servers or other associated components and provide the data to a representative or other IVR components upon receiving a call from a mobile device.

In some examples the methods are able to recognize a mobile device from information received via a called number such as a customer service number. They may provide information in or with the called number via a unique identifier enabling a customer service representative or automated voice response system to receive information about the mobile device when called.

A unique identifier is any string of digits or values capable of identifying a mobile device from other mobile devices. The system may generate a unique identifier in a variety of ways or utilize device related identifiers. In some cases the system may use a mobile device identifier such as an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or an Electronic Serial Number ESN . An IMEI is an identifier of a GSM device unique across all GSM devices and may be 16 decimal digits long. An ESN uniquely identifies a CDMA phone and may be 10 digits long. In other cases the system may use the mobile device s phone number as a unique identifier.

In some cases the system components may generate identifiers. For example a server associated with a service provider or manufacturer of the mobile device may generate identifiers and communicate them to the device over a data channel. The server may generate identifiers in a variety of ways that enable the identifier to act as a database key. For example the server may generate a sequence of numbers as the identifier.

Referring to a routine for accessing mobile device information via user identification is shown. In step the device creates or retrieves a unique identifier such as a global unique identifier GUID upon initiation of a voice call from a user. In some cases the device may determine the user has dialed a customer service number using the call intercept methods described herein and initiate a script to retrieve the unique identifier for the user.

In step the device appends the unique identifier to the dialed customer service number and places the voice call. In some cases the device appends the unique identifier to all dialed numbers. In some cases the device appends the unique identifier to numbers associated with facilities capable of processing extended numbers. An extended number may refer to a number containing the dialed number of a called party plus an appended unique identifier. In some cases the device uses some of the methods described herein to determine if the number is capable of receiving extended numbers.

In step a customer service center or other facility receives the extended number. In step the customer service center accesses information about the device related to the received unique identifier. The customer service center may receive such information before the call was received and may retrieve such information using the unique identifier. For example the customer service center may contain a database relating unique identifiers for mobile devices and corresponding status or other reporting information. Upon receipt of a call and appended unique identifier the customer service center is able to match the received unique identifier with a similar stored unique identifier and retrieve information about the mobile device. The retrieved information may be diagnostic information retrieved from the device or received from the device. For example a workflow server within the customer service center may launch or run a script on the device that performs diagnostics or other information gathering and transmits such information to the database. The customer service center may then relate the transmitted information to a unique identifier of the device and store the information in the database. Thus the system enables a representative at a customer service center or an interactive voice response system to receive dynamically or recently updated information about the characteristics or status of a mobile device and or associated calling party before a simulated voice conversation occurs.

Customer service calls may be shorter and more effective as a result of representatives and IVR systems receiving information from the user identifiers as they may be able to diagnose problems without receiving much information from users. For example a service provider may modify or selectively determine what information to retrieve upon receipt of a unique identifier and tailor what options instructions to present to a user with an IVR system. Additionally the identifiers may facilitate or enhance simulated voice communications between mobile devices and IVR systems because the identifiers enable the IVR system to retrieve supporting information that may normally be provided by a user of the mobile device. For example the IVR system may retrieve historical information about previous calls historical information about the device or caller and so on.

Referring to an example of a computer display showing device information and configuration data as used by a call center agent is shown. While on a call with a subscriber the IVR system can from his or her desktop computer send diagnostic commands over the air to the mobile device. In response the mobile device retrieves or gathers diagnostics and status information and sends them back to the agent s computer via the network. In this way the IVR system and supporting workflow system is able to correct problems on the first call with the subscriber and the subscriber is never asked to perform tedious tasks or asked to call back on a land line. The IVR system may then select voiced options sent to the user or may display information on the user s display related to the diagnostic status information and the voiced options based on the retrieved information.

As can be seen from the system may also display on a computer to a call center agent or on a user display detailed information regarding the mobile device and its owner. A web browser or customer service display includes a menu of options report and history portion e.g. APN list memory analysis applications list etc. the name of the mobile device owner the owner s account number and phone number MSISDN Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Network number international mobile subscriber identity IMSI and details regarding the phone itself such as the manufacturer model number firmware version serial number and IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identifier . Other tabs when selected display the history of the handset as well as other handsets associated with the subscriber phone numbers SIM etc. As also shown in the system can display a media file count representing different types of files e.g. photos audio video the location of those files the total number and size of the files and so forth.

The call center agent or IVR system can initiate actions on the mobile device. For example as shown in the media display portion the call center agent may select a Select button to perform a Move files to Memory Card function that permits the call center agent to move files from the embedded memory on the mobile device to a removable memory card in the device. Other options include initiating a local multimedia messaging service MMS guide for the subscriber moving photos to an online photo album showing subscriber audio analysis and so forth. Likewise the call center agent or IVR system can select an appropriate button in the report report history portion to access a list of available IP network access point names analyze how memory is currently being used on the mobile device list applications currently loaded and or running on the mobile device count media file types as shown in portion and list the content of an application registry for the functionality described above.

The mobile device may be used to collect and to summarize data or metrics from the mobile device. Mobile device activity can be automatically logged and captured for periodic reporting to the network based services. Collected data may be used to determine which applications are being used and how often users are accessing them. The collected data can be used with performance engineering systems and can gather business intelligence from rich device resident data or metrics

The gathering of such mobile device metrics begins by the network operator defining data for collection. All mobile device activities can be locally logged or cached on the mobile device and periodically provided back to the network. Such logged data can include network events and messages. Over the air scripts provided by the network operator to the mobile device can instruct the device on what metrics to gather and with what frequency. For example the service provider may program the mobile device to periodically e.g. monthly report to the network a status of installed executable program and their functional status. The status of the executable programs can be performed via an API application programming interface function called by the reporting system.

Through these scripts stored on the mobile device user and network data is stored locally for periodic reporting and the collection may conform to the network operator s privacy policy while being invisible to the subscriber. Available database and reporting tools may import and use the periodically reported data. Such reporting tools may generate reports formatted for including business intelligence and data warehouse or data mining. As a result such data easily augments network performance engineering systems. In general the following is a list of some metrics that may be collected from mobile devices although many others are possible owner information phone settings IMEI battery level battery level history time charger connected volume level ring tones profile use history number or history of hard resets count of contacts installed applications network settings signal strength radio frequency tower ID carrier ID visiting carrier ID base station history carrier ID history phone number voicemail number handset ID camera capable SIM ID audio recording capable screen resolution screen color depth operating system OS version date and time email configuration hardware make model firmware version audio playback capabilities language memory and memory used connection state or type of connection used volume levels backlight on off sound events profiles SIM contacts turn device powered down device hibernate security settings key pad lock profiles and SIM lock. Access to any of this data is scriptable so that the network service provider may decide what metrics to gather from what mobile devices. The service provider may also capture activities e.g. applications started network status cell tower ID and create standardized scriptable functions that can be combined to create a context sensitive service for the user.

In some examples prior to initiating a call the system may communicate with a workflow server to send device diagnostic information to a server over a data channel such as a server related to a customer service center. For example a script running on the mobile device may determine an incorrect configuration and attempt to correct the configuration automatically without alerting the user or a customer service agent. For example the system may initiate a voice call to the IVR system. In some cases when initiating the voice call the system may append additional digits to a dialed number such as the unique identifiers described herein.

The system upon initiation of the voice call may then perform one or more of the following actions in response to or in collaboration with the IVR system 

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the technology is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the technology to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the technology are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the technology as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

Further the mobile device may employ many other locally stored applications beyond those described above. For example the mobile device may include its own IVR system rather than employing an IVR system at the call center. Thus the subscriber navigates through a series of IVR menus to access desired information some of which may be stored on the phone. However one option in the local IVR could be to have the device place a call to the customer support call center.

In another alternative embodiment the system may provide links to web pages supplied by the wireless service provider where these links are to specific web pages directly addressing a need or question relevant to a current status of a user s mobile device. Such an alternative is useful when a mobile device has a web browser and sufficient data connection to the service provider s web server. Thus a call intercept function on the mobile device may provide a link to a relevant web page or even access that page automatically so that it is displayed to the user rather than for example displaying locally stored content .

While many embodiments described above employ software stored on the mobile device either before being given to a subscriber or during a subscriber call the scripts and other software noted above may be hard coded into the mobile device e.g. stored in EEPROM PROM etc. . Further the above functionality may be implemented without scripts or other special modules.

The teachings of the technology provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

All of the above patents and applications and other references including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated by reference. Aspects of the technology can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the technology.

These and other changes can be made to the technology in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description details certain embodiments of the technology and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the technology can be practiced in many ways. Details of the local based support system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the technology disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the technology should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the technology with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the technology to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the technology encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the technology under the claims.

While certain aspects of the technology are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the technology in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the technology is recited as embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be embodied in a computer readable medium. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the technology.

