---

title: Durable target apparatus and method of on-target visual display
abstract: A durable reusable target apparatus with on-target visual display is described. In embodiments of the invention, pie-shaped target sectors surround a bull's eye sector. Each sector may be associated with one or more illuminated display segments. The display segments are visible at a distance, enabling shooters to determine the sector hit, and to adjust a next shot without looking away, thereby improving shooter proficiency. Various training mode are available. Methods for determining the target sector impacted and algorithms for asserting the correct display segment(s) are described. By utilizing on-target display segments, embodiments of the invention enable the shooter to ascertain the accuracy of the shot without looking away from the sights on the firearm or from the target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356818&OS=08356818&RS=08356818
owner: Real-Time Targets, LLC
number: 08356818
owner_city: Story
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080813
---
Embodiments of the invention described herein pertain to the field of targets. More particularly but not by way of limitation one or more embodiments of the invention enable a durable target apparatus and method of on target visual display in which a shooter is presented with an on target representation of the approximate location of a point of impact of a bullet fired by the shooter. In one or more embodiments of the invention the shooter receives immediate visual feedback for each shot without requiring the shooter to look away from the target.

Traditionally shooters who participate in target practice are unable to see the point of impact of the bullet on a typical non durable paper target downrange because of the small diameter of the bullet hole on the target. At a typical target practice session shooters take one or more shots at a target and then periodically set down the firearm and view the target through a spotting scope or alternatively make their weapon safe and physically approach the target. The shooter then attempts to correlate the marks on the target with previous shots. Occasionally a bullet leaves no additional hole in the target for example when the bullet passes through a hole previously made by another bullet that has already passed through the target. Not only is this approach to determining shot location time consuming shooters have difficulty improving because they do not receive immediate feedback for every shot and in many cases are unsure as to which shot has produced which hole.

Improved paper targets exist which splatter or flake to provide an enlarged area about the hole in the target where the bullet has passed. There are also targets that show a different color around the bullet hole in the target some of which are fluorescent for example. These targets attempt to provide on target visual feedback directly on the target that is more visible than a hole in a non splatter target. These targets still are problematic in that a shot through an existing hole in a target with two or more shots through it already provides no feedback to the user as to which hole the shot passed through. In addition these targets are non durable for example penetrable so must be purchased and replaced cannot be printed out directly by a shooter on his or her own printer and must be patched to cover the holes with the same type of material that splatters or flakes.

Mechanical targets exist that simply allow a shooter to know if the target was hit or not. In other words there is no indication as to which side of the target or how far from the bull s eye a shot has hit. For example some mechanical targets move when hit by a bullet and present for example a different colored target. This type of target is used in the biathlon for example. Other mechanical based targets simply fall over when hit. Alternatively a silhouette target makes a loud noise when hit. In addition mechanical targets generally require some type of action to replace the target to its original position. One method for restoring the position of the target is to shoot a target that is mechanically attached to the other targets that have fallen which provides mechanical energy that pushes the target back to its vertical orientation.

To provide immediate feedback to competitors in shooting matches systems have been developed that display the exact shot location to the shooter after each shot generally by employing a television to show the exact location of the shot displayed on a nearby television monitor. However these systems require shooters to take their eyes off the sights or target to view the last shot location displayed on the nearby monitor. This approach prevents shooters from immediately critiquing their shot because they need to take their eyes away from their sights to view the television monitor. For example in an Olympic standard pistol timed or rapid fire stage five shots are fired within 20 seconds or 10 seconds for example. It is impossible to put the firearm down and check each shot displayed on the monitor as each shot occurs in the time limit allotted.

Other systems exist that detect shot impacts on a target using sensors mounted behind the target. A combination of very complex equations is solved to triangulate the approximate location of the shot and many of these systems must be tuned to type of bullet being shot. For example some systems require thicker metal for various bullet calibers so that the impact of the bullet is only detected by a single impact sensor or minimal number of impact sensors mounted on the rear of the target. By using thicker metal or stronger springs in the impact sensors or high gas compression in the sensors the number of sensors that register a shot can be kept to one or two for example. For these systems if a shot is directly in between two sensors two lights may be presented causing confusion. Complex arbitration logic is then required to only display one light. In addition these systems generally present lights or a score on a board of display that looks like a target but do not present lights directly on or about the target to minimize the time and angle that a shooter looks away from the actual target. Hence these systems are not suitable for action shooting moving target practice timed or rapid fire shooting. Some systems require carved grooves in the rear portion of the target as well to limit the sensors that trigger when an impact from a bullet occurs. This requires extra manufacturing steps and provides areas on the target that can break if not properly curved for example. Other systems drill holes in the back of the target which increases costs and in mentioned. Still other systems utilize complex circuitry to clock the differences in time between sensor triggers to calculate exact locations of the shot impact.

It would be desirable to have a firearm targeting system that could provide a plurality of modes such as high low training and or left right training and or sector and bull s eye based training wherein the feedback to the shooter is presented immediately on target downrange from the shooter. It would also be an advantage to have a firearm targeting system that employs a simple sensor network and hardened target plate that can be used for all calibers of bullets. Furthermore it would be an advantage to have a firearm targeting system that could prompt a shooter to shoot at a sequence of targets and provide immediate feedback of success directly on the target. Furthermore it would be an advantage to have a moving target system that provides feedback of success directly on the target and visible downrange of the shooter without requiring the shooter to look away from the target. For at least the limitations described above there is a need for a durable target apparatus and method of on target visual feedback display that enable shooters receive immediate feedback of each shot without requiring the shooter to look away from the sights on the firearm or target.

One or more embodiments of the invention enable a durable target apparatus and method of on target visual display. In various embodiments of the invention pie shaped target sectors surround a bull s eye sector. However target sectors if seen on the face of the target at all may form a circle octagon square rectangle or any other geometric shape. Each sector may be associated with one or more illuminated display segments. The display segments are visible at a distance enabling shooters to determine the sector hit and to adjust a next shot without looking away from the target thereby improving shooter proficiency. Various training mode are available. Methods for determining the target sector impacted and algorithms for asserting the correct display segment s are described. By utilizing on target display segments embodiments of the invention enable a shooter to ascertain the accuracy of the shot without looking away from the sights on the firearm or from the target.

The target apparatus of the invention is configured to be durable. In a preferred embodiment the target apparatus is impenetrable to bullets of any caliber by providing a target plate thick and strong enough to deny passage of a bullet through the apparatus. Thus the apparatus does not have to be replaced as paper targets do therein lowering long term shooting costs. A target surface durable enough to withstand repeated shot impacts for example a surface with a Brinell hardness of about 400 or higher may also be supported with a dampening material such as polyurethane or Styrofoam coupled to the reverse side of the target surface to slow down the impact shock wave and allow iterative scanning by sensors designed to locate the impact of the shot on the target.

One or more embodiments of the invention provide on target display segments to enable shooters to determine the approximate location of a hit on the target quickly. While display segments are described herein as display lights one or more embodiments may use alternative methods of indicating the target sector that was hit by the shot. For example the color of the target sector itself might be changed. Any other method of indicating the impacted sector known in the art and visible downrange by the shooter is within the scope of the invention. In preferred embodiments the display segments are display lights that are within the shooter s field of view as the shooter aims at the target therein providing immediate feedback as to the accuracy of the shot. In one or more embodiments of the invention several pie shaped wedges or target sectors surround a bull s eye at the center of the target. Display segments may be located on or near the target sectors and in some embodiments may be located in or near the bull s eye itself placing the feedback clearly within the shooter s field of view and clearly visible from an appropriate distance. In addition use of on target display segments enables embodiments of the invention to indicate the approximate location of the hit on the target without requiring the shooter to look away from the sights of the firearm or away from the target itself allowing the shooter to set up the next shot without changing stance which may be an improvement over some prior targets. This is particularly helpful for training when shooting targets at long distances where one cannot see an impact location of the bullet for example on a conventional paper target.

Various embodiments of the invention may be computerized. Computerized embodiments may utilize a simple impact location algorithm to determine the area of the impact on the target by identifying the first impact sensor to register an impact. The hit is then visually represented on target with visual indicators such as illuminated lights in one or more embodiments of the invention. The present invention avoids the need for complex triangulation algorithms or arbitration schemes since the impact sensors may be scanned in order at high rates so that only one impact sensor is designated as the impact associated sensor. In addition multiple modes of operation or games may be played using the invention that require a display to show the approximate hit location such as high low left right timing or other prompts and hit representations. These various modes of operation or games support varied training scenarios intended to improve the proficiency of the shooter. Other modes may be provided for entertainment only. Multiple embodiments of the invention may be networked together to provide shooting practice at a sequence of targets where targets at different locations prompt the shooter one after the other. In addition targets of various embodiments may be mounted on tracks to provide running boar or moving targets for more challenging shooting practice. Other embodiments may provide a replaceable and variable sized bull s eye target sector to be substituted into the apparatus to challenge shooters of various skill levels.

Target sectors of the invention may be individual physical components or may be demarcations on the target surface. The target sectors should be at least strong enough to stop a bullet of the desired energy level while allowing the sensors to determine the location of the impact force from the bullet. Target sectors may also be virtual in various embodiments such that the sectors may be painted on or otherwise indicated the surface without being individual physical components. In other embodiments the target sectors may not be visually displayed at all. For example the entire target surface may be implemented as a solid circle with no sector line indicators in one or more of the triangulation embodiments though the controller may still associate the approximate impact location with a display segment and illuminate the segment if desired. As long as the desired number of display segments are located in association with the desired number of target sectors whether virtual or physical and the bull s eye various embodiments of the invention will be capable of displaying visual indications of the hit location on the target apparatus.

In one or more embodiments the bull s eye target sector may be implemented as a detachable plug shaped circular sector. In these embodiments the bull s eye sector may be interchangeable with various sized circular sectors to allow for the desired training. In embodiments with a circular bull s eye sector that is implemented as an interchangeable plug that may be inserted into the bull s eye instead of an opening the outer display segments may all be programmed to flash on and off a configurable number of times or for a given number of seconds to indicate a bull s eye impact. Any other method of indirectly indicating a bull s eye impact using illuminated on target display segments is in keeping with the spirit of the invention. This type of shot location display is but one mode of operation or game that may be played with embodiments of the invention as discussed further below.

In one or more embodiments the target apparatus includes sensors on or near the target that are configured to detect the impact of a bullet on the target and send one or more signals to a controller. In some embodiments sensors may be aligned in sectors around the bull s eye of the target apparatus. Shot impact may be determined by feedback from the sensors associated with each target sector and in one embodiment the controller may associate the first sensor signal detected with the target sector location of the shot impact. Alternatively triangulation techniques may be utilized to support a smaller number of sensors. In either embodiment the controller then determines or calculates the location on the target of the bullet s impact. The controller may then illuminate one or more of the display segments so that the shooter can visually determine if the bullet impacted one of the target sectors or the bull s eye without looking away from the target apparatus. Hence the invention provides an advance over traditional systems where a shooter is required to set down their firearm and attempt to determine the accuracy of their shots through a spotting scope. The reason this is an advance in the art is for example if a right handed shooter jerks the trigger during a shot the bullet may strike the left portion of the target say at the nine o clock position. Using the target apparatus of one or more embodiments of the invention the target apparatus will illuminate the display segment associated with the leftmost target sector. The shooter may then make appropriate adjustments without moving his or her eye hand or stance. Thus shooters using the target of the invention may improve faster and more effectively because the invention provides immediate feedback without requiring the shooter to look away from the sights on the firearm or away from the target itself. After a configurable amount of time the display segment associated with the shot impact is illuminated and then turned off. In one or more embodiments of the invention the time may be set to be longer than the time a shooter requires to recover from the recoil of the shot.

Display segments may be implemented with light emitting diodes for example. In one or more embodiments the display segments may be covered with a bulletproof component. Display segments may also include a recessed area for example to protect the light component from direct impact from the bullet or projectile. In one or more embodiments the recessed area may project light for example from a lateral direction that reflects off of angled metal for example that is directed towards the shooter. In one or more embodiments of the invention display segments may be placed on an outer perimeter near each of the target sectors. Any number of target sectors may be used.

Embodiments of the invention allow for other modes of training besides shot location feedback as previously described. For example two target sectors or two sets of grouped target sectors may be utilized to train for left right training or high low training to indicate which half of the target a shot strikes. This enables a shooter to improve vertical and horizontal control independently for example. For example if a shot is high and the outside bull s eye but within a distance equal to or less than the radius of the bull s eye of a vertical line bisecting the bull s eye then the bull s eye display segment may be asserted to inform the shooter that the left right control was good for the shot. Alternatively for high low training if a bullet impact occurs to the left of the bull s eye but within a radius equal to or less than the bull s eye of a horizontal line bisecting the bull s eye then the bull s eye display segment may be asserted for example illuminated to inform the shooter that the high low control was good for the shot even though the shot has not impacted the bull s eye itself. Other embodiments may utilize more sectors for example twelve to allow for radial reckoning e.g. shot at the 2 o clock position. Any number of sectors greater than one may be utilized to indicate a general shot location to the shooter in keeping with the spirit of the invention. Any number of target sectors may be grouped together to allow for multiple bottom sectors and multiple top sectors to act in conjunction respectively for high low practice. In this manner the controller can flash all of the bottom display segments if the shot is low or all of the top display segments if the shot is high i.e. above the bull s eye for example. This type of practice may be utilized for improving one s hold e.g. vertical control to ensure that the shots are at the correct height on the target. Left right practice may be utilized to improve one s horizontal control and trigger control for example. When a shooter misses the bull s eye and strikes one of the target sectors the controller may activate one or more display segments that are near the target sector that was struck. If the shooter strikes the bull s eye the controller may activate another light in response that displays light in the center of the target for example. Other modes or games such as timed mode may be implemented by asserting the display segments in order clockwise for example around the apparatus to indicate the amount of time left for the shot to be counted as part of the scoring for the game. For example if the shot occurs within the time period then the shot counts and if the shot occurs after the time period then it counts as a miss. The time period is configurable so that each display segment is asserted for T N where T is the time period and N is the number of display segments surrounding the target sectors.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the controller illuminates lights to prompt the shooter to participate in one of the interactive modes or games. For example the controller may activate lights sequentially to prompt the shooter to shoot in response to the activated lights or select the desired mode or game. For example embodiments of the invention that have timed out as not having been shot at for a configurable period may prompt the user with series of lights that indicate the specific game code to be played. If the shooter shoots a shot on target during this prompt then that game begins. At the end of the game the target presents the results of the game to the shooter by illuminating the lights. Embodiments of the invention may utilize any number of targets illuminated for example in a sequence to implement interactive games.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the controller illuminates a varying number of lights associated with each target sector depending upon the distance of the point of impact from the bull s eye. For example if a shooter strikes the uppermost target sector and misses the bull s eye by a short distance the controller illuminates one light near the uppermost sector in response. If the shooter misses the bull s eye by a somewhat greater distance the controller illuminates two lights near the uppermost sector in response and so forth. Thus a target apparatus can display a high level of gradations by employing a larger number of lights for each target sector. Alternatively when a bullet strikes the target sector closer to the bull s eye the higher number of lights may be shown.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the controller may blink the lights at a frequency that reflects the distance from the point of impact to the bull s eye. For example a bullet that strikes near the bull s eye may cause the controller blink a light at a high repetition rate while a bullet that missed the bull s eye at a greater distance may cause the controller to blink at a slower repetition rate. Alternatively when a bullet strikes a target sector closer to the bull s eye the lower repetition rate may be employed.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the controller may change the color of the light to reflect the distance of the shot to the bull s eye. For example a first colored light may be utilized to display a close miss with respect to the bull s eye e.g. green while another color may be utilized to indicate a shot further from the bull s eye e.g. red. Any other method of on target displaying visual indication of the angular and quantitative distance of a shot from the bull s eye is in keeping with the spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention may utilize analog circuitry instead of a digital controller. These embodiments may be utilized to lower costs for example in high production applications of non networked embodiments. Various embodiments may provide for two or more training modes or games that may be selected to help a shooter improve accuracy. Any durable target apparatus or method of use that visually indicates shot impact by illuminating display segments on target and within the field of view of the shooter when aiming at the target is in keeping with the spirit of the invention.

A durable target apparatus and method of on target visual display will now be described. In the following exemplary description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. It will be apparent however to an artisan of ordinary skill that the present invention may be practiced without incorporating all aspects of the specific details described herein. In other instances specific features quantities or measurements well known to those of ordinary skill in the art have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention. Readers should note that although examples of the invention are set forth herein the claims and the full scope of any equivalents are what define the metes and bounds of the invention.

The invention comprises a target apparatus for firearms that is durable portable and easy to use. Though target apparatus may be permanently installed in an indoor or outdoor shooting range it also may include carrying handle to provide any easy means to transport the apparatus to outdoor locations such as for a camping trip or around a ranch. Target apparatus may be powered by as little as three AAA batteries in one or more embodiments to increase its portability. Further target apparatus is preferred to be constructed from durable materials and therefore tolerant of transport and highly reusable. All these aspects of target apparatus improve upon the art to provide a user friendly firearm target for entertainment. However multiple operating modes or games of various embodiments of the invention also provide a training target so that any marksman may quickly improving shot accuracy even when using an unfamiliar weapon with the embodiments and methods described herein or otherwise anticipated by the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention quarter inch thick steel plating may be utilized to implement a durable housing configured to enable small caliber target practice. Alternatively half inch thick steel plating may be utilized to implement a durable housing for any pistol caliber. Due to the sensitivity of the impact sensors the thickness of the metal of target surface does not have to be tuned to the desired caliber to be used with the target apparatus hence the thickness of target surface may be chosen for cost purposes. Through use of a thick enough and or hard enough target surface and an optional dampener material mounted on the reverse side of target surface any caliber weapon may be supported by a single target apparatus. Thus the invention provides a target apparatus that does not require tuning for the caliber or energy of the bullets fired at target surface . In addition the rear portion of the target does not have to be etched or grooved to isolate the sensors as the first sensor to receive a signal is considered to be associated with the target sector impacted. Any other material or thickness may be utilized to construct the housing including aluminum or stainless steel for permanent outdoor installations for example to deter rusting as long as the housing is strong enough to prevent damage from the desired bullet energy utilized during target practice.

Alternatively target sectors may be virtual demarcated by physical boundaries on target surface with for example score marks or not. When virtual target sectors are employed target surface may be smooth and or flat depending on the embodiment employed. Smooth or flat target surfaces may be less expensive to produce providing a commercial advantage for such an embodiment. In the case of a smooth target with virtual sectors target surface may be constructed from a single piece of impact resistant material such as metal or bulletproof plastic.

Virtual sector embodiments work well with triangulation embodiments as triangulation methods do not require sensors associated with each sector so there is no operating requirement to provide physical target sectors or indicate a demarcation of target sectors for impact determination. Any triangulation method or a calculation to any reasonable accuracy level may be used to determine the impact location in such embodiments as one skilled in the art will recognize. For example by using the mounting positions of the sensors along with the time offsets to each sensor after the initial sensor impact detection the triangulated position of the impact can be computed. In typical configuration of use the shooter aims at the center of target sectors without regards to any demarcation lines on the target. In a virtual sector embodiment the physical sectors against which the hit will be detected may be mounted directly or indirectly on target surface . In one embodiment each target sensor may be mounted via a hinge on any edge of the target sector or indirectly via a shock absorbing material such as foam and or springs that allows each sector to receive the highest amount of impact from a shot for example.

Display segments surround the target sectors in one or more embodiments. In one or more exemplary embodiments as illustrated in display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector display segments and may be associated with target sector and bull s eye display segment may be associated with bull s eye target sector . Any position shape grouping or clustering of the display segments and target sectors is in keeping with the spirit of the invention so long as the display segments are utilized to show general shot placement on target. Other embodiments utilize more or less display segments per target sector.

In one or more embodiments of the invention that employ triangulation to determine shot placement sensors and typically on the rear side of target surface and shown figuratively here as if seen through target sectors and respectively and target sectors may be coupled in a manner to enable an acoustic or shock wave to radiate from the point of impact on target sectors to sensors and . For example target sectors and bull s eye target sector and sensors and may be coupled or bonded to a common target surface . The bonding may be accomplished by a variety of techniques including welding fastening gluing taping or using any other attachment technique. Any form of bonding or other coupling that allows an acoustic or shock wave to travel from the point of impact to the sensors and is in keeping with the spirit of this invention. In another embodiment target sectors and bull s eye target sector may be directly coupled with each other and to the sensors and without use of a common target surface. Alternatively for virtual embodiments a single target surface may be employed without use of physically distinct target sectors. As long as the target surface and or target sectors are constructed from material that is strong enough to receive energy levels of the desired projectile target apparatus will remain undamaged after each shot impact.

In one or more embodiments of the invention for example non triangulation embodiments target sectors may be associated with or coupled directly or indirectly to associated sensors. These embodiments may for example employ any type of impact sensor. One type of impact sensor that may be utilized includes a ball bearing backed by a spring that makes contact with two leads when the associated sector is directed rearward. Alternatively a piezoelectric sensor may be utilized that produces a voltage when impacted for example. For example as long as the particular impact sensor is capable of asserting an associated display segment for a configurable amount of time or sending a signal to controller it may be utilized. In one or more embodiments of the invention the target sectors coupled with the sensors may be in the form of pixels. In one or more embodiments of the invention the target sectors and sensors employ touch screen technologies such as but not limited to resistive touch screens surface acoustic wave touch screens capacitive touch screens infrared touch screens infrared touch screens strain gauge touch screens optical imaging touch screens dispersive signal technology touch screen acoustic pulse recognition touch screens frustrated total internal reflection touch screen and diffused laser imaging touch screens. With touch screen technology based sensors any protective covering may be utilized to protect the underlying sensors and display segments. For example bulletproof material may be utilized to cover the sensor or display segment so long as the shot may still be detected on impact at target apparatus .

Regardless of the embodiment utilized the target sectors may additionally have concentric circles oval shaped patterns or any other type of demarcation associated with them. In these embodiments the number of display segments asserted after the initial assertion indicating the sector of the hit for example may indicate the quantitative distance from the bull s eye. For example with each target sector in the triangulation embodiments a distance from the center is calculated which may be translated into a ring i.e. a score that indicates how close to the bull s eye the shot has hit. For a bull s eye the score is traditionally a 10. For a shot slightly away from the bull s eye a 9 is traditionally awarded. A shot near the outer edge of the target sectors would traditionally be awarded a 7. In the triangulation embodiments the distances that are further away from the bull s eye continue from 6 down to 0 for example. Other target shapes besides rings may be utilized in embodiments of the invention such as oval shapes or any other geometric shape for example. For non triangulation embodiments with associated multiple sensors per target sector the relative distance between the bull s eye and outer edge of the target can be calculated by the relative force of impact divided between the innermost and outermost sensor for example or by observing the time delay of the shockwave from the impact at the innermost and outmost sensors associated with a target sector for example.

In one or more embodiments of the invention sensors and are coupled to controller . Display segments and bull s eye display segment are also coupled to controller . In operation of one or more embodiments of the invention a shooter fires firearm to cause projectile to strike target apparatus . If the shot is not accurately delivered by the shooter i.e. does not impact bull s eye target sector then projectile may hit target sector for example as the result of trigger jerk. As projectile strikes target sector the projectile applies a stress to the surface of target sector which in turn locally deforms target sector and creates an acoustic or shock wave. The shock or acoustic wave radiates outward from the point of impact through target sector and through target surface . Sensors and continuously monitor the deformation of target surface . When the leading edge of the acoustic wave radiates to sensors and sensors and generate electric signals in response to the sounds at the point of impact or localized deformation of target surface . These signals are then transmitted to controller . In one or more embodiments of the invention sensors may be implemented as impact sensors or microphones. In other embodiments impact sensors may be directly coupled to each sector and the bull s eye for example.

In triangulation embodiments controller may determine the relative time difference among the electric signals received from sensors and convert the relative time differences to the relative distance differences based on the speed of the acoustic wave in the medium of target surface . Using any known triangulation algorithm controller may calculate the position of the impact on target surface . Controller may also determine if the bull s eye has been hit or which target sector has been struck by calculating the polar coordinate angle and distance of the point of impact from the center of bull s eye as the center of the polar coordinate system. The polar coordinate distance determines the distance of the point of impact to the center of the bull s eye and if within the perimeter of the bull s eye the shot registers as a hit on the bull s eye. If the shot distance is further than the radius of the bull s eye away from the center then the shot may be associated with the particular sector residing at the calculated angle.

For non triangulation embodiments controller may determine which sensor has been asserted and illuminate the corresponding display segment. For example as target sector receives an impact from projectile one or more of display segments and or may be illuminated for a time. The time for illuminating target sector for example may be programmed into controller in the form of computer coded instructions for example as one skilled in the art will appreciate. In analog non triangulation embodiments controller may be replaced by individual circuits that assert associated display segments with for example time periods set by desired potentiometer or resistance capacitive combinations for example as one skilled in the art will appreciate. By iterating through the sensors associated with each target sector in rapid fashion the first sensor to register an impact may be considered to be associated with the target sector of impact. The corresponding display segment may then be illuminated for example. The shock wave may be slowed by coupling or spraying a dampener material to the reverse side of target surface such as polyurethane for example. A one quarter inch thick layer of dampener material or any other thickness that slows the impact s shockwave to be slow enough so that controller may iteratively query enough sensors to determine which sensor was asserted first may be preferred. Any type or thickness of dampener that allows an approximate impact location on target surface to be determined by whatever means or method described herein or known in the art is in keeping with the spirit of the invention.

Digital embodiments for example may employ a central processor with computer readable memory as controller . The processor may be programmed with computer readable instructions to assert the appropriate display segments associated with the target sector that has been struck. When target sector is struck for example controller may assert display segments and or . For example if the distance from the center of the bull s eye is below a predetermined first threshold both display segment and display segment may be illuminated. If the distance is above the first pre determined threshold but below a second pre determined threshold only display segment is illuminated. If the distance is above the second pre determined level then only display segment is illuminated. Display segment and or display segment are illuminated for a preset time and then are de energized in anticipation of the next shot. Any other method of displaying visual indication of the angular and quantitative distance of a shot from the bull s eye is in keeping with the spirit of the invention. For example a single display segment associated with each sector may also be used or differing colors for multiple display segments associated with a sector may be asserted based on the distance away from the bull s eye that the shot struck.

In the event that projectile strikes bull s eye target sector and controller determines that the distance of the point of impact from the center of the bull s eye is at or below a predetermined bull s eye threshold bull s eye display segment may be asserted. Bull s eye display segment may be located anywhere within the shooter s field of view including directly in the center of the target or for example flashing any combination or all display segments for example. In embodiments that implement bull s eye target sector as an opening in the target bull s eye display segment may be located in the center of the target. For embodiments that utilize a single target surface e.g. a triangulation embodiment or an embodiment that utilizes for example a circular sector for bull s eye target sector instead of an opening any combination of the outer display segments may be utilized to indicate a bullet has hit bull s eye target sector .

In one or more embodiments target apparatus may include target sectors formed of any material that can absorb the kinetic energy of the desired projectile without causing damage to the target sector. For example bulletproof material such as polycarbonate thermoplastic or metal may be used and may be of a desired thickness based on the kinetic energy of the type of bullet that is to be used in association with target apparatus . Target sectors can be arranged in the form of pie shaped geometric sectors concentric circles tiled rectangular sectors or as any other shape.

In an embodiment of the invention the display segments may be implemented as discrete light sources such as incandescent bulbs light emitting diodes LEDs gas discharge lamps high intensity discharge lamps and backlit Liquid Crystal Devices. In another embodiment of the invention the display segments may also be devices that do not illuminate light but rather change the reflective light polarization or color properties of the display segment. In mechanical embodiments of the invention a mechanical display segment may be utilized to extend a flag or move an object of a particular color into view to represent a hit in the associated sector for example. Alternatively or in combination an acoustic signal from controller may be transmitted for example to indicate the sector or bull s eye location of the shot. In wireless embodiments of the invention controller may send a wireless signal to a receiver associated with shooter for example into an FM receiver or computing device that is capable of relaying the audio description of the shot to the shooter. For example a message of shot at three o clock at the 8 ring may be transmitted to a computing device that drives the audio into headphones ear protectors worn by shooter . Display segments may be covered by any type of bulletproof glass for example or may be formed from openings that are indirectly lit from the side so as not to incur damage when directly hit. Any method of protecting display segments known in the art may be utilized in keeping with the spirit of the invention.

Any type of training mode or game may be implemented utilizing the display segments of embodiments of the invention. For example a game that includes asserting the display segments clockwise around the target sectors in one second intervals wherein the shot must be taken by the time it takes for all display segments to assert may be implemented by inserting program code into controller . In addition games may be played in dark conditions with iron sights or with red dot sights for example wherein the bull s eye is asserted in one color and wherein the shooter undertakes a shot that is displayed in a different color in the bull s eye for a hit or wherein any combination of display segments are asserted or flashed for example for a miss or hit of the bull s eye. Games or modes may be selected over a network card via a switch associated with the controller such as a DIP switch or any other type of switch or method detectable by the controller as one skilled in the art will recognize.

In one or more embodiments of the invention display segments may be placed on an outer perimeter near each of the target sectors. Any number of target sectors may be utilized. For example two sectors may be utilized to train for left right training or high low training to indicate which half of the target a shot strikes in various games modes of operation or methods of using the invention. These games may enable a shooter to improve vertical and horizontal control independently. For example if a shot is high and outside bull s eye target sector but within a distance equal to or less than the radius of bull s eye target sector of a vertical line bisecting the bull s eye then the bull s eye display segment may be asserted to inform shooter that the left right control was good for the shot. Alternatively for high low training if a bullet impact occurs to the left of bull s eye target sector but within a radius equal to or less than the bull s eye of a horizontal line bisecting the bull s eye then the bull s eye display segment may be asserted to inform short that the high low control was good for the shot even though the shot has not impacted the bull s eye itself. In various embodiments the timing of the assertion and de assertion of display segments are preferred to be rapid enough to support various types of firearms as well as various types of training modes. In preferred embodiments when a display segment is assert it is anticipated that the assertion will occur within about a second will provide sufficiently immediate feedback to the shooter to allow a shooter to improve. Embodiments with variable response times for the assertion and de assertion of display segments are within the scope of the invention so long as such times support shooter enjoyment and or training using the target apparatus.

Other embodiments of the invention may use more sectors for example twelve to allow for radial reckoning e.g. a hit at the two o clock position. Any number of sectors greater than one may be utilized to indicate a sector shot location to the shooter in keeping with the spirit of the invention. Any number of target sectors may be grouped together to allow for multiple bottom sectors and multiple top sectors to act in conjunction respectively for high low practice. In this manner the controller can flash all of the bottom display segments if the shot is low or all of the top display segments if the shot is high i.e. above the bull s eye for example. This type of practice may be utilized for improving one s hold e.g. vertical control to ensure that the shots are at the correct height on the target. Left right practice may be utilized to improve one s horizontal control and trigger control for example. When a shooter misses the bull s eye and strikes one of the target sectors the controller activates one or more display segments that are near the target sector that was struck. If the shooter strikes the bull s eye the controller activates another light in response that displays light in the center of the target for example.

In one or more embodiments of the invention display segments may be placed on an outer perimeter near each of the target sectors. Any number of target sectors may be utilized. For example two sectors may be utilized to train for left right training or high low training to indicate which half of the target a shot strikes. This enables a shooter to improve vertical and horizontal control independently for example. For example if a shot is high and outside bull s eye target sector but within a distance equal to or less than the radius of bull s eye target sector of a vertical line bisecting the bull s eye then the bull s eye display segment may be asserted to inform shooter that the left right control was good for the shot. Alternatively for high low training if a bullet impact occurs to the left of bull s eye target sector but within a radius equal to or less than the bull s eye of a horizontal line bisecting the bull s eye then the bull s eye display segment may be asserted to inform short that the high low control was good for the shot even though the shot has not impacted the bull s eye itself.

Other embodiments of the invention may use a greater number of target sectors for example twelve to allow for radial or o clock reckoning e.g. hit at the two o clock position. It is in keeping with the spirit of the invention that any number of target sectors greater than one may be used to indicate what sector location received an impact. Any number of target sectors may also be grouped together to allow for multiple bottom sectors and multiple top sectors to act in conjunction respectively for high low practice. In this manner the controller may flash all of the bottom display segments if the shot is low or all of the top display segments if the shot is high i.e. above the bull s eye for example. This type of display enables practice to improve one s hold e.g. vertical control to ensure that the shots are at the correct height on the target without moving one s eye from the target which is an improvement over targets of the prior art. The invention also better supports left right practice that may improve one s horizontal control and trigger control for example. When a shooter misses the bull s eye and strikes one of the target sectors controller may activate one or more display segments that are nearest the target sector that was struck. If the shooter strikes bull s eye target sector controller may activate a display segment that light the center of the target for example.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the controller illuminates a varying number of lights associated with each target sector depending upon the distance of the point of impact from the bull s eye. For example if a shooter strikes the uppermost target sector and misses the bull s eye by a short distance the controller illuminates one light near the uppermost sector in response. If the shooter misses the bull s eye by a somewhat greater distance the controller illuminates two lights near the uppermost sector in response and so forth. Thus a target apparatus can display a high level of gradations by employing a larger number of display segments for each target sector. Alternatively when a bullet strikes the target sector closer to the bull s eye the higher number of lights may be shown.

In embodiments such as that of each display segment may be located at some radial offset from and some distance beyond each target sector. In preferred embodiments display segment will be located on the surface of the target and within the field of view of the shooter as the shooter aims at the target. In one or more such embodiments display segments may be implemented as a light emitting diode LED or some similar display technology. Preferred embodiments may implement display segment as a red LED.

It should be noted that while virtual target sectors are shown as scored marks on target surface in such scoring is optional. As discussed above embodiments utilizing virtual target sectors that present a completely flat surface to the shooter are within the scope of the invention.

By mounting the embodiment shown in on a rail and moving the device for example left and right a moving target game may be played. Likewise multiple targets of the invention may be networked together and coupled to a computer for example to control asserting various display segments for example around the sides of the target to alert a shooter which particular target to shoot. These types of games allow a shooter to rapidly improve in real world situations with movement and shot selection that may also be timed. For example by configuring a computer to indicate various targets in random order and programming controller with given time in which to assert its display segments a game may be constructed where a shooter is given that amount of time to execute a shot at a particular target. In such a game the target may be programmed to flash all display segments a single color red for example to indicate that the shot was too late.

Bull s eye target sector may be made from a work hardened material such as milled steel in one or more embodiments of the invention. In a preferred embodiment bull s eye target sector might be expected to withstand 10 000 20 000 rounds if made from a steel alloy with Brinell hardness of about or higher. In virtual target embodiments with a bull s eye target sector that does not use circular opening or bull s eye target sector and opening the size of the bull s eye target sector not shown may be computed by controller as half the distance to each nearest sensor and approximately a circle with slight contracts at angles that intersect the position of a sensor.

In one or more embodiments when a projectile enters the bull s eye opening and impacts sensor plate electrical wires coupling bull s eye sensor on the back of sensor plate transmits a signal to controller . Wires are also used to couple controller electronically to one or more display segments . The wires may be used to couple controller to the respective components in one or more embodiments of the invention. Any type of wire may be utilized as long as it is capable of enabling the proper amount of current flow based on the type of sensors and display segments utilized.

Flat base may be used to allow for mounting the target on a track rail or other means known in the art for a moving target embodiment or to an adjustable base for a variety of shooting height i.e. for use by shooters in a prone kneeling or standing positions in one or more embodiments of the invention.

A bullet may travel through the opening of bull s eye target sector in some embodiments however other embodiments may instead provide bull s eye target sector as mounted flush or flat with the bull s eye opening . Bull s eye target sector may be flush with the other target sectors be raised above the surface of the target or may be depressed below the target surface. In one or more embodiments a bullet impacting bull s eye opening may cause the invention to illuminate all display segments in one or more modes such as flashing or asserted all display segments at once for example instead of lighting light as shown in .

The following table provides pseudocode understood by those in those of ordinary skill in the programming arts that represent a possible computer program to implement some of the games that may be played with embodiments of the invention. This pseudocode is only an example any method of programming the games described herein is contemplated by various embodiments of the invention.

Various embodiments of the invention may use a non triangulation approach to detecting the impact of a bullet on the target. Such embodiments may have sensors such as sensor coupled with the reverse side of the target surface. In such embodiments the first sensor to receive a signal may be used to decide the approximate location of an impact. Detection of impact may be with software scanning of strike sensors and or hardware circuitry latching any and all strikes for processor to read via software. By iterating through all I O ports preferably at approximately 400 000 per second no complex arbitration circuitry will be required. The first sensor activated may be used to declare which sector received the impact. For high low practice if that sensor happens to be at nine o clock or at three o clock or the impact is sensed first by bull s eye target sector s sensor then both outer display segments at nine and three o clock for example may be asserted green. This may indicates that the shot was placed at the correct vertical offset on the target. If any of the other sensors is the first to register the shot impact then all of the upper or lower sensors may be asserted red to indicate a shot impact that was hi or low respectively. For left right practice if the first sensor to register an impact is at twelve o clock or six o clock or is sensed by the bull s eye sensor first then both upper and lower display segments at twelve and six o clock for example may be asserted green. If any of the other sensors is the first to register the shot impact then all of the left or right may be asserted red to indicate a shot impact that was left or right respectively. Alternatively controller may be commanded remotely for example to switch to standard sector based practice where the first sensor to register a shot impact is sensed by controller as it iterates through the I O ports and the corresponding sector display segment may be asserted for a configurable amount of time. In one or more embodiments of the invention a DIP switch may be utilized by controller to sense a desired time value that the display segments are to be asserted after a shot impact in other embodiments of the invention the time to assert a display segment may be stored in memory in controller or coupled with controller .

While the invention herein disclosed has been described by means of specific embodiments and applications thereof numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention set forth in the claims.

