---

title: Method and system for processing requisitions
abstract: A method and system for making a requisition for one or more items including providing a requisition module written as a service, using the requisition module to place one or more orders for one or more items, and monitoring the status of the one or more orders or the one or more items. When one or more orders is placed by a user of the module, an instant message or an email is provided to the user, wherein the instant message or email specifies the status of the one or more orders to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129331&OS=09129331&RS=09129331
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09129331
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081203
---
The present invention relates generally to methods and systems for providing and receiving information about requisitions. More particularly the present invention relates to monitoring the status of requisitions.

Procurement is the acquisition of goods and or services at the best possible total cost of ownership in the right quantity and quality at the right time in the right place and from the right source for the direct benefit or use of corporations or individuals generally via a contract. Simple procurement may involve nothing more than repeat purchasing. Complex procurement could involve finding long term partners that might fundamentally commit one organization to another. Almost all purchasing decisions include factors like delivery and handling marginal benefit and price fluctuations. Procurement generally involves making buying decisions under conditions of scarcity. If good data are available it is good practice to make use of economic analysis methods such as cost benefit analysis or cost utility analysis.

An important distinction is made between analysis without risk and those with risk. Where risk is involved either in the costs or the benefits the concept of expected value may be employed. Based on the consumption purposes of the acquired goods and services procurement activities are often split into two distinct categories. The first category being direct production related procurement and the second being indirect non production related procurement.

Direct procurement occurs in manufacturing settings only. It encompasses all items that are part of finished products such as raw material components and parts. Direct procurement which is the focus in supply chain management directly affects the production process of manufacturing firms. In contrast indirect procurement activities concern operating resources that a company purchases to enable its operations. It comprises a wide variety of goods and services from standardized low value items like office supplies and machine lubricants to complex and costly products and services like heavy equipment and consulting services.

Procurement systems are well known. A buyer searches a catalog or a catalog database locates a material of interest and places an order also sometimes referred to as a requisition. A supplier then fulfills the order. However special orders greatly complicate and slow down the entire procurement process as well as greatly increase procurement expense. In practice a buyer who cannot find an item located in a catalog must fill out a special requisition also known as a special order request. However no order is even placed until a potential supplier and related cost and delivery information is provided to the buyer for consideration.

The order or requisition is then sent to a procurement fulfillment organization. A fulfillment specialist reviews the special requisition and manually determines if there are any potential suppliers that can fulfill the special requisition. Potential suppliers are then contacted and they respond accordingly. Each of the suppliers has their own way of describing the items it carries. Thus the fulfillment specialist must manually review each supplier proposal and determine which ones appear to be most favorable to the buyer.

Many current web based procurement requisition systems utilize time consuming processes to procure and monitor the requisition status of items ordered. The systems are no different for the person ordering frequently than for the person ordering only occasionally. In current systems requestors or purchasers must use a series of user interface screens to search and purchase items through a series of complex business process screens to submit the requisition for fulfillment. Moreover the purchaser may only be notified at certain steps in the procurement process but not for others. Furthermore purchasers must login to the procurement application to monitor requisition status. There remains a need to provide a simplified process for the purchasers who frequently purchase the same items.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method for making a requisition for one or more items is provided the method including providing a requisition module written as a service using the requisition module to place one or more orders for one or more items and monitoring the status of the one or more orders or the one or more items.

In a further aspect of the method wherein the one or more orders is placed by a user of the module the method includes providing an instant message or an email to the user wherein the instant message or email specifies the status of the one or more orders to the user. The method includes providing the status of each of the one or more items in the one or more orders.

In another aspect of the method the status of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items includes the position of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items wherein the position ranges from the point at the onset of placing of the one or more orders to the receipt of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items.

In yet another aspect the method provides the user with the option to specify at which position or positions of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items the user will receive an instant message or email. Examples of positions include but are not limited to ordered back ordered at supplier preparation in billing in warehouse in shipping and or out for delivery.

In still a further aspect of the method an email message is sent to the user if the user is not logged in to an instant messaging facility. The user may specify the number of attempts to send an instant message before an email is sent.

In one more aspect of the method the requisition module uses simple object access protocol SOAP to provide a web service.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system for making a requisition for one or more items is provided wherein the system includes a requisition module wherein the requisition module is written as a service and an instant messaging email module linked to the requisition module wherein the requisition module creates a requisition and wherein the instant messaging email module provides the status of the requisition.

In a further aspect the system includes a procurement application an application database and a configuration database wherein the configuration database creates a configuration table comprising a user s specifications for receiving a status of a requisition. The user s specifications can include status codes for needed status notifications instant messaging addresses email addresses the number of times to attempt instant messaging a request to send email upon an instant message error or upon failed instant messaging attempts a request to send a URL to view the status and or the most recent status notification sent. The status codes can include but are not limited to ordered back ordered at supplier preparation in billing in warehouse in shipping and or out for delivery.

In another aspect of the system the requisition module uses simple object access protocol SOAP to provide a web service.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a computer program product encoded in a computer readable medium for instructing a system to make a requisition for one or more items is provided wherein the program code is configured to cause the computer to perform the method including providing a requisition module written as a service using the requisition module to place one or more orders for one or more items and monitoring the status of the one or more orders or the one or more items.

In a further aspect of the computer program product the one or more orders is placed by a user of the module and the program code is further configured to provide an instant message or an email to the user wherein the instant message or email specifies the status of the one or more orders to the user and or of the one or more items in the one or more orders.

In another aspect of the computer program product the status of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items specifies the position of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items wherein the position ranges from the point at the onset of placing of the one or more orders to the receipt of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items.

In yet another aspect of the computer program product the program code is further configured to provide the user with the option to specify at which position or positions of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items the user will receive an instant message or email. Examples of positions include but are not limited to ordered back ordered at supplier preparation in billing in warehouse in shipping and or out for delivery.

In still a further aspect of the computer program product the program code is further configured to send an email message if the user is not logged in to an instant messaging facility.

For the purposes of this patent description and claims the inventors intend that the following terms be understood to have the following definitions.

 Present invention means at least some embodiments of the present invention references to various feature s of the present invention throughout this document do not mean that all claimed embodiments or methods include the referenced feature s .

 SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of Web Services in computer networks. It relies on Extensible Markup Language XML as its message format and usually relies on other Application Layer protocols most notably Remote Procedure Call RPC and Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for message negotiation and transmission. SOAP forms the foundation layer of the web services protocol stack providing a basic messaging framework upon which abstract layers can be built. As an example of how SOAP procedures can be used a SOAP message could be sent to a web service enabled web site for example a house price database with the parameters needed for a search. The site will return an XML formatted document with the resulting data prices location features etc . As the data is returned in a standardized machine parsable format it may be integrated directly into a third party site.

 Web Service is a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. Web services are frequently just Web Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be accessed over a network such as the Internet and executed on a remote system hosting the requested services.

 Extensible Markup Language XML is a general purpose specification for creating custom markup languages. It is classified as an extensible language because it allows its users to define their own elements. Its primary purpose is to help information systems share structured data particularly via the Internet and it is used both to encode documents and to serialize data.

Enterprise resource planning ERP is an enterprise wide information system designed to coordinate all the resources information and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulfillment or billing. An ERP system supports most of the business system that maintains in a single database the data needed for a variety of business functions such as Manufacturing Supply Chain Management Financials Projects Human Resources and Customer Relationship Management. An ERP system is based on a common database and a modular software design. The common database can allow every department of a business to store and retrieve information in real time. The information should be reliable accessible and easily shared. The modular software design should mean a business can select the modules they need mix and match modules from different vendors and add new modules of their own to improve business performance. Ideally the data for the various business functions are integrated. In practice the ERP system may comprise a set of discrete applications each maintaining a discrete data store within one physical database.

Embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for monitoring and receiving status notifications of requisitions.

Reference is made to which shows a system carrying out the procurement of one or more orders. A requester is shown at initiating or requesting an order. The order is created at the requisition creation system RCS using procurement application . Application can be an enterprise resource planning ERP system which coordinates all the resources information and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulfillment or billing. RCS is a web service component which provides the ability to create multiple requisitions without a series of user interfaces. RCS provides a system that allows users to specify details regarding the items being order including but not limited to catalog identification part numbers quantity requestor initiator web identification and accounting details. Access to RCS may be granted using simple object access protocol or SOAP.

RCS is linked to an application database such as for example the ORACLE database or the IBM DB2 database. The order is received by application database and a database administrator creates a configuration database which creates a configuration database table CDT . Procurement application based on the properties of the order placed by requestor populates CDT which lists the requisition number and status notification needed for each requisition. Table 1 below is an example of a CDT.

Once the configuration table is created RCS updates the information in the table. RCS is linked to an Instant Messaging and Email System IMES . Typically a configuration table such as that set forth in Table 1 includes the requisition identification which is the number given to the order or items in an order. The second column is the notification status column which lists the number and type of status notifications requested by the initiator. For example for R the initiator has requested status updates at four stages of the process. Status request S may represent the location at the time of placing the order e.g. in the warehouse S may represent the status after it moves from the warehouse retrieved from the warehouse S may represent in shipping and S may represent item has been sent. For R S could mean the same as S for R or could mean something else e.g. in shipping. The status request may be defined by the requester or by the provider although it is preferable to the requester that the requester defines and controls when and how many notifications are necessary. It is possible that the requester not require any status notifications or it is possible that the requester requires a status notification for every step or movement of the item in the process.

The next column of the configuration table provides the instant messaging and email address of the requester. The requester is first contacted by instant messaging and column four of the configuration table lists the number of times that the requester requests attempts to instant message the requester. Column five lists whether or not the requester wants an email sent if an instant messaging error occurs a Y is inserted for Yes and an N is inserted for No. Column six lists whether or not the requester wants a URL sent to view the status a Y is inserted for Yes and an N is inserted for No. Column seven lists the identification of the last status notification that was sent. For R the last notification sent was S which means that three more status notifications will be sent to the requestor when the status changes. For R and R both requisitions only requested one status notification i.e. S. Column states that the S notification has been sent for both R and R. Accordingly the rows for R and R may be removed from the configuration table since the required status notifications have been sent and are complete.

In accordance with the embodiments herein the users requestors can have status reports instantly via instant messaging without having to login to the application to monitor requisition status when the requisition is in progress. Moreover the requisition can be created without having to login to the procurement application. If the user requestor s instant messaging is not working or the user is not logged in an email may be sent to the user as an alternate notification method. When the status is instant messaged to the user it provides an application URL upon which the user can click and go to the specific screen in the procurement application to view requisition details.

The IMES periodically reads the configuration database and procurement application database tables. For each of the requisition identification numbers listed in the CDT based on its configuration a status instant message or email is sent to the email id specified for a given requisition. The instant message or email is sent for all the status notifications requested and configured in the Status Notification Needed column. When the requisition reaches its final status the IMES sends an instant message email for the last status and removes the row from the CDT for a given requisition. The IMES keeps track of the last status notification that was sent Last IM Status column. The system herein is fully applicable to hand held devices such as BLACKBERRY devices cell phones personal digital assistants and other types of devices machines that support email communication.

Reference is made to which shows an embodiment of a method for sending a status notification once an order has been approved for fulfillment. At step the user inputs order information to the RCS. At step the RCS invokes a web service to create a requisition. The RCS in conjunction with an application data base creates the requisition and starts the approval process at step . Examples of items ordered through the process include anything and everything that could be ordered electronically such as but not limited to office supplies computers manufacturing materials chemicals and building materials.

The approval process may require determining whether the requester is authorized to receive certain items such as specialty chemicals or certain materials considered hazardous. At step the system processes the approvals. At step the system queries whether the approvals are complete. It the answer is no the process loops back up to step until all approvals are complete. Once the approvals are complete the order is sent to an enterprise resource planning ERP system at step . The ERP system coordinates all the resources information and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulfillment or billing.

At step the system queries whether the user is configured for instant message order submission status. If the answer is yes the system queries at step whether the user is logged into an instant messaging facility. If the answer is yes the user is notified at step . If the answer is no at step the system waits and retries to send the text message. The number of times to retry will be based on the information in the configuration table. In this example the number of tries will be two. The system waits for a retry interval at step and an attempt is made at step . The system queries whether the user is logged into the instant messaging facility at step . If yes the user is notified at step . If the answer is no the system waits for a retry interval and then makes a second attempt to contact the user.

After two attempts to contact the user have been made the system queries at step whether the user was contacted by instant messaging. If the answer is no an email is sent to the user at step .

As stated above the user may request the status of the order at any point in the ordering process from the placement of the order to the receipt of the order. Reference is made to which shows an embodiment of a method for reporting an event in the order to shipment process. At step an ERP event occurs. An ERP event can include anything that occurs during the order to shipment process such as but not limited to checking inventory for the order retrieving the order from inventory approving the order packaging the order invoicing the order and shipping the order.

At step the system is notified of the occurrence of an ERP event. At step the system queries whether the user is configured for instant messaging of the ERP event status. If the answer is yes at step the system queries whether the user is logged into an instant messaging facility. If the answer is yes the user is notified of the ERP by an instant message at step . If the answer is no at step the system retries and waits at step and continues to wait and retry for the number of times specified in the configuration table. If any of the attempts are successful i.e. the user is logged into the facility at step the user is notified of the event at step .

After the system has performed the required amount of attempts at step the system queries whether the user was notified via an instant message. If the answer is no the user is sent an email to notify the user of the ERP event at step .

Embodiments herein may be implemented within or between one or more computer systems by executing computer readable program code stored on computer readable media. The computer readable media may include for example any number or mixture of fixed or removable media such as one or more fixed disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROMs or compact discs at either a single location or distributed over a network. The computer readable program code may include for example instructions embodied in software or firmware.

The computer readable program code may include various components such as program code code to display a user interface code to provide the requisition module written as a service code to provide placement of an order code to monitor the status of the one or more orders or the one or more items in an order code to provide an instant message or an email to the user of the system code to specify the status of the one or more orders to the user code to provide the position of the one or more orders code to provide the user with the option to specify at which position or positions of the one or more orders and or of the one or more items the user will receive an instant message or email and code to send an email message to the user if the user is not logged in to an instant messaging facility.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with preferred embodiments thereof it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that additions deletions modifications and substitutions not specifically described may be made without department from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

