---

title: Apparatuses, methods and systems for audio processing and transmission
abstract: This disclosure details the implementation of apparatuses, methods and systems for audio processing and transmission. Some implementations of the system are configured to provide a method for encoding an arbitrary number of audio source signals using only a small amount of (transmitted or stored) information, while facilitating high-quality audio playback at the decoder side. Some implementations may be configured to implement, a parametric model for retaining the essential information of each source signal (side information). After the side information is extracted, the remaining information for all source signals may be summed to create a reference signal from which noise information for the original source signals may be reconstructed. The reference signal and the side information form the new collection of information to be transmitted or stored for subsequent decoding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111525&OS=09111525&RS=09111525
owner: Foundation for Research and Technology—Hellas (FORTH) Institute of Computer Science (ICS)
number: 09111525
owner_city: Heraklion
owner_country: GR
publication_date: 20080930
---
This is a Non Provisional of prior Provisional application Ser. No. 61 028 786 filed Feb. 14 2008 entitled Apparatuses Methods and Systems for Audio Processing and Transmission to which priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 is claimed. The entire contents of this Provisional application are herein expressly incorporated by reference.

The elements for Audio Processing Transmission APT described herein are directed generally to apparatuses methods and systems for audio processing and transmission and more particularly to features that improve the efficiency of audio data transmission.

Multichannel audio has increased in popularity over stereophonic sound systems because it offers significant advantages to audio reproduction when compared to stereo sound e.g. 2 channel audio systems . The large number of channels gives to the listener the sensation of being surrounded by sound and immerses him with a realistic acoustic scene.

The following disclosure details various novel features and mechanisms for Audio Processing Transmission APT . An issue pertaining to the increased number of channels associated with multichannel audio is the demand for higher data rates facilitating modern storage and transmission activities. Some implementations of APT are configured to provide a method for encoding an arbitrary number of audio source signals using only a small amount of transmitted or stored information while facilitating high quality audio playback at the decoder side. Some implementations may be configured to implement a parametric model for retaining the essential information of each source signal side information . After the side information is extracted the remaining information for all source signals may be summed to create a new signal which can be referred to as the reference signal .

The reference signal and the side information form the new collection of information to be transmitted or stored. During decoding the side information for each source signal may be used by the APT in conjunction with a source signal model to approximate the source signals. The side information may also be used to process the reference signal to yield error signals characteristic to each source signal. The sum of the source signal approximations and error signals then yields the decoded source signal possibly with some coding error. Depending on the particular APT implementation the source signals may include monophonic audio signals such as various speech recordings instrument recordings e.g. spot recordings which are made during the recording of a performing ensemble or a variety of other audio signals. The source signals do not necessarily need to contain common information. After the decoding the APT may be configured to process these signals which in turn may be mixed creating a stereophonic or multichannel recording which can subsequently be rendered through a stereophonic or multichannel audio system respectively or directly rendered through headphones or loudspeakers e.g. in a teleconferencing system .

The APT s extraction of the side information may be based on applying a sinusoidal model to the original source signal and extraction of the spectral envelope e.g. by means of Linear Prediction Coefficients LPC from the sinusoidal error signal the signal which is obtained by subtracting the sinusoidal signal from the original source signal . The side information that is retained at each time segment includes the sinusoidal parameters the spectral envelopes and the corresponding power of the sinusoidal error signal. The remainder signals after extraction may then be added together in order to produce the reference signal.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

The following disclosure details various novel features and mechanisms for Audio Processing Transmission APT . Although the APT discussed herein may be configured to achieve a variety of applications for the purposes of illustrating various functionality associated with the APT aspects of the APT will be discussed below within the context of system implemented sinusoidal coding de coding of multiple monophonic audio signal processing and transmission. It should be noted however that APT features may be adapted to other data processing and or encoding applications may be applied to other forms of data e.g. video may employ other signal approximation models and or the like.

Aspects of the APT described herein may be configured to provide a method for encoding an arbitrary number of audio source signals using only a small amount of transmitted or stored information while facilitating high quality audio playback at the decoder side. Some implementations of the system may be configured with a parametric model that is used for retaining the essential information of each source signal side information . After the side information is extracted the remaining information for all source signals may be summed to create a new signal which can be referred to as the reference signal . The reference signal and the side information form the new collection of information to be transmitted or stored. During decoding the side information for each source signal may be used to process the reference signal and extract the decoded version of each of the initially available source signals possibly with some coding error .

The source signals may include a variety of audio signals including monophonic audio signals such as various speech recordings instrument recordings e.g. spot recordings which are made during the recording of a performing ensemble or a variety of other types of audio signals. There is no need for the source signals to contain common information. After the decoding the APT may be configured to process and or mix these signals creating a stereophonic or multichannel recording which may be subsequently rendered through a stereophonic or multichannel audio system respectively or directly rendered through headphones or loudspeakers e.g. in a teleconferencing system .

The APT extraction of the side information may in one implementation based on applying a sinusoidal model to the original source signal and extraction of the spectral envelope e.g. by means of Linear Prediction Coefficients LPC from the sinusoidal error signal the signal which is obtained by subtracting the sinusoidal signal from the original source signal . The side information retained at each time segment includes the sinusoidal parameters the spectral envelopes and the corresponding power of the sinusoidal error signal. The remainder signals after this procedure may then be added together in order to produce the reference signal.

The large number of channels in multi channel audio production provides a listener with the sensation of being surrounded by sound and immerses the listener with a realistic acoustic scene. However an increased number of channels corresponds with a demand for higher data rates with regard to data storage and data transmission purposes. Low bandwidth applications such as Internet streaming and wireless transmission remain demanding although some coding methods MPEG AAC Dolby AC 3 etc. achieve significant coding gains. However conventional coding methods for low bit rate applications generally result in significant audio quality degradation.

The APT facilitates reducing the transmission and storage requirements of spot microphone signals before the signals are processed or mixed into a final multichannel audio mix by exploiting the similarities between such signals associated with the same multi microphone recording. However it is to be understood that the APT may be adapted to facilitate multichannel audio applications and may also be utilized to compress for storage or transmission applications multiple monophonic audio signals which must then be reconstructed at the decoder side with high audio quality hereafter audio source signals . However the APT facilitates significant design flexibility and it is to be understood that multiple source signals do not have to necessarily be similar or to come from the same multi microphone recording.

The APT facilitates encoding decoding multiple monophonic audio signals before the signals are mixed into a stereo or multichannel audio recording. In an implementation the APT models each audio source signal with respect to a derived reference audio signal by employing a sinusoid plus noise model for each audio source signal and obtains both sinusoidal parameters harmonic part and short time spectral envelope of the sinusoidal noise the sinusoidal noise is the signal obtained by subtracting the sinusoidal signal from the original audio source signal as side information per audio source signal. The remainder signal of this procedure is termed as the residual signal and is in one view the sinusoidal error signal of the audio source signal after its spectral envelope has been removed e.g. using Linear Prediction Coefficient LPC analysis the residual signal is the LPC error signal of the sinusoidal error signal .

In an implementation the reference signal may be derived through the summation of all the residual signals of the corresponding audio source signals. This summation may be implemented as a weighted summation using different weights for the residual of each audio source signal. For re synthesis of each microphone signal the harmonic part that was fully encoded may be added to the noise part which is recreated by using the noise envelopes to filter corresponding time segments of the reference channel. The APT facilitates this noise transplantation based on the harmonic part which captures a significant part of each audio source signal even with a small number of sinusoids. Moreover the APT achieves significant improvement in audio quality through the use of the reference signal even if the reference signal contains information from other audio source signals as well.

In some implementations the APT achieves significant audio quality reproduction when the multiple audio source signals are rendered simultaneously possibly after a mixing process such as in a multichannel audio setup . The APT applies the sinusoidal model in the context of collectively encoding multiple monophonic audio sources for low bit rate high quality audio coding.

Additional features associated with the APT are illustrated by way of the following examples and or illustrations 

These signals can be configured as a wide variety of audio signals including separate instrument recordings from a studio recording of an ensemble spot signals from a concert hall performance recording speech signals recorded for teleconferencing or presentation purposes or other types of signals. In APT implementations configured for stereophonic and multichannel audio applications these signals are the signals before the mixing process is applied for obtaining the final multichannel audio recording. In other words these are the signals that are used by the audio engineers in order to produce the final multi channel recording under a mixing process. These are often recorded in multi track recordings by the audio recording industry and usually contain the separate recording of each instrument singing voice and or the like in an ensemble possibly with some interference from the other instruments in the background.

The importance of encoding and thus having available at the decoder the multiple audio source signals of a music recording instead of the final mixed multichannel audio recording is due to the offered interactivity. Interactive applications that are of immense interest for multichannel and immersive audio environments such as remote mixing of the multichannel recording and remote collaboration of geographically distributed musicians can be accomplished only when the APT decoder has access to the microphone signals and locally creates the final mix. For these applications the number of multiple audio channels to be encoded is much higher than in multichannel recordings and low bit rate encoding of each channel is critical. It is also important to mention other applications of the APT such as teleconferencing. In this case if the separate speech recordings of multiple speakers are available at the APT decoder side the APT may be configured to attenuate or even mute the recording of one or more speakers at each conference site decoder .

Each audio source signal my be segmented into a plurality of audio source signal segments at . In one implementation each segment may comprise a short time frame portion of the original audio source signal such as on the order of 20 milliseconds long. Segments may be mutually exclusive or may be allowed to overlap.

In an implementation of the APT the APT may be configured to apply a sinusoid plus noise model for brevity mentioned as SNM henceforth to address issues related to coding multiple audio source signals. Previous attempts to use SNM models resulted in degraded audio quality in the decoded signals. This is because to the sinusoidal error signal has been modeled using coarse methods which failed to retain the needed information for high quality audio re synthesis. Implementations of the APT are configured for applying SNM models to multiple audio source signals for achieving high degree of information reduction without a significant degree audible degradation in the recording. Implementations of the APT achieve high quality audio by processing the audio to render the signals simultaneously e.g. such as in a multichannel audio recording or a teleconferencing presentation containing multiple speakers.

Accordingly at the APT may model source signal segments such as by means of a sinusoidal model to extract sinusoidal parameters. Depending on the implementation the sinusoidal model employed may be based on a variety of models that achieve the functionality described herein. Each audio segment may for example be modeled as a summation of a few sinusoids each of different frequency phase and amplitude collectively mentioned as sinusoidal parameters . The sinusoidal parameters can be constant per audio segment but can even be time varying. Depending on the implementation the APT may implement any of a variety of sinusoidal models and can encode the audio source signals with high quality through either hardware software or a combination of hardware and software solutions.

The APT may subsequently calculate a difference between the sinusoidal signal and the original audio signal in each time segment effectively yielding a remainder signal termed the sinusoidal noise component or error signal . After the sinusoidal parameters for each audio segment of a particular audio source signal are estimated and the sinusoidal error signal is obtained the next step is to extract the spectral envelope of the sinusoidal error signal . The envelope extraction can be accomplished by a variety of different methods such as via Linear Prediction Coefficients LPC . In an implementation of the APT a spectral envelope model may be based on performing sub band analysis of the sinusoidal error signal and applying a different LPC model for each sub band. In an implementation the APT may be configured with Octave spaced sub bands. In implementations of the APT that use only one sub band a basic LPC model is achieved. After the spectral envelope of the sinusoidal error is obtained the envelope is extracted from the sinusoidal error e.g. by inverse filtering methods leaving a signal which is termed as the residual signal . Thus the residual signal may be determined as the signal that remains from the original audio source signal when the sinusoidal parameters are extracted followed by extraction of the spectral envelope parameters from the sinusoidal error signal.

For each audio source signal the APT is configured to obtain for each short time segment the sinusoidal parameters and the sinusoidal noise spectral envelope along with the corresponding power which form the side information per audio source signal. This information is time varying since these parameters differ from segment to segment. Based on the above description the residual signal for each audio source signal is obtained in short time segments. A determination may be made at as to whether the multiple residual signal segments should be processed separately or combined in a segment sum to yield one residual signal per each of the original audio source signals. If a segment sum is desired then the residual signal segments may be overlap added to yield a longer residual signal . In either case the residual signals and or residual signal segments for all audio source signals are summed to yield a reference signal. A determination may be made at as to whether or not to employ a weighted sum of residual signals in the creation of the reference signal. If a weighted sum is desired then a weighting schedule may be applied the schedule specifying the relative contributions of residual signals and or residual signal segments corresponding to each audio source signal to the final reference signal. In one implementation the weights themselves may be segment dependent and or otherwise time varying. The residual signals and or residual signal segments possibly including weighting factors may be subsequently summed at to yield the reference signal.

A determination may be made at as to whether any additional encoding of the heretofore encoded audio information is desired. If such encoding is desired it is applied to the side information i.e. sinusoidal parameters and or spectral envelope information and or to the reference signal at . Such coding may comprise any of a variety of audio and or data encoding methods and or protocols such as MP3 encoding AAC Dolby AC 3 and or the like. Finally the side information comprising the sinusoidal parameters and spectral envelope and the reference signal may be packaged as a data structure for subsequent use storage transmission and or the like .

In an implementation the APT may be configured with five system components. During the analysis stage the APT may perform the following for each short time segment of each audio source signal 

The sinusoidal model may represent a harmonic signal s n n being the time index as a sum of a small number of sinusoids with time varying amplitudes and frequencies 

where A n and n are the instantaneous amplitude and phase respectively. To find the parameters of the model associated with a given audio source signal the extraction component segments the source signal into a number of short time frames and determines the short time Fourier transform STFT for each frame. The extraction component may then identify the prominent spectral peaks from the resulting power spectrum such as by using a peak detection algorithm. Each peak may be associated to a triad of the form A amplitude frequency and phase which corresponds to the lth sinewave component of the qth time segment or frame. A peak continuation algorithm may be employed in order to assign each peak to a frequency trajectory by matching the peaks of the previous frame to the current frame using linear amplitude interpolation and or cubic phase interpolation. However any algorithm which retains a small number of frequency components out of the actual spectrum of a harmonic e.g. audio or speech signal at each short time segment based on the perceptual importance of those frequency components can be classified as a sinusoidal model .

The APT may implement any of a number of variations of the sinusoid plus noise model for applications such as signal modification and low bit rate coding focusing on three different problems 1 accurately estimating the sinusoidal parameters from the original spectrum 2 representing the modeling error noise component and 3 representing signal transients. While some noise modeling methods offer the advantage of low bit rate coding for the noise part the resulting audio quality may often be worse than the quality of the original audio signal subjective results with average grades around 3.0 in a 5 grade scale have been reported .

In contrast the APT achieves high quality audio modeling achieving a grade around 4.0 is desirable . An implementation of the APT achieves high quality audio compared not only to the sinusoids only model but also compared to the original recording. The APT facilitates implementing a low number of sinusoids e.g. even 5 10 sinusoids per audio segment for high quality audio coding which may be substantially beneficial for low bit rate applications.

The APT may obtain sound representation by restricting the sinusoids to modeling only the deterministic part of the sound leaving the rest of the spectral information in the noise component e n . For example each short time segment s n can be represented as 

After the sinusoidal parameters are estimated the noise component may be computed by subtracting the harmonic component from the original signal i.e 

To extract spectral envelope parameters associated with a sinusoidal noise and or error signal the APT may implement a spectral envelope model such as for example a Linear Predictive LP analysis to estimate the spectral envelope of the sinusoidal noise . However the APT may use any other parametric method or model for estimating the spectral envelope of a signal. In an example implementation of the LPC model the APT may use the following Auto Regressive AR equation for the noise component of the sinusoidal model for a particular time segment.

In an implementation of the APT Linear Predictive LP analysis is applied to estimate the spectral envelope . The quantity e n is the sinusoidal noise component while r n is the residual of the noise p is the AR filter order and is the power of e at the particular time segment. The p 1 dimensional vector right arrow over where right arrow over 1 . . . 5 

right arrow over represents the spectral envelope of the noise component e n symbol T in equation 5 denotes transposition . In the frequency domain 4 becomes

where w is the frequency index S w and S w are the power spectra of e n and r n respectively and F w is the frequency response of the LP filter right arrow over .

Since in this description there are two noise quantities introduced i.e. the sinusoidal model noise e and its whitened version r we will refer to e as the sinusoidal noise signal or sinusoidal error signal and to ras the residual noise signal of e . The p 1 LPC coefficients included in vector right arrow over the corresponding power related to the spectral envelope and the L sinusoidal parameters triad for the corresponding audio segment together form the side information per audio source signal in an implementation of the APT.

It should be noted that the sinusoidal parameters and the noise spectral envelopes and noise power can be quantized using a variety of methods derived for such parameters. This includes any related transformations of these parameters for improved encoding performance e.g. the Line Spectral Frequencies LSFs .

Although the APT may implement any of a number of spectral envelope estimation models an example implementing multiband LPC estimation procedure for the estimation of the sinusoidal error spectral envelope will be discussed herein.

The LPC model is very useful in speech synthesis and transformations but is not as efficient for audio signals. The APT derives an AR based model which can be successfully applied to audio signals based on multi resolution analysis. It is of interest to explain the reasons why an accurate spectral envelope estimation procedure may be important for the resulting audio quality of the proposed APT. One aspect of the APT system is the use of the reference signal for extracting all audio source signals at the decoder. Such re synthesis is particularly accurate when the perceptually important information per audio source signal is retained in the side information the sinusoidal parameters and the spectral envelope parameters and corresponding noise power by the APT. On the other hand it may be desirable for the side information to contain the least possible information to facilitate low bit rate applications. Thus given the sinusoidal parameters the spectral envelope estimation may be used for deriving important information of the sinusoidal error signal with only a small number of parameters per audio segment. This may be achieved by the APT by the use of the multiband LPC model . The APT divides the spectrum of each of the sinusoidal error signals into frequency bands and LPC analysis is applied in each band separately sub band signals may possibly be down sampled .

The APT implementing a small LPC filter order for each band results in much better estimation of the spectral envelope than a high order filter for the full frequency band. Thus the APT component described above with regard to equation 4 for the extraction of the spectral envelope from the sinusoidal error signals can be performed separately in each sub band. The number of bands and type of sub band analysis may vary based on the APT implementation however a possible implementation discussed herein employs octave sub band analysis. Implementations of the APT configured with 8 octave bands facilitate most applications possibly fewer bands for speech only applications . The special case of the APT using only one band is another possibility included in the above description and corresponds with a full band LPC analysis.

In an implementation of the APT configured to encode a collection of M multiple audio source signals the side information is extracted for each audio source signal and a corresponding residual signal r k 1 . . . M is obtained k is the index of the corresponding audio source signal . The reference signal for the collection of audio source signals x may be obtained by summation of the M residual signals i.e. 

Thus in one implementation summation of the residual signals forms the reference signal. This summation may in some implementations be configured as a weighted summation using different weights possibly even time varying for the residual of each audio source signal. The summation may in one implementation be performed on a segment by segment basis or in an alternative implementation after longer in time residual signals are obtained per each audio source signal by overlap addition of the segments.

In one implementation the reference signal and or side information may subsequently be coded using any method for monophonic audio coding such as MP3 audio coding . Once prepared the reference signal and side information may be packaged as a data structure stored in a database transmitted to a remote receiver for subsequent decoding and or the like.

For re synthesis of the source audio signals the APT may be configured to reconstruct each audio source signal using its sinusoidal components and its noise spectral envelopes sinusoidal components may be added to the noise component obtained by filtering the reference signal with the noise spectral envelopes corresponding to each audio source signal. As the harmonics may capture most of the important information for each microphone signal and the LP coefficients capture most of the audio source signal specific noise characteristics the residual noise part that remains may be similar for all the microphone signals. By taking the reference signal and filtering it with the correct noise envelope the spectral envelope corresponding to audio source signal k the APT determines a noise signal with very similar spectral properties to the initial noise component of the audio source signal k. The filtered reference signal may then be summed with the sinusoidal components configured with appropriate sinusoidal parameters to approximate the original audio source signals encoded by the APT.

where F is the frequency response of the signal s LP noise shaping spectral envelope filter right arrow over i.e. the p 1 coefficient vector containing the a i coefficients in 5 for the kaudio source signal right arrow over is the noise power and n is the estimated sinusoidal noise component . Also S is the power spectrum of the reference signal x.

The APT may then apply a general relation for the re synthesis of one of the audio source signals circumflex over x a decoded version of the originally available x which may possibly differ from the original audio source signal by a coding error using the sinusoidal error e n and the extracted side information for audio source signal x. Specifically the sinusoidal parameters are employed within an applicable sinusoidal model such as a sum of sinusoids to yield a harmonic component of the reconstructed audio source signal that may be added to the sinusoidal error component as follows 

where A t and t represent the sinusoidal parameters of the microphone signal k and circumflex over x n represents the reconstructed audio source signal output . In one implementation the above procedure may be performed on a segment by segment basis and the audio source signals at the decoder obtained by overlap addition. The side information and the reference signal at the APT decoder may contain a coding error and thus may differ from the corresponding signals that were encoded at the APT encoder. However with a proper encoding procedure such error may not significantly degrade the resulting audio quality of the reconstructed audio source signals.

Alternative APT encoding decoding component implementations are possible with similarities to the above analysis. In one implementation the reference signal may be derived by adding the original audio source signals instead of the corresponding residual signals at the APT encoder. The remaining APT encoding components will remain substantially the same. In this implementation the APT decoder will then derive the reference residual signal from the reference signal. This reference residual may subsequently be used in the same manner that the reference signal was used in the previous description of the APT discussed above. In order to derive the reference residual from the reference signal the APT may process each audio segment in the following manner. The sinusoidal components from all the audio source signals may be subtracted from the reference signal. An envelope extraction method may then be applied to the resulting sinusoidal error signal e.g. using LPC analysis possibly in sub bands . Finally the reference residual may be extracted from the sinusoidal error signal by extracting its envelope e.g. by inverse filtering . The resulting reference residual signal can be used as explained in the description of the APT given in the previous sections.

Various implementations of the APT achieve excellent audio quality when all audio source signals are rendered simultaneously regardless of whether they are mixed before rendering or remain unmixed. In some implementations the side information for each audio source signal can be encoded with a typical rate of 10 Kbit sec for high audio quality.

In an example signal is shown on a plot of amplitude versus time . The displayed signal represents a three second recording of an electric guitar sampled at a rate of 44100 Hz. In the signal plotted as amplitude versus samples represents a randomly selected segment 1024 samples of the guitar signal recording shown in . The signal shown in plotted as the logarithm of the amplitude versus frequency comprises the Fourier transform i.e. frequency domain representation of the signal from . In the signal represents the modeled sinusoidal representation of the 1024 sample time domain signal shown in plotted as amplitude versus sample . The frequency domain representation of the modeled signal is shown at in plotted as the logarithm of amplitude versus frequency . Comparison of the frequency domain signals in and reveal clear differences and thus the sound associated with the sinusoidal representation is different and or artificial in comparison to the original signal .

In some implementations of the APT a sinusoids plus noise model and a sub band based spectral envelope estimation procedure may be applied to audio source signals with the objective of low bit rate coding by use of a reference audio signal. By focusing on the audio source signals instead of the mixed audio signals the APT may be implemented within interactive multichannel audio applications and teleconferencing systems applications.

Though the implementation illustrated in shows a single first location from which the audio signals are acquired and a single second location to which the processed signals are sent it is to be understood that a variety of other configurations are possible within various embodiments of APT operation. For example in one implementation one or more audio source locations may be coupled to one or more audio destination locations. Furthermore a single location may serve both as a source of audio information as well as a destination for processed audio signals acquired at other locations. Such a configuration may be common to several teleconferencing applications wherein APT systems at various locations may be configured both to record process audio from the teleconference participants at each location and to decode playback audio received from other locations. It should further be noted that though the implementation of a teleconferencing application illustrated in employs a wireless communications network any of a variety of other communications methods and or conduits may be employed within various embodiments of APT operation.

To further illustrate an APT teleconferencing application in one embodiment a description of a specific three site teleconferencing example is provided. The three sites may comprise New York USA Site 1 Athens Greece Site 2 and Shanghai China Site 3 . Three people participate at Site 1 five at Site 2 and four at Site 3. In order for all the participants to communicate as if they were in the same office space the speech signals from all twelve participants may be made available to all three sites in real time. Encoding the twelve speech signals separately and transmitting them to two different sites so that all speech signals are available at each site may require significant data acquisition processing and or transmission rates to facilitate an effective teleconference. Even if each speech signal were compressed before transmission as a monophonic signal such a technique may still require a transmission rate of 12 signals 2 locations 64 kbit sec 1536 kbit sec.

On the other hand APT processing may allow only one monophonic signal per site to be transmitted along with corresponding side information per speech signal which in one implementation may be on the order of 20 kbit sec . Accordingly the transmission rate for APT processed signals may be approximately 12 signals 2 locations 20 kbit sec for the side information 3 signals 2 locations 64 kbit sec for the reference signals 864 kbit sec. This is close to half the rate in the individual compression scheme. The APT may further allow each speech recording to be individually decoded and reproduced at the receiver unaffected by the presence of the remaining recordings. This may be useful for example if there is a desire to mute a subset of the transmitted speech signals such as if certain signals are not to be heard by a particular group of teleconference participants or if isolated speech signals are required for feeding into automatic translation systems.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems engage information technology systems e.g. commonly computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors are often referred to as central processing units CPUs . A common form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative signals to enable various operations. Such communicative signals may be stored and or transmitted in batches as program and or data components facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction code signals may engage the CPU circuit components to perform desired operations. A common type of program is a computer operating system which commonly is executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Common resources employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. Often information technology systems are used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation commonly which is facilitated through a database program. Information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the APT controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices a cryptographic processor device DSP components and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this disclosure refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The APT controller may be based on common computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily the foregoing are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus . Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally a cryptographic processor and or a global positioning system GPS unit may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and provides a base signal. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of signals embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative signals may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply signal communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron IBM and or Motorola s PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through signal passing through conductive conduits to execute stored signal program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such signal passing facilitates communication within the APT controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed parallel mainframe and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the APT thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus es may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the APT controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Apple Desktop Bus ADB Apple Desktop Connector ADC audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like IEEE 1394a b infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio serial USB video interface BNC coaxial composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless and or the like. A common output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Also a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices may be card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards mouse mice remote controls retina readers trackballs trackpads and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces and or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices cameras dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added functionality goggles microphones monitors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices video devices video sources visors and or the like.

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the APT controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the APT controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller commonly manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 or Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner .

Some implementations of the APT may be configured with DSP Components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing. Depending on the particular implementation the DSP components may include software solutions hardware solutions or some combination of both hardware software solutions. As an example the DSP components may be configured as a Multi Input Hardware MPEG4 H.264 Video Encoder PCI card family such as Inventa s S26X that can be used in various data processing applications such as high quality realtime video audio capture processing applications. In another embodiment a SoundBlaster Live sound card may be used by various APT components for both DSP features and or audio output features.

Implementations of the APT as well as aspects of the APT features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing the APT or components of the APT as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory.

A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allows logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the APT system designer somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any logical function. Alternate or coordinating implementations may implement APT features on application specific integrated circuit ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. The APT designs may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles an ASIC implementations.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the APT controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the APT component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the APT controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the APT controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the APT controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the APT controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the APT database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the APT database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the APT. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the APT as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources functionality and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources functionality and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista i.e. Aero XP or Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Some Web browsers allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Java JavaScript ActiveX web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the APT enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the APT.

Access to the APT mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X. authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Inte et encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the APT may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the APT component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the APT and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The APT database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the APT database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the APT database is implemented as a data structure the use of the APT database may be integrated into another component such as the APT component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Harmonic Modeling table may include fields such as but not limited to various models for the APT sinusoidal extraction components and or the like. A Spectral Extraction table may include fields such as but not limited to various models for the APT spectral extraction components and or the like. An Alternate Configuration table may include fields such as but not limited to additional models for different configurations of the ATP System DSP component interactions. A Source Signals table may include fields such as but not limited to source signal s preferred mix levels source signal types and or the like. An Encoded Information table may include fields such as but not limited to harmonic model parameters spectral envelopes noise powers reference signals preferred mixing levels source signal types and or the like. These and or other tables may support and or track multiple entity accounts on and or within the APT system.

In one embodiment the APT database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search APT component may treat the combination of the APT database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the APT. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the APT may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The APT may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The APT database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the APT database communicates with the APT component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The APT component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the APT component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the APT that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the APT affects accessing obtaining and the provision of computations information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The APT component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the APT server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The APT component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the APT component communicates with the APT database operating systems other program components and or the like. The APT may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the APT node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the APT controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA local and remote application program interfaces Jini Remote Method Invocation RMI process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. Again the configuration will depend upon the context of system deployment.

The entirety of this disclosure including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the disclosure are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims.

