---

title: Heat exchange panel
abstract: Desalination apparatus based on porous restraint panels fabricated from a number of different layers of metal, thermoplastic, or other substances are used as sophisticated heat exchangers to control the growth of gas hydrate. The gas hydrate is produced after infusion of liquid hydrate-forming material into water to be treated, which liquid hydrate-forming material can also be used to carry out all the refrigeration necessary to cool seawater to near the point of hydrate formation and to cool the porous restraint panels. Hydrate forms on and dissociates through the porous restraints. The composite restraint panels can also be used in gaseous atmospheres where, for instance, it is desired to remove dissolved water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07624790&OS=07624790&RS=07624790
owner: Marine Desalination Systems, LLC
number: 07624790
owner_city: St. Petersburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080623
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 797 833 filed May. 8 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 490 476 on Feb. 17 2009 the contents of which are incorporated by reference. That application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 785 033 filed Apr. 13 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 485 234 on Feb. 3 2009 the contents of which are incorporated by reference. That application is based on and claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application 60 811 760 filed Jun. 8 2006 the contents of which are also incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Governmental support under ONR CONTRACT N00014 04 C 0237 dated Jun. 4 2004 and amended May 18 2005 and issued by the Office of Naval Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

In general the invention relates to desalination and water treatment purification. More particularly the invention relates to apparatus and methodologies for permeable restraint supported hydrate formation and dissociation used to achieve such desalination and water treatment.

Gas hydrate forms when a hydrate forming gas such as methane or any of the hydrocarbon gases carbon dioxide or chlorine amongst others is introduced into water or where water vapor is introduced into hydrate forming gas to appropriate concentrations under suitable conditions of pressure and temperature and in suitable manner so that hydrate crystal nucleation and growth take place. Hydrate may also be formed when an appropriate hydrate forming gas and water solution that is at pressures suitable for hydrate formation is chilled. Hydrate growth is not only dependent on sufficient pressures and temperature conditions proper levels of concentration of the dissolved hydrate forming materials HFM s must also be maintained.

So far as is known to me previous attempts by others to use hydrate for seawater desalination and water treatment which attempts introduced gas directly into the water to be treated henceforth referred to as seawater although other water may be treated always ultimately resulted in the production of a slurry formed from tiny shards of relatively pure hydrate. The shards were formed when hydrate shells formed around HFM gas bubbles would fracture. Thus far it has not been possible to purify such slurries sufficiently for the direct injection of HFM into seawater to be a viable process for commercially producing fresh water because too much low salinity water had to be consumed washing the slurry.

In contrast growth of larger masses of solid hydrate as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 444 which facilitates separation of the hydrate and the residual enhanced salinity water requires that HFM concentration as well as pressure and temperature in the water mass in which it is desired to nucleate and grow hydrate be maintained at appropriate levels. Published hydrate growth models and experimentation that have been described in Chapter 2 of Max et al. Economic Geology of Natural Gas Hydrate Springer Berlin Dordrecht 2006 demonstrate that growth of solid hydrate can be best achieved by maintaining an appropriately high concentration of HFM dissolved in water and then lowering temperature. Seawater desalination for instance can take place where a metered supply of dissolved HFM can be brought into the presence of hydrate in a seawater matrix as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 444 and where pressure temperature conditions remain suitable for hydrate growth even where such suitable conditions are very localized.

As taught in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 008 544 and 7 013 673 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety gas hydrate can be induced to form in an oceanic or artificially pressurized environment in which pressure and HFM concentration are suitable for hydrate to form but in which temperature is generally too high for it to do so. In particular within environments such as these hydrate can be induced to form on a surface also referred to as a restraint by chilling the surface so that the pressure and temperature conditions for forming hydrate are produced locally on and near the surface. The surface may have pores or penetrations which constitute porosity of the restraint. Hydrate will grow on and outwardly away from the surface when the chilled surface is immersed in a body of water under suitable pressure and having appropriate concentrations of hydrate forming material HFM dissolved therein or in a gaseous atmosphere of HFM with appropriate concentrations of water vapor dissolved therein . Lowering temperature of the chilled surface causes hydrate to form on it and in its vicinity thus filling the pores and blocking permeability.

In such processes hydrate growth takes place through mass transfer of reactants from the region of hydrate instability to the narrow region of hydrate stability near the chilled porous restraint. The hydrate growth front advances into the water or gas in the case of a gaseous atmosphere and away from the porous restraint as water immediately at the hydrate face is cooled to the point at which hydrate is stable. Growth is sustained by the chilling of the porous restraint which compensates for the heat of exothermic crystallization of the hydrate.

Sealing the pores of the restraint allows a pressure differential to be established and maintained across the restraint. In particular lowering the pressure of the environment on the side of the restraint across from the hydrate the downstream side causes the hydrate closest to the porous restraint to dissociate or melt which allows water and gas that have been contained in the solid hydrate crystal lattice to pass through the restraint into a collection region where they separate. The water derived in this process is low in salinity and is collected and concentrated for use. The process of water desalination through hydrate formation dissociation can be steady state in which case hydrate growth and dissociation proceed simultaneously and at about the same rate or cyclic in which case there are alternating periods of predominantly hydrate growth or predominantly hydrate dissociation.

The present invention significantly improves on the methodologies and apparatus taught in my previous above reference patents

In one aspect the invention features a method for desalinating or otherwise purifying water to be treated using a hydrate forming material. The method includes introducing water to be treated into an enclosure containing one or more Hydrate Asymmetric Restraint Technology HART modules Each of the HART modules includes one or more HART restraint panels with pores extending from one major surface of the restraint panel to an opposite major surface of the restraint panel and an internal chamber. In a first cooling process the water to be treated generally within the enclosure is cooled to a temperature that is slightly above a temperature at which hydrate of the HFM would form at pressure conditions existing within the enclosure this first cooling process is effected by introducing HFM into the water to be treated within the enclosure. In a second cooling process water to be treated that is generally adjacent to the HART restraint panels is cooled to a temperature at which hydrate of the HFM forms at the pressure conditions existing within the enclosure this second cooling process is effected by refrigerating the HART restraint panels. As a result hydrate of the HFM forms within the pores of the HART restraint panels with sufficient hydrate being formed to fill and essentially seal the pores of the HART restraint panels. Downstream portions of the hydrate within the pores of the HART restraint panels are caused to dissociate thereby releasing purified water and HFM into the internal chambers of the HART modules and the purified water is removed from the enclosure.

In specific embodiments the enclosure may be located at depth within a body of water with the pressure conditions within the enclosure being created by the weight of water above the enclosure. In such case the HFM may be delivered to the enclosure in liquid form by allowing it to flow from a self pressurizing surface level supply of HFM to the enclosure. Alternatively the enclosure may be a pressure vessel in which case the pressure conditions within the enclosure may be created by pumping and or vaporization of liquid form HFM as it is introduced into the water to be treated.

Furthermore compressed ordinarily gaseous HFM may be introduced into the water to be treated in liquid form in which case the first cooling process occurs as the HFM vaporizes and expands within the water to be treated. Alternatively gaseous HFM may be introduced into the water to be treated in which case the first cooling process can occur as the HFM expands within the water to be treated although such cooling will be to a lesser extent than that which occurs when liquid form HFM vaporizes and expands within the water to be treated . Ideally sufficient amounts of HFM are introduced into the water to be treated to establish and maintain saturation levels of HFM within the water to be treated within the enclosure.

Regarding the second cooling process the HART restraint panels may be refrigerated by means of cooled liquid refrigerant circulating internally within cooling galleries within the HART restraint panels. Preferably however the HART restraint panels may be refrigerated by means of HFM passing internally through cooling galleries within the HART restraint panels. In the latter case HFM is even more preferably introduced into the cooling galleries in liquid form and vaporizes internally within the HART restraint panels most preferably across a refrigerant distribution member from liquid HFM supply sides of the cooling galleries to gas sides of the cooling galleries. HFM that has passed internally through the HART restraint panels is suitably recovered and also introduced into the water to be treated.

In addition to HFM that has been used to refrigerate the HART panels HFM released into the internal chambers of the HART modules may also be recovered and recycled in further cycles of desalination or purification. So too may HFM be recovered from the purified water and reused in further cycles of desalination or water purification.

In operation of the method supplemental water to be treated may be introduced into the enclosure to compensate for the purified water that has been removed from the enclosure and or to compensate for enhanced salinity residual brine that has been evacuated from the enclosure. The supplemental water to be treated may be introduced into the enclosure on a generally continuous basis i.e. continuously but at intervals or constantly alternatively new water to be treated may be introduced into the enclosure only after residual salinity within the enclosure has reached a predetermined enhanced level of salinity been evacuated.

Preferably HFM is recovered in gaseous form from within the internal chambers of the HART modules and or in gaseous form after having been used to refrigerate the HART restraint panels. The recovered gaseous HFM from either or both of these sources may be mixed with e.g. dissolved into water to be treated within the enclosure to help maintain saturation levels of HFM within the water to be treated.

In another aspect the invention features a method for desalinating or otherwise purifying water to be treated using a hydrate forming material HFM . The method includes introducing water to be treated into an enclosure containing one or more HART modules each of the HART modules includes one or more HART restraint panels with pores extending from one major surface of the restraint panel to an opposite major surface of the restraint panel and an internal chamber and HFM is introduced into the water to be treated within the enclosure. Water to be treated that is generally adjacent to the HART restraint panels is cooled to a temperature at which hydrate of the HFM forms at pressure conditions existing within the enclosure as a result hydrate of the HFM forms within the pores of the HART restraint panels with sufficient hydrate being formed to fill and essentially seal the pores of the HART restraint panels. This cooling is effected by refrigerating the HART restraint panels by passing HFM through cooling galleries extending internally throughout the HART restraint panels. Downstream portions of the hydrate within the pores of the HART restraint panels are caused to dissociate thereby releasing purified water and HFM into the internal chambers of the HART modules and the purified water is removed from the enclosure.

Specific embodiments of this aspect of the invention may include one or more of the features described above with respect to the first aspect of the invention.

In another aspect the invention features apparatus for desalinating or otherwise purifying water to be treated. The apparatus includes an enclosure with one or more HART modules disposed therein. Each of the HART modules includes one or more HART restraint panels with pores extending from one major surface of each restraint panel to an opposite major surface of each restraint panel and an internal chamber formed therein. Furthermore each of the HART restraint panels has a series of cooling galleries extending internally throughout it between the pores. A first conduit is arranged to supply hydrate forming material to the enclosure and a second conduit is arranged to remove purified water from the internal chambers of the HART modules.

In preferred embodiments the enclosure may be submersible and configured to be placed in pressure equalizing communication with ambient sub aquatic surroundings. Alternatively the enclosure may be a pressure vessel.

Preferably the pores of the HART restraint panels taper non monotonically e.g. they may have a bi cone configuration. Furthermore to facilitate such geometries the HART restraint panels are preferably composite restraint panels made from upper and lower restraint panel sections. Even more preferably the HART restraint panels each include a refrigerant distribution member disposed between the upper and lower restraint panel sections with microporous regions or very tiny e.g. on the order of about thirty to about eighty microns holes disposed within the cooling galleries of the HART restraint panels and dividing the cooling galleries into two sub galleries.

In another aspect the invention features a method for refrigerating a heat exchange panel. The method includes filling a series of first sub galleries extending internally throughout the heat exchange panel with liquid refrigerant and vaporizing the liquid refrigerant across a refrigerant distribution member into a series of second sub galleries extending internally throughout the heat exchange panel.

In yet another aspect the invention features a heat exchange panel. The heat exchange panel includes an upper panel section joined to a lower panel section with a series of cooling galleries defined between the upper and lower panel sections and extending internally throughout the heat exchange panel.

In preferred embodiments the heat exchange panel may be a HART restraint panel with pores extending through the heat exchange panel from one major surface thereof to an opposite major surface thereof. More preferably the pores taper non monotonically e.g. they may have a bi cone configuration. Even more preferably the heat exchange panel may include a refrigerant distribution member which divides the cooling galleries into upper and lower sub galleries. The refrigerant distribution member may have microporous regions disposed within the cooling galleries or it may have holes on the order of about thirty to about eighty microns disposed within the cooling galleries.

Furthermore the heat exchange panel may include a multitude of vortical flow inducing members e.g. protrusions or dimples distributed across a major surface of the panel.

 It should be noted that the various figures are schematic. Accordingly dimensions and proportions may change between the various figures even where the same or similar components are shown in the various figures for best illustration purposes. Accordingly the text associated with each figure should be consulted for proper understanding of the concept each specific figure is intended to illustrate. 

In general according to the invention gas hydrate clathrate is formed on permeable restraints broadly utilizing the approach of my patents that are referenced above which restraints are housed within an enclosure. The enclosure may be submerged within a naturally occurring body of water or it may be an artificially pressurized vessel . Hydrate forming material HFM is infused into the water being treated and the permeable restraints are chilled by means of an internal cooling system illustrated and described in much greater detail below so that hydrate forms on the surfaces of the permeable restraints. Furthermore utilizing the approach to desalination taught in my above referenced patents the hydrate is caused to dissociate through the permeable restraints thereby releasing HFM and relatively purified water. The HFM may be captured for further infusion into water being treated and the purified water is gathered for consumption possibly after further treatment .

Turning now to the figures as shown in in an open mobile marine installation apparatus according to the invention is suspended in the sea or other body of water . A preferred embodiment of such apparatus is suspended from a floating platform such as a ship a semi submersible platform similar to those used in the energy industry a barge or other floating platform. The floating platform may be moored drifting or slowly underway while the apparatus is deployed beneath it.

The invention includes apparatus for forming localized gas hydrate which apparatus will be described in detail below housed within an enclosure . Reference numeral will be used throughout to designate an enclosure in which hydrate forms and desalination takes place even where the specific embodiments of such an enclosure so designated are slightly different from each other. The enclosure is essentially solid on its sides but it has openings for the introduction of seawater on its top and for the ejection of residual enhanced salinity water on its bottom . The openings may be valves or slots either with preset widths or of variably controlled width having motorized controls not shown . The openings in the top and bottom of the enclosure allow water to flow through the enclosure. In a preferred mode of operation addressed in greater detail below water movement through the enclosure is driven entirely by gravity. In other modes of operation water movement may be forced by the use of impellers propellers or other means of causing water flow.

The enclosure is connected to the surface by pipes . One pipe provides a means for pumping liquid HFM from a tank or tanks on the platform to the enclosure while the other pipe carries low salinity water from the enclosure to another tank in the platform . Other connections not shown between the surface and the enclosure may include sealed electrical wiring to provide power for sensors electromechanical controls communications cables and provision for hydraulic systems not shown such as pumps. Either or both of the pipes can have adequate strength to support the weight of the enclosure although a separate structural cable not shown may be used instead to support the suspended weight. Although the pipes might be assembled from essentially straight segments during immersion of the enclosure into the sea a preferred embodiment includes flexible pipes that can be unreeled from a winch drum within or on the deck of the ship or platform. Such configuration allows for rapid deployment and initiation of desalination operations. It is also optimal for retrieval of the enclosure for maintenance cleaning or extraction in the event of impending severe weather conditions when the floating platform may need to seek shelter at short notice.

In a fixed marine installation shown in the enclosure is secured in a mounting not shown in detail in seawater affixed to the seafloor adjacent to land . In this installation the HFM supply pipe and the low salinity water delivery pipes shown as a single line may be rigid or flexible or a combination thereof. The pipes do not have to have sufficient strength to support the enclosure and or there is no need for a separate support cable or other apparatus to carry the weight of the enclosure from above. Although it is likely that the enclosure will be installed on a fixed mounting the enclosure could also be installed on a sliding mounting not illustrated that would allow the enclosure to be pulled at least partially up and let down the slope . This affords flexibility by allowing the installation to be operated at different water depths while still affixed securely to the seafloor.

In the fixed installation a facility on land for providing the HFM and for receiving the low salinity water normally controls operation of the system and passes the water on to conventional treatment facilities not shown . Because the pipes and control systems emanating from the land installation can be relatively narrow in cross section they can be contained in a laterally drilled hole . Such a hole is relatively easy and inexpensive to construct from the facility to a sub marine junction facility which can be installed on the seafloor below normal wave base for its physical security. Drilling the pipe courses to connect the sub marine junction facility with the surface installation can be done much less expensively than tunneling.

A fixed installation is more secure than an open mobile installation because it has a relatively small footprint and the entire process supply and control apparatus is deeply buried. The fixed marine installation cannot be easily approached or interfered with out substantial diving equipment. Moreover inclement weather would be much less likely to shut down operation of a fixed installation. Also operation of a fixed installation would almost certainly require fewer staff the costs of ships and crews would not be required for a fixed installation and thus be less expensive although its capital cost might be greater than a mobile installation s capital cost.

With both the mobile and fixed marine installations operation of the invention utilizes natural pressurization by disposing the hydrate formation enclosure at a depth in the body of water being treated where pressure is high enough to hydrate to form. Any of the specific embodiments of enclosures and apparatus contained therein may be used in either a mobile or a fixed marine installation.

In either type of installation the primary purpose of the enclosure is to restrict the flow of water in which the desalination and water treatment apparatus is immersed thus providing a defined confined or pseudo confined volume of water to be treated. Although the enclosure houses and physically protects the actual desalination apparatus it functions in a manner that is integral to the desalination process of the invention. Because water inside the enclosure is to be cooled according to the invention as explained in greater detail below the enclosure may be insulated to some degree to minimize heat transfer from the warmer seawater outside the enclosure to the water being treated within. The size and shape of the enclosure may vary but it will be generally rectilinear in form although the external form can be modified to fit any mounting system for either a mobile or fixed desalination installation .

Further description of the manner in which the enclosure is utilized in the present invention is presented below along with a more detailed description of other components of apparatus according to the invention.

As explained above in the Background section in the above referenced U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 008 544 and 7 013 673 hydrate is formed on or accumulates against or within a permeable restraint or support member and then is caused to dissociate through it from one side of the restraint to the other. I have termed the fundamental technological concept that is the subject of those patents as well as the invention disclosed herein HART for Hydrate Asymmetric Restraint Technology.

The restraints that were taught in my previous work whether planar or contoured were relatively simple in configuration providing essentially a permeable plate whether a flat plate or a curved plate with continuously tapering pores extending from one surface of the restraint to the opposite surface of the restraint and internal cooling channels extending throughout the restraint e.g. internally within the restraint between the pores. The present invention in contrast has developed the relatively simple configuration of those HART restraints into a far more sophisticated configuration which allows the restraints to be used as sophisticated heat exchangers as well as support surfaces on which hydrate forms. In particular according to this invention restraint panels are built up from sub components and pairs of restraint panels are joined via frames to form enclosed boxes or volumes. I refer to the boxes as HART modules. A number of HART modules may be joined together within an enclosure as will be described in greater detail below. Although it is preferable for each HART module to have a pair of restraint panels to maximize the surface area on which hydrate formation and dissociation take place it is sufficient for purposes of the invention for a HART module to include just one restraint panel. 

As shown in and a preferred embodiment of a basic HART module may be constructed as a relatively narrow tabular or box shaped body with a porous restraint panel forming each of the front and back surfaces i.e. the major surfaces of the module . The various embodiments of restraint panels illustrated and described hereinbelow will all be labeled and referred to with reference numeral for convenience and simplicity even where the specific internal geometries differ slightly in various embodiments. The porous restraint panels are fitted into a frame and the seams are sealed such that gas and liquid will not pass through the seams. When assembled into the frame the porous restraint panels may be flush with the frame as shown in or they may be inset or protrude slightly relative to the frame. A narrow chamber is formed inside the frame between the two porous restraint panels. See also . The width of the chamber may be fixed by spacers not shown that separate the two porous restraint panels when they are fully inserted into respective mounting cutouts in the frame . The spacers preferably separate the panels by about no more than one inch 2.54 cm . If the internal chambers have relatively large volume buoyancy of the HART module as explained below there will be gas and liquid inside the chamber which is submerged in water during operation of the invention will vary over a greater range than if they have relatively small volume. Therefore relatively smaller chamber volumes are preferred to provide more stable predictable buoyancy characteristics.

Further understanding of the components and operation of the HART modules will be facilitated by a general description of the processes or functions served by the restraint panels . Specifically there are inter related processes of controlled chilling of the water being treated localized controlled growth of gas hydrate and localized dissociation of gas hydrate so that the water bound in the hydrate may be removed from the region in which it has formed. In general as illustrated in and solid hydrate whose position against the restraint panel is indicated schematically by vertical lines in is caused to form on one side of a restraint panel namely its outer surface i.e. the surface of the restraint panel that is exposed to the water being treated. As described in much greater detail below cooling passages or galleries extend internally throughout the restraint panel generally parallel with the outer and inner surfaces to form an internal cooling system. Means for introducing and removing 325 the coolant refrigerant into and out of the cooling system are also provided. Chilling of the face of the restraint panel so that localized conditions suitable for hydrate growth is effected by circulating refrigerant through the cooling system. In a preferred embodiment the coolant refrigerant which most preferably is HFM enters the restraint panel in liquid form and vaporizes therein to chill the panel alternatively liquid refrigerant e.g. ethylene glycol that has been thoroughly chilled may be circulated through the cooling system with the refrigerant both entering and exiting the cooling system in liquid form.

Once solid hydrate has formed on the porous restraint panel the pores of the restraint panel become clogged with the hydrate. The phase boundary for hydrate grown on the upstream side of the restraint is located near or at the location of contact between the growing hydrate and the water it is growing into i.e. the hydrate water interface and the temperature of the system is lowest at the surface of the porous restraint panel. Because the thermal conductivity of hydrate is low there is a temperature gradient through the hydrate mass with temperature normally increasing with distance from the surface of the porous restraint panel. Therefore hydrate will grow on the upstream side of the porous restraint panel outwardly into the water being treated so long as the temperature at the region of contact between hydrate and water is low enough so long as there is an ample supply of reactants water and HFM as indicated on by arrows in the upstream region and so long as the water hydrate interface is within the field of hydrate stability.

Hydrate that fills the pores of the restraint panel is exposed through the pores to the pressure conditions of the downstream region and can be maintained at pressures and temperatures that are different from those at the hydrate growth front because the hydrate forms a pressure seal. Therefore in order to dissociate the hydrate so that its constituent HFM and water can pass through the restraint panel and into the region on the downstream side of the restraint panel pressure on the downstream side of the restraint panel is lowered. Additionally if dissociation proceeds rapidly heat may have to be added to the local system to prevent the temperature from falling below 0 C. i.e. to prevent water ice from forming. When pressure in the downstream region is lowered and temperature is raised if necessary desired the physical conditions for hydrate instability and dissociation can be created. Therefore a second phase boundary that is subject to different pressure temperature conditions than those that exist at the hydrate growth front can be established on the hydrate that is adjacent to the surface of or within the pores of the restraint panel. The conditions at this second phase boundary can be maintained so that the inner hydrate surface remains in a condition of instability due to lower pressure to which it is subjected. Thus by reducing pressure in the narrow chamber within the overall HART module which chamber is the downstream region and which reduced pressure acts on the hydrate through the pores in the restraint panel the portion of the hydrate that is exposed to that reduced pressure is caused to dissociate back into its constituent HFM typically in gaseous form and water . That water and HFM pass through the restraint panel and into the chamber within the HART module and are removed from the HART module by means described below. By exposing the hydrate to high pressure i.e. pressure within the hydrate phase boundary for the temperature of the restraint on the upstream side and relatively low pressure i.e. pressure outside the hydrate phase boundary on the downstream side hydrate can be formed and dissociated simultaneously on opposing sides of its physical mass.

 Because the water differs in salinity temperature and gas content at different points in the processes that are described herein I refer to it using different terminology according to the point in the process being described. Seawater is the source water regardless of its salinity or gas content. It is the water from which bulk extraction of water molecules is achieved. Captured water is that water which has been extracted from the seawater by incorporation into gas hydrate through crystal growth processes. Converted water is water that is derived from or released upon the dissociation of hydrate. Converted water may contain some gaseous HFM that has also been released upon dissociation of the hydrate. Recovered water refers to water that has separated from the released gaseous HFM and that has been removed to the pipe assembly associated with recovering water from the apparatus. Produced water refers to water that has been removed from the desalination apparatus and water recovery pipe assembly and that is available at the surface for further processing and or transport to market. 

Referring back to and each HART module has four separate ports two of which 321 325 are provided for operation of the refrigeration systems of the porous restraint panels and two of which 330 339 are provided for collection of gas and water released by dissociating hydrate which gas and water separate naturally. A liquid refrigerant inlet and its control sensors and valves are provided in the frame. Similarly a refrigerant outlet and control sensors and valves are provided on the frame. The valves are configured for the specific nature of the refrigerant at its exit viz. gaseous or liquid. The water separation and collection process also requires at least two outlets one for gas in the upper part of the module and one for water in the lower part of the module. A gas outlet and its control sensors and valves are provided in the upper part of the module frame. A recovered water outlet and control sensors and valves are provided in the lower part of the module frame. Preferably a water dump valve that is controlled by the valves and sensors is also provided in order to exhaust water that may have become contaminated.

The recovered water outlet of each HART module is connected to a collector system not illustrated whereas the water dump outlet allows water to be exhausted before it enters the collector system. Water may be exhausted by increasing gas pressure back in the modules and expelling water or it may be exhausted by continued production of low salinity water though hydrate formation and dissociation. Each HART module also has provision for dumping water using gas flush by forcing gas into the module through the gas outlet so that water can be expelled e.g. during startup or if a seawater breach through a pore results in salinity rising to a level beyond that which is acceptable. Some leakage of untreated seawater into the HART module and mixing with the product water is acceptable so long as the overall salinity of the recovered water remains below the target product salinity. 

Each HART module further has means for exhausting water using gas flushing so that water can be expelled from the module during system startup or if seawater breaches through a pore and causes salinity to rise to a level within the module that is beyond that which is acceptable. Back flushing the pores using either liquid or gas when no hydrate is present to remove unwanted particulate matter if flow becomes restricted is also possible. Some suspended and or dissolved material in the product water is acceptable so long as the overall salinity of the recovered water remains below the target product salinity. 

HART modules are configured and arranged to operate in arrays within an enclosure . In a preferred arrangement illustrated in HART modules are placed alongside one another oriented so that the internal chamber of each module provides the greatest vertical height for separation of gas from water that has been produced by dissociation of gas hydrate through the porous restraint panels. Depending on desired water production the size of the HART modules and or the size of the enclosure there may be more than one row of HART modules arrayed within a given enclosure .

Restraints according to the invention i.e. the porous restraint panels are referred to as composite because each is composed of two or more component layers that are fabricated separately and then joined together to make a tapered pore porous restraint panel which facilitates low cost manufacturing optimal refrigeration and optimal temperature control. The detailed geometry of the complexly shaped tapered pores will be discussed below subsequent to more general description of the embodiments and in relation to the process of hydrate formation and dissociation. By fabricating the porous restraint panels in more than one section complex internal geometries for open cooling channels or galleries can be achieved that cannot be practically produced in any other way. These internal galleries can be formed by machining or other cutting process in which case the restraint panels are referred to as thick wall because they must be machined. Thin wall composite restraint panels on the other hand can be made by stamping extruding or some other industrial process such as direct forming of a polymer. Thin wall restraint panels will have thinner tapered pore wall thicknesses and will almost certainly be less expensive to manufacture than thick wall restraint panels. Because both the upper and lower sections of a porous restraint panel according to the invention have a honeycomb structure even in embodiments that may have very thin walls the structures have considerable inherent strength.

As shown in and the simplest embodiment of a composite porous restraint panel is fabricated in two sections. These two sections include an upper section which faces the water mass being treated and a lower section the exposed face of which bounds the internal chamber of a HART module . The upper section is upstream with respect to the direction of movement of water in the hydrate desalination process while the lower section is downstream relative to the water flow through the porous restraint panel. The upper section in which the hydrate is grown and the lower section in which dissociation takes place are joined together and formed into a single unit via glue resin brazing or soldering compression and shear or ultrasonic welding or other processes known to fabrication industries.

In this embodiment longitudinally extending refrigerant galleries are located inside of the upper section so as to be internal within the porous restraint panel when the upper and lower sections are assembled together as shown in . The refrigerant galleries are isolated from water therefore a gasket or sealant not shown may be provided between the upper and lower sections to enhance sealing. The refrigerant galleries are shown in and as triangular in cross section for illustration only it should be appreciated that they might have a cross sectional shape that does not follow the shape of the adjacent surfaces of the tapered pores on the side of the upper section that faces the water under treatment.

Furthermore both the upper and lower restraint panel sections have a plurality of tapered pores illustrated by contour lines on the walls of the pores that are aligned with each other through the composite porous restraint panel. As addressed in more detail below hydrate forms in the tapered pores in the upper restraint panel section thus the pores in the upper restraint panel section constitute hydrate formation regions and in preferred embodiments of the invention dissociates in the tapered pores in the lower restraint panel section. Notably the mouths of the tapered pores in the lower section i.e. the widest part of the pores are wider than the outlets i.e. the lowest parts of the tapered pores in the upper section . This relationship results in a double cone profile of the composite tapered pores in other words there is a step or jog in the profiles of the pores at the point where the upper and lower sections are joined together as is shown in . Thus whereas the pores in the porous restraints shown in my earlier patents decrease monotonically in diameter the overall or composite pores in the composite restraint panels of this invention have a step at the junction between the upper and lower sections where the diameter of each composite pore expands slightly before decreasing again in the direction from the upper section to the lower section . The benefits of such a configuration will be explained below in connection with a more detailed description of the hydrate formation and dissociation dynamics relating to this invention. 

If greater coolant capacity is required additional longitudinally extending channels can be provided in the lower restraint panel section which correspond to and are aligned with the channels in the upper restraint panel section as shown in and . When the two sections are assembled together the resultant refrigerant galleries are substantially larger than the ones in the embodiment shown in and and the chilling potential is enhanced.

Furthermore the refrigerant galleries can be formed as separate longitudinally extending channels as shown in and in which case they each have a single entrance and exit . Alternatively the galleries may he cross wise interconnected in a lattice pattern as shown in and . In this latter embodiment coolant galleries which carry refrigerant completely surround each pore. It should be appreciated that a wide variety of orientations of the channels or galleries that may vary from the orthogonal examples shown in and are possible and the specific examples shown in and are used for the clarity of illustration only.

The inlets to and outlets from the refrigerant galleries in the porous restraint panels are in communication with appropriate channels not shown within the frames . The frame channels in turn are in communication with the HART module inlet ports and outlet ports . Thus liquid coolant preferably liquid HFM enters a given HART module through the inlet port circulates within the refrigeration galleries in both restraint panels comprising the given HART module to chill the pores and preferably vaporizes therein as mentioned above and as described in more detail below and exits the given HART module in either liquid or more preferably gaseous form.

Providing chilling that is as uniform as possible throughout the porous restraint panels is important for best hydrate growth. Best practice for even cooling using recirculated fluid refrigerant is to circulate the refrigerant fast enough to keep overall temperature drop low. In order to distribute refrigeration or chilling potential more equally throughout the porous restraint panels a refrigerant distribution manifold is provided in the lower member of a composite porous restraint at the head of each gallery as shown in and . The top wall of the distribution manifold is constituted by a surface of the upper restraint panel member or by some other member not shown that limits the vertical extent of the manifold to just the lower restraint panel member. A means for regulating the flow of refrigerant from the manifold into the refrigeration galleries in an embodiment similar to that shown in may be provided between the end of each refrigerant gallery and the distribution manifold . In particular at this position an end wall member is provided with an opening that is designed to retard the flow of refrigerant into each of the galleries. This has the effect of more equally distributing refrigerant into the refrigeration galleries.

The rate at which liquid refrigerant is introduced into the cooling galleries from the distribution manifold if present can be controlled by valves not shown at the HART module inlet and or the restraint panel inlet in the lower panel section that regulate s the flow of liquid circulation refrigerant. Additionally the rate of coolant flow throughout the restraint panels can be regulated by controlling the headspace pressure in the refrigeration galleries e.g. where a refrigerant vaporization system is used. Where pressures in the galleries are maintained close to the liquid gas vapor pressure of the liquid refrigerant for any particular temperature vaporization can be retarded and the chilling potential thus controlled. More specifically varying pressure in the galleries by pumping at the outlet controllers of the HART modules and will control the rate of vaporization and hence temperature. Making the distribution of liquid refrigerant in the refrigerant gallery system of a porous restraint panel as uniform as possible and controlling the rate of vaporization of liquid refrigerant will help equalize chilling potential and hence the capacity for uniform chilling across a given porous restraint panel. Moreover the manifold to refrigerant gallery system shown in and which distributes liquid refrigerant will also facilitate more uniform chilling potential in cases where liquid refrigerant is vaporized.

The most uniform chilling potential can be obtained if vaporization can be controlled so as to occur uniformly across the span of a porous restraint panel. To this end and illustrate a composite permeable restraint panel in which large volume refrigeration galleries similar to those illustrated in and are separated into two sub galleries essentially the channels in the upper and lower panel sections respectively by a refrigerant distribution member that is disposed between the upper restraint panel section and the lower restraint panel section and across which liquid refrigerant vaporizes.

The larger holes in the distribution member coincide with the tapered pores extending through the upper and lower panel sections. The lines of small holes indicate diagrammatically the locations of microporous areas or areas with very tiny holes in the refrigerant distribution member which microporous or very tiny hole areas allow refrigerant to vaporize from the refrigerant supply galleries in the lower restraint panel section into the cooling galleries in the upper restraint panel section on a molecular basis. The refrigerant distribution member can be fabricated from a single material such as thin metal in which tiny holes for instance on the order of about thirty to about eighty microns have been drilled for instance by laser drilling or from materials that have a microporous character. Alternatively microporous membrane regions can be inset into the distribution member at appropriate locations. The refrigerant distribution member is configured with microporous or very tiny hole areas distributed in essentially the same patterns as the channels in the upper and lower restraint panel sections.

 Microporous membrane materials are semipermeable barriers. The membranes are polymers and can have a variety of properties e.g. hydrophobic or hydrophilic. Such membranes can also be selective or non selective. Some polymers commonly used for microporous membranes are polypropylene and polyolefin. Microporous hollow fiber membranes typically have outside fiber diameters of approximately 300 and inside fiber diameters of approximately 200 220 . Porosity typically ranges from approximately 25 40 . 

In this configuration the galleries in the lower restraint panel section henceforth termed refrigerant supply galleries are continuously filled with liquid refrigerant during operation of the apparatus. By lowering vapor pressure in the refrigeration galleries in the upper section to below the vapor pressure of the gas liquid transformation point of the specific refrigerant the liquid refrigerant in the refrigerant supply galleries can be caused to vaporize through the microporous regions of the refrigerant distribution member and into the galleries in the upper panel section thus providing cooling of the upper panel section generally i.e. on the gas side of the microporus membrane because vaporization tends to occur uniformly at all pores. This process may be referred to hereafter as area vaporization. Cooling of the liquid refrigerant side of the microporous membrane in the lower section is not desired therefore cooling is desirably restricted to just the upper panel section where it is desired. 

In general refrigeration is important because the temperature of the surfaces of the tapered pores of the restraint panels must be lowered to a point where hydrate is stable and will grow. Additionally heat produced by the exothermic formation of hydrate must be removed by refrigeration so that the hydrate will continue to grow outwardly into the seawater being treated. Area vaporization provides for the most uniform distribution of chilling potential especially where small changes in chilling potential are required over the entirety of a porous restraint panel or in any other vaporizer apparatus in which area vaporization may be employed . Uniform chilling potential and the ability to control small temperature changes over a large area uniformly are important because in general it is highly desirable for hydrate to be grown at a uniform mass rate across the entire surface of a given restraint panel. Fine scale temperature control and uniformity of temperature over the entirety of the refrigerated area in which gas hydrate is to be grown optimize pressure sealing and water and gas removal from the upstream side of a porous restraint as per the process illustrated in and

To achieve a desired amount of chilling liquid refrigerant is introduced into the refrigerant supply galleries . Refrigeration is effected by reducing the vapor pressure of gaseous refrigerant in the refrigeration galleries to below the vapor pressure of the gas liquid transition point for any particular temperature by pumping. When the vapor pressure in the refrigeration galleries is in the vapor phase for that refrigerant vaporization takes place at or near the refrigerant distribution member because gas is the stable phase at the lower pressure. The lower the pressure that is maintained in the refrigeration galleries the greater the cooling that is provided. In this manner a particular range of chilling potentials and temperatures can be maintained in the refrigeration galleries by controlling the amount and rate of vaporization of refrigerant. This pressure based control of vaporization and hence chilling potential facilitates fine scale control over and uniformity of temperature throughout the gallery system.

Extracting gas from the refrigeration galleries using relatively small gas pumps located anywhere in the gas extraction system between the gas exhaust on the HART module frame and the gas collector and handling system that is described below controls vapor pressure in the refrigeration galleries . Lowering gas head pressure faster to achieve greater cooling is achieved by faster pumping. Lowering pressure in the gas headspace more slowly reduces cooling. If the rate of pumping falls to too slow an extraction rate the gas and liquid sides of the refrigerant distribution member will tend to equilibrate in pressure.

Although the refrigerant distribution member is generally located between the upper restraint panel section and the lower restraint panel section the exact configuration and arrangement of the components may be slightly more complex than that shown and described above with beneficial results. For example where the individual components of the composite porous restraint panels are formed so that they partially nest within each other as opposed to fitting together with essentially flat junctions the strength of the composite porous restraint panel assembly can be increased. For example as shown in and the cone walls of the tapered pores in the upper panel section fit into and extend slightly into the pores in the lower restraint panel section . Because the parts essentially snap into each other considerable strength is imparted to the assembled composite restraint panel. It should be understood that small differences in the shape and arrangement of the members for instance to provide a spacer against the lower member may be implemented and are within the scope of the invention although they are not described here in detail. If the joints between the components are essentially flat shear along the boundaries of the components due to differential pressure may cause small leaks of seawater or refrigerant this can be avoided by making one or both of the upper and lower panel sections mechanically strong but that may result in additional material and weight penalties. If on the other hand the upper and lower restraint panel sections interengage with each other as shown in and for example a shear plane is less likely to form at the junction between the upper and lower restraint panel sections and accordingly the panel will be less likely to leak. Additionally one or more of the parts can be made thinner and lighter to take account of the increased mechanical strength of an interengaging design.

In embodiments of the invention that use a three component composite restraint panel as shown in and for example sealing the refrigeration system on the interior of the composite restraint panel from the water gas and hydrate phases on the outside of the restraint panel is important. Therefore the parts may be welded heat bonded or brazed welded together diffusion welded in the case of special metals such as titanium or joined by other methods. If the components are thermoplastic or if more than one material is used glue or chemical bonding which may also be used with metal may also be used to join the parts together. Some composite porous restraint panels may include O ring sealing at least in part. Following assembly the entirety of the three components are firmly joined together to form a single integrated restraint panel unit with the liquid refrigerant supply galleries as well as the gaseous refrigerant galleries completely separated from the tapered pores.

The refrigerant distribution member facilitates uniform distribution and control of chilling potential in the preferred embodiment of the refrigeration system. illustrates in general with internal details of the upper and lower restraint panel sections removed for simplicity how the refrigeration effect is achieved. As noted above the refrigerant distribution member contains tiny holes shown as uniformly distributed for simplicity . Liquid refrigerant occupies the internal spaces within the lower restraint panel section while gaseous refrigerant normally occupies the internal spaces within the upper restraint panelsection . The potential for chilling via vaporization of the liquid refrigerant through the microporous holes in the refrigerant distribution member is the same throughout the entirety of the gas spaces in which pressure differences will rapidly equilibrate.

A detailed highly magnified schematic cross section of the refrigerant distribution member illustrates the relationship between the liquid and gaseous phases of the refrigerant. The refrigeration effect i.e. the degree of cooling is managed by controlling pressure on the gas side e.g. by pumping as alluded to above. So long as vapor pressure on the gas side of the refrigerant distribution member is in equilibrium with vapor pressure of the liquid refrigerant on the opposite side of the refrigerant distribution member i.e. in the refrigerant supply galleries no mass transfer of refrigerant occurs between the liquid and the gas sides of the distribution member . In this state the vapor pressure of the system is the vapor pressure of the liquid refrigerant for any particular temperature . When pressure in the galleries in the upper restraint panel section is lowered however the vapor pressure of the liquid refrigerant becomes higher than the pressure on the gas side and mass transfer through the micropores in the refrigerant distribution member illustrated by the arrows in FIG. takes place from the liquid side of the refrigerant distribution member to the gas side of the refrigerant distribution member. Thus varying pressure on the gas side of the refrigerant distribution member can be used to regulate vaporization of the liquid refrigerant in the supply galleries and hence cooling of the pores in the restraint panels in general.

Thus the refrigerant distribution member essentially functions as a phase partition and separates liquid refrigerant from gaseous refrigerant. If little or no vaporization is taking place across the refrigerant distribution member and the cooling potential is small the liquid side of the refrigerant distribution member is maintained at or just above the vapor pressure of the gas liquid transition and the gaseous side of the refrigerant distribution member is held at or below the vapor pressure of the refrigerant. Increasing the pressure differential across the refrigerant distribution member will increase the rate of vaporization and therefore increase the cooling potential. The micropores are phyllic to the particular refrigerant for example CO . Therefore liquid refrigerant fills the micropores but surface tension holds it within the micropores and prevents it from passing as droplets or as a surface film onto the other side of the refrigerant distribution member so long as the pressure differential does not become excessive as illustrated in . The gas side of the refrigerant distribution member may be coated with material such as a metallized surface that is phobic to the liquid refrigerant to keep the liquid refrigerant from wicking onto the gas side of the refrigerant distribution member. Vaporization is most efficient thermally when it takes place entirely at the gas liquid interface at the distribution member or within the gas chamber.

The chilling effect of vaporizing refrigerant across the refrigerant distribution member is approximately the same throughout all of the gas space within a given restraint panel because approximately the same rate and amount of vaporization takes place everywhere along the refrigerant distribution member. This is because the liquid in the liquid refrigerant supply galleries and the gas in the refrigerant galleries constitute individual hydraulic systems that interact at the refrigerant distribution member. Therefore because the amount of vaporization and hence refrigeration can be regulated closely by varying pressure in the refrigeration galleries the system response to changing conditions and thermal demand required to chill the water and maintain temperatures at which hydrate will form is greatly improved as compared to the prior art.

During periods of higher chilling requirements the vapor pressure differential between the liquid and gas sides of the refrigerant distribution member may become great enough for liquid droplets to be ejected through the refrigerant distribution member into the otherwise gas filled refrigeration galleries where they vaporize rapidly and contribute to cooling. This is because the surface area for vaporization of the liquid droplets is greater than that which is normally available on the pore area of the refrigerant distribution member. This further accelerates the chilling process and may be used as a technique to increase cooling potential above that which is afforded by vaporization at just the surface of liquid exposed in the micropores.

If a strictly circulating liquid refrigerant system is used for cooling refrigeration instead of vaporization across the refrigerant distribution member larger holes may be provided in the refrigerant distribution member if one is even used at all to allow the liquid refrigerant to pass more easily and uniformly from the refrigerant supply galleries to the refrigerant galleries since the inherent viscosity of liquid refrigerant will otherwise tend to restrict the speed of its passage through the refrigerant distribution member . The sole difference necessary for the refrigerant distribution member to be used to equally distribute liquid instead of vaporization is in the size of the distribution holes in the member the overall benefit of the refrigerant distribution member equal distribution of chilling potential is however essentially the same.

If the LCOis pure enough such that small particles do not exist within it that could otherwise clog the vaporizer system then LCOcan be employed directly from a surface feed. This pass through mode would involve no special recompression apart from that applied to gaseous COrecovered from the dissociated hydrate. It is likely however that a vapor compression system using the same COmay be employed. Once it is purified of particulate matter it can be cycled indefinitely with topping up only necessary to replace leaks. A purification recharge system for the cooling of porous restraints by recirculating vapor compression methods may be implemented in the immediate vicinity of the enclosure or near the LCOsupply.

Reverting to more general considerations a porous restraint panel according to the invention preferably has equal thickness for all pore walls the controlling surfaces for heat exchange for the uniform growth of hydrate and is as thin as possible so that heat transfer is enhanced. This class of porous restraint panel is referred to as thin wall and can be produced in limited numbers by machining or in larger numbers for lower cost by stamping for instance of thin metal sheets or forming for example using a fluid to solid casting or extrusion process . Whereas machined components e.g. as shown in and begin with metal or other suitable material such as plastic or composite material similar to carbon fiber that is at least as thick as the final restraint panel component thin wall porous restraint panels may be fabricated from thin sheets of material that are formed into complex three dimensional shapes. There are two basic ways to make thin wall restraint panels stamping and forming. In stamping a sheet of metal such as titanium alloy that is very resistant to marine corrosion or other suitable material such as plastic is stamped in a die by inserting the sheet of material in the die and pressing the sheet between the two dies. Formed components on the other hand can be extruded or cast.

Alternatively in a preferred embodiment as illustrated in two porous restraint panels may be cast so that they are integral with a frame analogous to the frame shown in and together with which they form a basic HART module e.g. as discussed earlier in relation to and . Spacers not illustrated can also be added within the internal chamber during fabrication to help maintain a constant width of the central chamber when pressure therein is reduced during operation of the apparatus of the invention. Additionally in this configuration of a HART module the frame itself does not contain refrigerant inlet ports and exhaust ports e.g. as described above in connection with and rather inlets and outlets to one or more locations on each composite restraint are provided. One inlet and outlet are shown per each composite porous restraint panel in but this is for illustration purposes only. Thus the frame and refrigerant distribution system can be implemented in a number of different ways both through the frame and directly to each composite porous restraint.

Furthermore with respect to this embodiment the tapered pores are preferably staggered or offset with respect to each other so that each HART module can be made thinner. This arrangement also improves the overall process of hydrate growth and dissociation in each tapered pore which will be explained in greater detail below.

In all of the embodiments of porous restraint panels described herein other apparatus may be added to achieve better thermodynamic performance and to enhance liquid gas and water flows. For instance where it is desired to have more than one internal gallery system for chilling or for carrying a sensor system mainly pressure and temperature sensors these may be implemented using another member in the composite restraint panels. Furthermore a layer of insulation may be added on the face of each of the porous restraint panels in order to prevent unwanted or excessive hydrate from forming on the restraint panels in regions other than the tapered pores. Surfaces may also be treated for instance by anodizing or coating with corrosion resistant materials such as TEFLON to prevent biofouling or to facilitate hydrate growth.

Expanding the focus of this disclosure back to the overall systems of the invention arrays of HART modules in which the porous restraint panels support hydrate growth and function as heat exchangers support desalination by promoting controlled growth of gas hydrate. Such arrays are provided in enclosures that substantially or completely isolate water being treated by the HART apparatus from open seawater preferably in a marine environment so that conditions suitable for gas hydrate nucleation and growth can be maintained within the enclosures . Nucleation and growth of gas hydrate is facilitated in part by means of liquid refrigerant in either in a circulating system or in a vaporization mode as described above.

Furthermore refrigerant preferably which is also a hydrate forming material as noted above is advantageously utilized according to the invention in several ways. First the refrigerant is used to control directly the temperature of the water being treated. In particular injecting refrigerant such as liquid carbon dioxide directly into the water being treated within an enclosure or a pressure vessel e.g. as shown in which refrigerant vaporizes and or expands upon release into the seawater cools the water to a desired temperature just above that suitable for hydrate formation since the refrigerant absorbs heat energy from the water as it vaporizes expands. Thus by regulating the amount of such liquid or gaseous HFM released into the enclosure or pressure vessel the desired pseudo ambient temperature can be maintained within the enclosure or pressure vessel. Moreover so injecting refrigerant that is an HFM into the water being treated helps maintain saturation or even supersaturation concentration levels of dissolved HFM that are suitable for hydrate growth regardless of the temperature of source water for common natural seawater temperatures . Pressures required for any particular HFM to nucleate and grow hydrate are generated by immersing the enclosure to an appropriate depth in the body of water in a marine based application of the invention or by pumping and or vaporization within a pressure vessel in a pressure vessel based application of the invention. 

Second highly localized conditions for controlled hydrate nucleation and growth are created and maintained on the porous restraint panels by virtue of their internal refrigeration. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention liquid refrigerant e.g. liquid carbon dioxide is the hydrate forming material used in the practice of the invention and is vaporized as part of the refrigeration process as described above. In that case the gasified HFM produced by vaporization of the liquid refrigerant HFM may be injected into the water being treated where it contributes to hydrate growth. Alternatively is so desired gasified liquid refrigerant may be recompressed and recirculated in a vapor compression based refrigeration cycle. In that case the refrigerant in the refrigeration system is isolated from the water being treated and the refrigerant does not need to be the same as the HFM used for practice of the invention or even an HFM at all .

To better understand overall operation of the invention it is useful to understand the pressure and temperature relationships in a normal seawater region where the invention may be operated and to more fully understand how pressure temperature and concentration of dissolved HFM COin the example used here can be manipulated. This is because a number of naturally occurring oceanographic conditions and physical processes are utilized in the practice of the invention which conditions and processes are not commonly used in the manner they are used in this invention.

Many materials used as refrigerants are also hydrate formers including ammonia sulfur dioxide ethyl chloride carbon tetrachloride isobutane propane methylene chloride chlorofluorocarbons including FREON and carbon dioxide CO . The solubility vapor pressures at a liquid gas interface and chemical reactions of the various refrigerant hydrate formers with water and substances normally found in seawater vary considerably and should be taken into consideration in selecting and using a particular material as a refrigerant hydrate former.

Although a number of hydrate forming gases may be used a preferred hydrate former for use in the invention is CO. COhas a number of attributes that make it a preferred HFM for desalination through gas hydrate using the invention. COis very soluble in water so a relatively small volume of water can contain a substantial amount of dissolved gas especially under pressure. COdissolves quickly in seawater and the seawater is thus a good media for diffusion mass transfer which is important for the process of growing hydrate. COhydrate has been shown to nucleate spontaneously and grow easily both experimentally in the laboratory and in the open ocean. COis an excellent hydrate former with hydrate that exhibits strong rejection of dissolved solids and saline droplet impurities which makes COan ideal HFM for desalination and water separation in general.

COis non combustible easy to handle and relatively safe. Even though COis corrosive to certain metals at high concentrations such corrosion can be mitigated through careful selection of materials. It is also commercially available almost world wide as a liquid that can be stored in relatively low pressure containment vessels without refrigeration and it is available at relatively low cost. Furthermore this already low cost is expected to decrease over time in part because COfrom concentrated sources such as power generation is going to be captured and disposed of in either the sea or geological reservoirs according to the Kyoto accords in order to mitigate global climate change warming . Thus disposal of COmay actually render COused in the desalination process a profit item rather than a cost item. In addition concentrated COis a strong biocide so little biofouling is likely to occur within the apparatus itself although its dispersal in the ocean as part of the disposal process may quickly render the effluent innocuous to biota . Furthermore COis an excellent refrigerant because of its current low cost availability non toxicity and biomedically benign nature.

COis used in this invention both to reduce the pseudo ambient water temperature so that hydrate will nucleate and grow and to provide the HFM that will combine with water to form the desalination effective hydrate. Thus in the most preferred implementation of the invention COinfusion into the water being treated and CO based chilling due to both infusion vaporization expansion of COin the water being treated and refrigeration in the heat exchanging restraint panels take place as part of the same overall inventive process. In order for COhydrate to nucleate and grow at a suitable pressure depth region the seawater must be supersaturated with HFM at the given pressure and the temperature of the water being treated usually must first be reduced from its ambient temperature to a required lower temperature. Injecting liquid CO LCO into an enclosure or pressure vessel at a temperature above the liquid to gas phase transition in pressure temperature space hereafter referred to as liquidus will cause violent vaporization and dissolution of the LCOinto the water being treated. According to the invention the rate of injection of COis controlled so that all of it dissolves into the water being treated even though a transient phase of very tiny bubbles may exist from time to time which bubbles will dissolve rapidly. An ideal state may be reached when a few very small gas bubbles coexist with supersaturated water with the remainder of the infused COhaving been dissolved to the existing physical limits of the system. Thus or even supersaturation apparatus within the enclosure or within the water being treated to specifically measure the concentration of dissolved COis not required. Rather the existence of a small exsolved gas head in the enclosure or pressure vessel not shown in which the invention operates is sufficient to indicate supersaturation and hence the existence of favorable hydrate growth conditions.

Although source seawater or other water being treated can be refrigerated or pre chilled elsewhere by heat transfer with a circulating chilled fluid or other refrigeration apparatus as noted previously the invention preferably uses liquid HFM to chill refrigerate the water by direct vaporization within an enclosure or other pressure vessel. Vaporization of LCOis endothennic as a function of the change of state of the material. is a graph of the heat of vaporization of COfor different water depths using an assumed ambient seawater temperature of about 15 C. which is approximately the temperature of low latitude ocean water masses at a depth of about 300 meters. For example shows an actual measured hydrothermal profile from near the Canary Islands in the eastern central Atlantic Ocean. The heat of vaporization data allows one to calculate the amount of liquid and gaseous COthat must be injected into the water to obtain a desired water temperature within an enclosure from any starting ambient water temperature. For any water temperature depth profile a control diagram that dictates the amount of liquid HFM that must be vaporized to cool the source water of any normal ocean temperature to the required hydrate forming temperature within an enclosure may be calculated and plotted.

Under operational conditions the temperature of the seawater after LCOis vaporized by being injected into it is monitored and the rate of dissolution of COis controlled to maintain temperatures just above the hydrate phase boundary and to compensate for changes in the source water temperature. Further vaporization of LCObeyond that amount will simply increase the amount of COin the water and lower the temperature of the water throughout the enclosure to within the field of hydrate stability thus causing hydrate to form generally throughout the water mass where it is not wanted.

Subsequently further cooling refrigeration provided by the porous restraint panels will lower the temperature of the water being treated from Point B which is the water temperature within the enclosure generally to Point C the temperature at Point C is the temperature of water being treated immediately at the surface of and adjacent to the porous restraint panels i.e. on the walls of the tapered pores and is within the field of hydrate stability. Therefore hydrate will form and grow within the pores of the restraint panels upon further cooling of the water being treated from Point B to Point C.

Once sufficient hydrate has formed within the pores of the restraint panels to clog and pressure seal them pressure within the narrow chamber is reduced e.g. by pumping. As noted above and explained in further detail below the portions of hydrate that are exposed to that reduced pressure ideally hydrate that is protruding into the lower portions of the bi cone tapered pores i.e. the portions of the pores that are formed within the lower restraint panel sections will dissociate back into relatively pure water i.e. converted water and gaseous HFM which pass into the chamber . From there the converted water and gaseous HFM and are withdrawn from the HART modules and handled according to further processing steps as described in more detail below.

In addition to the advantages of using COfor hydrate based desalination enumerated above a further benefit of using CO LCO for hydrate based desalination in a submerged apparatus is that its transformation of state between liquid and gaseous forms takes place at pressures that are encountered at relatively shallow depths in the sea or other bodies of water. The pressure temperature region of the COhydrate stability field in which LCOhydrate based desalination is practiced is within the field of hydrate stability above the liquidus . The higher pressure region of hydrate stability below the liquidus will have much slower hydrate growth rates associated with it. Thus the pressure required for COhydrate to form may be achieved relatively easily by positioning an enclosure with HART modules arrayed therein within this range of water depths and then controlling water temperature appropriately.

Regarding the conditions for hydrate growth in order for hydrate growth to be maintained on the porous restraint panels COshould be kept at supersaturation levels in the seawater in the enclosure. Ideally this is accomplished without lowering the overall water temperature in the enclosure due to LCOvaporization to such an extent that hydrate forms generally throughout the enclosure as alluded to above. This is because residual water i.e. enhanced salinity brine within the enclosure that is left behind as hydrate is formed and extracts pure water from the seawater will eventually be discharged from the enclosure and hydrate that forms generally within the water mass will tend to be lost with that residual water thus wasting HFM and lowering efficiency of the inventive process. Therefore one or both of two solutions to this concern may be implemented in order to maintain the water being treated at the desired temperature and concentration.

In particular warmer water from either greater or shallower depths may be introduced to the enclosure as the ambient water to be treated or it may simply be mixed with ambient water immediately surrounding the enclosure. This facilitates further vaporization of LCOinto the water in the enclosure and hence increases COconcentration without lowering the temperature of the water being treated so far as to cause unwanted hydrate to form generally within the water mass. Admittedly balancing concentration and temperature by using seawater of different temperatures may ultimately prove difficult and even though concentration may be raised in this manner it ultimately may not be raised enough or sufficiently regularly to provide for a continuous desalination process. Alternatively instead of using all liquid CO some gaseous CO which when dissolved does not produce the same level of chilling as vaporization of LCO may be mixed with the chilled water within the enclosure with due regard for the energy balance of simple dissolution from the gas phase .

Furthermore regarding maintaining conditions for hydrate growth detailed and on going monitoring of local oceanography in the vicinity of the desalination installation should be conducted using standard oceanographic instrumentation and techniques so that any balance between infusing LCOand dissolving gaseous COcan be managed in order to keep water temperature within the enclosure in a desired narrow range i.e. at about Position B in . Such monitoring is particularly important if water having different temperatures and or drawn from different depths is used as part of the inventive process since these variable temperature measurements provide the basic control data and input data for the operational algorithms used to control the desalination process of the invention. Additionally diagrams similar to must be generated for each installation location so that the particular depth of the installation and the temperature of the water at that depth or other depths where water intakes are to be located can be taken into account for determining refrigeration requirements of the water to be treated.

Turning now to a somewhat more macroscopic discussion according to the invention seawater is brought into an enclosure or pressure vessel where it is charged with HFM while its temperature is reduced to near the point that hydrate is stable at the given pressure depth as explained above . Infusion of the HFM into the source water with its resulting vaporization and concomitant chilling of the seawater is carried out entirely within the enclosure or pressure vessel . Furthermore according to the invention the seawater within the enclosure may be subjected to either continuous or periodic infusion of HFM but on a continuous basis so as to keep HFM concentration high enough to permit hydrate to crystallize. As hydrate grows on the porous restraint panels and the water contained in the hydrate i.e. the captured water is extracted through the restraint panels and into the chambers in the HART modules more seawater may be brought into the enclosure where it mixes with residual enhanced salinity seawater brine remaining in the enclosure while it the replacement seawater is being charged with HFM. In one mode of operation according to the invention it is intended that hydrate be grown until the salinity of the residual seawater within the enclosure increases to a target level which target level is determined by a number of factors that are described in more detail below at that point all of the water within the enclosure may be allowed to exit from the enclosure so as to be replaced by new ambient seawater from immediately outside the enclosure. Alternatively in another mode of operation according to the invention additional water to be treated may be introduced into the enclosure on a generally continuous basis either intermittently at a steady rate or constantly and residual brine is evacuated from the enclosure generally at the same time i.e. without allowing residual salinity within the enclosure to rise to a level that is too high. Thus infusion of HFM into the water being treated and its incorporation into hydrate are generally continuous processes whereas refreshing the water to be treated in the enclosure and evacuating the enclosure may be either batch or continuous processes.

As hydrate grows on the restraint panels and extracts fresh water from the source seawater the salinity of the residual water brine within the enclosure increases. Additionally the residual water will be colder than the surrounding ambient seawater. Therefore the density of the residual water within the enclosure will be greater than the density of the surrounding ambient water so that when it the residual water is released from the enclosure essentially as a bolus the residual water will automatically sink downward and away from the enclosure. This natural movement of the residual water away from the enclosure removes the more saline water from the location of the desalination operation into the lower open ocean depths and away from the surface where it could otherwise have a larger impact on the marine biosphere. To facilitate delivery of the residual water to depth it may be advantageous to exhaust the residual water from a pipe not shown extending downwardly from the desalination apparatus. 

As the residual water sinks it mixes slightly with normal seawater which mitigates the higher salinity and the lower pH of the residual water caused by high levels of HFM CO dissolved in it. Additionally as the bolus of residual water sinks pressure on it increases and the relative level of saturation with HFM CO decreases. Therefore the residual water becomes undersaturated with COas it sinks so that environmental effects of the initially high saturation decrease with increasing depth.

 This dynamic removes COfrom the near surface environment in which it has been used for desalination water purification and sequesters it in the lower ocean depths. As the bolus of residual water continues to sink pressure on it increases and temperature decreases. Therefore COhydrate may form in the residual water. Formation of COhydrate will further increase the overall density of the residual seawater mass and expedite sinking of COtoward the seafloor because COhydrate is negatively buoyant. Thus in addition to providing desalination purification of water the invention provides an elegant means by which carbon dioxide may be sequestered. 

With regard to providing LCOto the enclosure for operation of the invention there should be little if any energy cost required to pump the LCOto the depths at which the system will be operating. In particular the pressure in the holding tank e.g. will be the vapor pressure of carbon dioxide at the temperature where the vessel is stored. The pressure at the bottom of the supply line to the enclosure e.g. will be equal to the vapor pressure in the storage tank plus the head pressure caused by the weight of the LCOin the delivery pipe. That pressure will in most cases be higher than the water pressure at depth. Therefore the liquid carbon dioxide can be delivered to the hydrate forming region in the enclosure simply by opening a valve. For liquefied HFM other than LCO which may not have similar vapor pressure it may be necessary to pump the HFM from a storage vessel on the surface to the enclosure. 

Once the LCOreaches the enclosure there are two approaches to infusing it into the water being treated according to the invention. In a single compartment enclosure LCOinfusion mixing and hydrate growth all occur within a single compartment. In a multiple compartment enclosure in contrast infusion and mixing take place in one chamber while the hydrate is grown in a separate principal chamber that houses an array of HART modules. In either type of enclosure infusion can be relatively turbulent which promotes rapid dissolution of the LCOinto the water being treated.

In this embodiment of the invention source water that is untreated except for charging with LCOprovides the media for hydrate formation. Water extraction take place through the porous restraints of the HART modules until the salinity of the residual water in the enclosure reaches a desired level for instance twice normal salinities or about 64 000 ppm . At this point source water may entirely replace the treated water within the enclosure until near normal salinity seawater one again occupies the entirety of the enclosure. Alternatively intake of new source water can be slower and essentially replace only that water extracted through hydrate formation. This mode of operation will keep the water being treated within the enclosure relatively saline but will keep supersaturation at a nearly constant level over time. In either case the COsaturation of the water under treatment within the enclosure is maintained at high enough levels so that significant dissolution of hydrate on the porous restraints does not occur.

Alternatively illustrates a multiple compartment embodiment of an enclosure in which embodiment LCOis infused into water being treated in chambers that are separate from the principal desalination chamber which contains the HART modules . After infusion in the chambers the CO infused water is injected into the principal chamber region where COhydrate is grown. Infusion chambers may be provided on all four sides of a rectilinear multiple compartment enclosure. Alternatively if the enclosure is rounded or oval infusion chambers may be provided around the entire periphery of the chamber . Still further the infusion chambers may be completely separate from the enclosure holding the array of HART modules. The preferred configuration however is as shown in

In this embodiment source seawater is brought into the infusion chambers by inlet pumps and LCO is brought into the infusion chambers and infused into the water being treated by manifolds carrying a multitude of injectors. Provision may also be made for a trickle of un infused water to be brought into the upper part of the enclosure so as to balance pressure within and on the outside of the enclosure. Water movement within the multiple chamber enclosure may be controlled by circulation pumps which withdraw water from a collection manifold in the primary desalination chamber and impel it into the lower part of the infusion chambers . Small arrows indicate the general direction of water movement in the chambers of the enclosure. The circulation pumps are provided only in part to impel the water within the enclosure since the infusion process itself which causes tiny gas bubbles to develop will cause the water within the chambers to rise. Therefore the circulation pumps primary function is to control the direction of flow in addition to causing flow since in alternate modes of operation which might promote better mixing of water and HFM the circulation pattern could be reversed.

An infused seawater manifold injects the cooled water which has been infused with HFM to appropriate levels of saturation into the array of HART modules through a system of injectors so that hydrate forms in the pores of the restraint panels of the HART modules. Conditions between the HART modules in a multiple chamber enclosure are different from those in a single chamber enclosure. In particular whereas mixing conditions within the one chamber of a single chamber enclosure are extreme because of the direct injection of LCOinto the water being treated mixing conditions in the primary desalination chamber of a multiple chamber enclosure are much less turbulent and water flow and water flow rates can be maintained as generally continuously downward. When the residual water within the principal chamber of the enclosure has reached its desired salinity it is expelled generally from the lower part of the enclosure so that it can sink away from the enclosure. With this particular configuration of the enclosure the seawater may be circulated through the infusion chambers and the primary desalination chamber several times in order to reach the desired level of salinity and to utilize as much HFM as possible prior to expelling the increased salinity water. This enhances efficiency of the inventive process.

More specific growth and dissociation dynamics will now be described. In particular fabricating the porous restraint panels in two or more sections allows the tapered pores to have complex shapes e.g. bi cone shapes as noted above that dramatically improve the hydrate formation and dissociation process as compared to that which is possible with a simple conical profile as per my previous patents. illustrates an ideal case of hydrate formation in the upper section of a bi cone composite porous restraint panel with hydrate growing in the pores on the upstream side of the composite restraint panel. Tapered pores in the upper panel section generally have conical cross sections with wide mouths . See also and . These pores in the upper panel section provide the hydrate formation region in which hydrate growth is promoted. The lower outlet ends of the tapered pores of the upper section of the porous restraint panel are smaller than their mouths . In the lower restraint panel section a similar geometric relationship of the shape and disposition of the tapered pores exists in that the mouths of the pores in the lower panel section are larger than their necked exits . Significantly the diameter of the exits or outlets of the upper section tapered pores is smaller than the diameter of the mouths of the lower section tapered pores. This provides the stepped or non monotonically decreasing profile that may be considered characteristic of a bi cone profile. The relative proportions of the diameters of the two ends of the tapered pores in the upper restraint panel section may vary as may the ratio of the lengths of the longitudinal axes of the tapered pores.

Where seawater being treated passes slowly across the face of a porous restraint panel a boundary layer in which lamellar flow occurs may form. The primary mechanism by means of which dissolved hydrate forming reactants can cross through such a boundary layer from the seawater to the growing hydrate is diffusion which may be an important factor that affects the rate of hydrate growth and purity depending on the boundary layer thickness. Therefore the thinner the boundary layer the shorter the distance over which diffusion can operate as a rate controlling and purity controlling phenomenon. Accordingly it is desirable to create turbulent conditions on the face of the porous restraint panels that introduce micro mixing and eliminate lamellar flow boundary layer conditions which of keeps pumping costs low and hydrate growth kinetics relatively high. Turbulence caused by water movement in the vicinity of the hydrate growth fronts enhances both the supply of dissolved reactants required for continued growth to the hydrate and removal away from the hydrate of material dissolved ions sediment etc. that has been rejected by the hydrate.

Turbulence and micro mixing can be induced by micro roughness on the exposed faces of the porous restraint panels. Such micro roughness can be provided by several different means each of which has the potential to induce rotational vortices. According to one embodiment illustrated in small protrusions are formed between pores across the exposed surface of the upper restraint panel section extending from that surface. Alternatively as shown in small similarly located dimples or impressions can be formed in the exposed surface which dimples cause propagating vortices which have an intrinsically better mixing effect but may become filled with unwanted hydrate over time. Therefore protrusions may prove to be more reliable flow mixers over time since they can be fabricated from material on which unwanted hydrate will not grow the protrusions either being formed separately and attached to the upper restraint panel sections or being integral with the material from which the upper restraint panel sections are fabricated. However any form of roughness element on the face of a porous restraint panel possibly even a combination of protrusions and dimples or impressions will be beneficial to hydrate growth.

Two additional considerations for optimizing practice of the invention are providing the correct heat extraction potential through the porous restraint panels effectively heat exchangers to the hydrate formation region and maintaining the correct concentration of dissolved HFM in the water being treated. Because water temperature within an enclosure may vary depending on the temperature of the ambient seawater being brought into it the relative proportion of infused liquid and gaseous HFM may vary. Ideally temperature within the hydrate forming region i.e. within the pores in the upper restraint panel sections is maintained within a narrow range so that a constant level of HFM saturation in the water being treated yields a predictable growth dynamic.

Furthermore regarding practice of the invention hydrate may be grown in either continuous or batch modes. In a continuous mode hydrate growth and dissociation occur generally simultaneously with hydrate growth at the growth front i.e. at the outer surface of the hydrate masses within the pores of the upper restraint panel sections generally matching hydrate dissociation within the pores in the lower restraint panel sections. The overall process can be described as continuous when the rate of hydrate growth is balanced by the rate of hydrate dissociation. In this case the growth surface will appear to remain stationary even though the constituents of the hydrate are moving through the pores of the restraint panels through a combined process of physical mass movement and migration of crystal constituents due to recyrstallization of the hydrate. In a batch or cyclical mode of operation in contrast the rate of hydrate growth and dissociation rate are not at all times equal so growth dominant and dissociation dominant periods which may overlap to some extent will exist. For continuous desalinated purified water production it is advantageous to establish as regular a period of cyclicity or continuity of growth as possible.

Turning now to location C on that figure is example of a pressure temperature growth position for COhydrate that is just within the range of hydrate stability in a pressure temperature field which position is maintained within and at the surface of the growing hydrate at the mouths of the tapered pores in the upper restraint panel sections. This position is equivalent to the growth position C for hydrate in . The level or position of the growth position will vary with changing water pressure at different seawater depths but the location of the growth position will remain about the same distance in pressure temperature space from the phase boundary in the metastable growth region of hydrate stability. An example of the position for dissociation of hydrate in the downstream end of each tapered pore on a pressure temperature diagram Z on which is the same as the pressure in the inner chamber of the HART modules is colder than the growth position C on because the endothennic nature of the dissociation process consumes heat.

The salinity of the seawater affects the position of the COhydrate phase boundary and hence the temperature at which hydrate will grow. Therefore salinity should be monitored e.g. via conductivity etc. during operation of the invention. As salinity in the enclosure changes during the desalination process as hydrate extracts water molecules from the source seawater the temperature of the porous restraints must be lowered and the rate of LCOinfusion into the seawater adjusted so as to maintain an appropriate temperature for hydrate growth. In this regard and to demonstrate this effect illustrates phase boundaries that have been calculated for different water salinities. The different phase boundaries depicted are for A fresh water at zero wt. NaCl B average seawater at 3.4 wt NaCl C super saline water at 6.7 wt NaCl and D hyper saline water at 15 wt NaCl. In addition to the hydrate phase boundaries the carbon dioxide liquid gas transition the liquidus is shown as line E since the pressure temperature conditions within the enclosure should be maintained so that gas rather than liquid remains the stable free phase form of CO.

A temperature drop is required to continuously produce COhydrate in the porous restraint panels. The difference between the temperature of the water being treated generally within the enclosure and the temperature of the water at the surface of the hydrate seawater interface is maintained at about 2 C. If salinity were to rise to a hyper saline level represented by line D in however considerably more refrigeration would be required to maintain such conditions Therefore it is recommended that for each batch of seawater being processed desalination only be conducted until salinity within the enclosure reaches a level that is slightly more than twice natural seawater salinity. Thus where ambient salinity is relatively low e.g. in ocean water that has been naturally diluted by fresh water such as may be found in large estuaries or adjacent to land that has had recent high runoff of precipitation where salinities may be as low as 26 000 ppm NaCl proportionately more fresh water can be extracted from the seawater before such limits are reached. Conversely in seawater having proportionately higher salinities e.g. as is common in confined seas such as the Mediterranean and Red Sea which have high evaporation salinities as high as 48 000 ppm NaCl a proportionately lower percentage of fresh water may be obtained from the seawater before the cost of refrigeration becomes prohibitive.

Another relationship that should be accounted for in practicing the invention is the relationship between depth i.e. pressure and the cooling effect of vaporizing CO since that effect is pressure dependent. Such relationship is illustrated in in which A depicts the COliquidus gaseous COabove the liquidus liquid CObelow it B depicts the upper i.e. low pressure limit for COhydrate formation C depicts the temperature of water being treated within the enclosure obtained by vaporizing a portion of LCOof about 1 C. above the phase boundary this will vary with pressure depth D depicts the practical upper limit of cooling vaporization obtained by vaporizing 100 of the LCOrequired to reach a dissolved COconcentration required for hydrate formation corresponding to position C on and and E depicts the phase boundary for brine after removing 50 by volume of pure water from seawater.

As alluded to above hydrate constituents move continuously through the tapered pores during operation of the inventive process. illustrates the manner in which this transfer occurs. When the tapered pores are essentially full of hydrate and pressure is lowered in the internal HART chamber a pressure differential is created across the hydrate in each pore. Pressure in the dissociation regions of the tapered pores i.e. within the pores in the lower restraint panel sections is controlled by pumps responding to sensors and computer controls so that it pressure approximately reaches a point in pressure temperature space that is outside of the field of hydrate stability point Z . Once pressure has been lowered on the downstream side of the tapered pores the hydrate in each of the pores becomes subject to differential triaxial strain which induced strain is beneficial to the overall process of water production and to the purity of the converted water. The differential pressure physically pushes the hydrate against the tapered pore walls and the resultant strain indicated in by schematic strain vector arrows curved single stem arrows within the hydrate within the hydrate plugs dotted causes the hydrate to recrystallize through grain boundary migration and defect and dislocation migration. Thus Annealing recyrstallization conditions are induced by the strain. Where stress within the hydrate is high enough to cause fractures the fractures are transpressional with respect to the tapered pore sidewalls and thus self sealing. Although some of the hydrate in each pore generally in the central area and increasingly toward the necked down pore exits will move en masse much of the hydrate especially near the pore walls where strains are greates will exhibit mass transport through recrystallization. Thus mass transfer of the water and gas constituents of the hydrate results from solution migration and diffusion down pressure gradients from the upstream side of the porous restraint panels to the downstream side.

Annealing recyrstallization purifies the aggregate of hydrate crystals in each tapered pore. Varying temperature within pores will accelerate recrystallization. Impurities such as salt ions are displaced toward the front of hydrate growth at the mouths of the tapered pores which is the margin of the low pressure gradient in the hydrate from which growth front diffusion processes will tend to drive them back arrow into the residual seawater. Moreover the natural tendency in an aggregate of crystals is for survivor crystals which are either larger or more stable to grow at the expense of smaller or less stable donor crystals having higher surface energies. This process minimizes energy in the hydrate by reducing intercrystalline defects and dislocations and intercrystalline grain boundary area in the mass of hydrate. Triaxial strain induced in the hydrate in the tapered pores enhances this tendency and thus aids the hydrate purification process.

The general direction of movement of the hydrate is indicated by the double stemmed arrow in . As a result of this mass transfer by mass movement ductile flow or recyrstallization processes all caused by triaxial differential stress having the axis of maximum stress approximately parallel to the longitudinal axes of the tapered pores hydrate is essentially extruded through the lower outlet ends of the pores in the upper restraint panel sections i.e. hydrate formation regions into the pores in the lower restraint panel sections i.e. the dissociation region .

Because dissociation is a diffusional surface phenomena the larger the surface area of hydrate which is exposed to lower pressure the faster dissociation of the hydrate mass can take place. The bi cone or bi part geometry of the pores and increases the conversion of water and gas from the solid hydrate to liquid water and gas over that which would be produced from tapered pores having a simple conical form in which only a relatively small area of hydrate at the narrow opening of the tapered pore would be subject to low pressure. Because the conical tapered pore in the lower section is of greater diameter than the hydrate that is being pushed into it considerable surface area of the hydrate plugs is exposed to the low pressure region where it is unstable. show idealized hydrate extrusions into the larger diameter dissociation region of the tapered pores. Hydrate may essentially maintain its conical form as it is forced into the hydrate dissociation region and . As the hydrate is progressively lower in the dissociation region it is shown as being increasingly narrow owing to a longer time under dissociation conditions.

In certain cases where the starting water temperature is low enough for instance 15 C. or less it may be necessary to infuse gaseous COinstead of liquid COinto the water being treated to avoid overcooling the water to below the desired temperature for example Point B of . In that case gaseous COthat has been recovered from the dissociation of hydrate and or from the porous restraint refrigeration system is dissolved into the water being treated. Reusing as much gaseous COrecovered from every cycle of hydrate formation and dissociation and from the porous restraint refrigeration system is advantageous and it is desired for the same gaseous COto be dissolved in the enclosed water being treated over and over again. The primary limit to the number of times a given volume of COmay be used is the salinity of the residual seawater brine that results from hydrate formation and growth. In particular at some point the enhanced salinity residual water has to be exhausted from the enclosure as explained above and COthat remains dissolved in that exhausted water will be lost.

The amount of LCOrequired to cool the water being treated by infusion from its initial ambient temperature e.g. Point A on or about 15 C. to the desired temperature e.g. Point B on may not dissolve enough COinto the water being treated to reach the levels of supersaturation required for hydrate to form. However simply infusing more LCOinto the water being treated to reach the required levels of supersaturation may cause the temperature in the enclosure to drop too much which can undesirably cause hydrate to form generally throughout the water being treated away from the porous restraint panels. Therefore to obtain the levels of supersaturation required for hydrate to grow additional COmust be dissolved into the water being treated within the enclosure but without causing temperature of the water being treated to fall too much. Infusing supplemental gaseous COinto the water being treated instead of liquid COenables one to meet that requirement.

As illustrated in seawater circulated from the enclosure can be sprayed or misted into a chamber e.g. the gas trap containing CO. Water is circulated from the enclosure through conduit via a pumping system to sprayers in the gas trap as is COrecovered from dissociated hydrate and from the permeable restraint panel refrigeration system. A pump on the reused COsystem may supplement the pump system in which more than one COstream is equalized. Recirculated water is distributed via an injection manifold from which it is injected into the gas in the gas trap through a sprayer system having clog free nozzles a number of which are commercially available. For example SpiralJet spray nozzles Spraying Systems Co 2005 are commonly used to dissolve gases in various fluids to levels of supersaturation much more effectively than bubbling gas through water. Some ambient seawater may also be introduced into the manifold injection system to replace or compensate for water that has been extracted by the process of hydrate formation and dissolution or it may be introduced by means of a completely separate system.

Reusing COthat has been recovered from the refrigeration and hydrate to water conversion systems allows a maximum amount of recovered water to be produced from a given volume of LCOsupplied to the desalination apparatus. Calculations indicate that with a system that allows for multiple cycles of COrecovery and reuse up to about 15 000 kg of water can be produced for every 1 000 kg of LCOthat is originally supplied to the desalination enclosure . This yield has been calculated by assuming that the only loss of COfrom the system is that which occurs when enhanced salinity residual water is released from the enclosure. In practice however there will be small non systematic losses. The calculations also take into account dissolved COremaining in the produced water calculated over time during multiple hydrate formation cycles for an ambient temperature of 15 C. and until salinity of the residual brine within the enclosure doubles from about 34 000 ppm to 68 000 ppm C on . The actual mass ratio of desalinated water produced to initial COconsumed will of course depend on the salinity of the source seawater the salinity of the residual water at the time it is released from the enclosure the ambient temperature of the seawater and a host of other factors. As long as a normal range of oceanic conditions is encountered however this calculation should be accurate enough for large scale estimation of water production capabilities.

Following dissociation of hydrate recovered water will be saturated with dissolved CO and gaseous COwithin the enclosure will be saturated with water vapor. Therefore water gas separation systems are recommended first at the HART modules themselves and secondly at the surface facility or to prepare the produced water for transport. Additional gas separation systems may also be provided at intermediate depths i.e. between the desalination apparatus and the surface. The pressure of gas that is drawn off at these intermediate pressure depths will be between that encountered in the dissociation chambers in the HART modules and the ambient surface pressures at which the naturally carbonated produced water is kept. If it is desired to reuse COthat evolves or exsolves from the produced water the COwill have to be recompressed either to higher pressure gaseous COor to liquid COand redelivered to the enclosure containing the desalination apparatus. Although this will require additional energy and incur additional expense it will ensure that the COis not released directly into the atmosphere. However operational economics might dictate that some of the COderived from the produced fresh water will have to be exhausted into the atmosphere or processed in some way to prevent it if the COis not reused for further desalination.

Operational energy costs associated with practicing the invention may be kept relatively low because system pressurization occurs naturally the weight of the seawater itself at the depths chosen for each HFM provides suitable pressures for hydrate formation. Additionally the HFM delivery system is largely self pressurizing so pumping the HFM LCO to depth is generally not required. The primary energy costs associated with practicing the invention are attributable to pumping water and COas part of the circulation systems described above in connection with and to recompressing the COfor reinjection into the system. For the most energy efficient operation possible the cost of recompression can be minimized by maintaining the pressure of the downstream or water gas recovery region within each HART module fairly close to the liquid gas transition pressure for any particular temperature. Furthermore LCOvaporization may also be used to compress other gases or to drive hydraulically driven pumps. It is also possible to harness expanding gas in the fresh water production line to yield considerable energy. A continuing energy cost is associated with pumping water from depth to the top of the water return pipe which is determined by pressure in the internal chamber of each HART module .

If a portion of the free gas evolved upon hydrate dissociation is recompressed and reused in order to supplement the liquid carbon dioxide in raising COsaturation levels in the water being treated which operational approach is illustrated by line B in the energy required remains fairly low while the fresh water production ratio fresh water produced per unit of COused increases. If on the other hand all of the carbon dioxide evolved from the hydrate at the pressure of the gaseous CO is recompressed and returned to the system for further hydrate formation which operational approach is illustrated by line C in water production again increases. This further increases energy costs slightly while increasing the overall water production ratio even more. Line D in represents the maximum amount of water that can be produced per unit of carbon dioxide used but with no regard for the cost of energy used to recompress the CO.

Other operational relate to disposal of carbon dioxide. When the produced fresh water is brought to the surface carbon dioxide that evolves from it must either be collected and recompressed or released to the atmosphere. Capturing energy from the expanding gas coupled with carbon emission credits earned by disposing of the carbon dioxide with the residual brine which sinks to depth as addressed above may make capture reuse and disposal of carbon dioxide gas evolved upon depressurization of the fresh water very economical.

The cost of COis a primary factor in the cost of the produced water as it is the sole consumable used in the process. LCOis one of the least expensive industrial gases especially when purchased in bulk. Moreover the cost of LCOmay decrease even further as carbon dioxide has come to be regarded as the principal undesirable waste product from power generation in view of its negative impact on global climate change when freely exhausted into the atmosphere. Therefore political imperatives indicate that considerable LCOsoon may be available as a cheap consumable to be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner e.g. deep in the oceans where it will not contribute to the atmospheric greenhouse effect . Furthermore a system of monetizing COdisposal already exists. Thus where the CO based marine desalination process is used to dispose of CO there ultimately may be no cost at all for the only consumable used in the process. The portion of carbon dioxide recompressed during operation of the invention will be a function of the market value of liquid carbon dioxide energy and carbon emission credits. This will vary over time and possibly from one location to another.

If a primary objective is to dispose of CO the ratio of water produced to the amount of COused can be varied. For best water production residual enhanced salinity water within the enclosure is not exhausted until it has reached about twice normal seawater salinity. Conversely if greater COdisposal is required the residual water may be exhausted more frequently but at salinities that are only sufficiently increased relative to normal seawater to ensure that the water mass sinks to depth in the sea.

Finally if the water being treated is treated within an artificially pressurized apparatus i.e. an apparatus in which pressurization is not achieved by immersion in a body of water no separate enclosure other than the pressure vessel itself will be required as the conditions for hydrate growth are maintained within the vessel.

The foregoing disclosure is only intended to be exemplary of the methods and apparatus of the present invention. Departures from and modifications to the disclosed embodiments may occur to those having skill in the art. The scope of the invention is set forth in the following claims.

