---

title: System and method for managing interaction between a user and an interactive system
abstract: A scalable system is provided for managing the interaction of cell phone users and users of other communication devices with public and private digital display systems and other interactive digital devices and systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08897737&OS=08897737&RS=08897737
owner: Play Megaphone
number: 08897737
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081216
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 014 243 filed 17 Dec. 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related to systems and methods that provide interactive control of devices and systems with a mobile communications device and in particular to a scalable system and method to provide such interactive control of multiple interactive systems in a multi user environment.

In the modern media world both in home and out of home media is becoming more advanced as it becomes based more on digital signage e.g. video displays and web based ads that are replacing traditional static billboards. However these video displays also known as digital video billboards suffer from the problem that their static billboard predecessors did they are not interactive.

Making signs interactive has been pursued before but has largely been a failure due to inherent deficiencies in the designs of previous systems. Previous systems have relied on software downloads to a mobile device which requires that the devices be capable of downloading and running third party software. Some mobile devices such as inexpensive cell phones for example simply don t have such capability. Other mobile devices such as higher end cell phones and smart phones which do have such capability still require a version of the third party software that is customized for that device. And since there are hundreds of varieties of mobile devices that are constantly changing the task of writing the software for each one is a never ending task. Another requirement of previous systems has been Bluetooth or IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi compatibility to provide a communications channel that can be used to transmit data. Again many mobile devices do not have these capabilities and are therefore unable to interact with the prior art systems.

One prior art system described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 450 954 titled System and Method for Location based Interactive Content allows users who are viewing a display screen in a public location to send SMS messages and voice messages from cell phones to a centralized content server. A plurality of location based displays with unique identifiers e.g. telephone numbers or SMS short codes are connected to the content server and each is controlled by a dedicated communications management console in the content server including hardware and software that records a user s inputs and modifies a corresponding digital display in response. This system also includes a content management module in the content server that creates content for each display screen. One significant disadvantage of this system is that the load placed on the centralized content server is enormous making scaling and load balancing very difficult as the number of users and the number of displays increases. Another disadvantage of this system is that it requires at the least SMS capability in the mobile devices. Older cell phones may not be SMS capable. Additionally some users may not know how to send SMS messages even if their mobile devices have the capability.

Another prior art system described in International Publication WO2004 004857 titled System and Method for Playing an Interactive Game Using a Mobile Device provides a centralized game server that allows mobile device users to play coordinated games on a game display. This system suffers from one of the disadvantages described above. It does not scale easily because the centralized server is burdened with all of the tasks of managing transmissions to and from the mobile devices running the game software and managing the game display.

Yet another prior art system described in International Publication WO2006 052837 titled A system and Method for Interactive Marketing uses a proxy gateway to connect mobile device users to an interactive display by connecting two dissimilar networks. This system requires dedicated software a content manager and a client location tagger to run on a computer local to the interactive display.

All of the systems described above are also limited to the control of interactive displays and do not address the control of other digital devices or interactive systems. illustrates the general configuration of these prior art systems where the interaction between a user s device and a local display is managed over a network by a remote content server.

A method according to one embodiment of the present invention includes receiving input data from a communication device through a first network connection where the input data originates from an interaction of a user with an interactive system converting the input data into commands for an application where the application is local to the interactive system and is configured to control the interactive system and sending the commands from a command server to the application through a second network connection to a command interface where the command interface is configured to control the application. In one embodiment the application and the command interface may reside on a local controller which together with an interactive device may comprise the interactive system.

A system according to one embodiment of the present invention includes a number of call servers configured to receive call data from a communication device through a first network where the call data represents user interactions with an interactive system and where the number of call servers is scalable to manage a dynamic call load a data converter coupled to the number of call servers where the data converter is configured to convert the call data into commands for an application where the application is local to an interactive system and is configured to control the interactive system and a command server coupled to the data converter where the command server is configured to send the commands through a second network connection to a command interface where the command interface is configured to control the application. The system may also include a load balancer coupled to the call servers to receive call data from the first network and to distribute the call data to the call servers. In one embodiment the interactive system includes a local controller and an interactive device and where the local controller includes the application and the command interface.

Embodiments of the present invention also include computer readable media having instructions thereon which when read by a computer instruct the computer to perform operations to perform the aforementioned methods.

One embodiment of the present invention is a system that allows users to interact with interactive displays devices and systems by using a telephone such as wcell phones for example as an interface device.

In one embodiment a user can use the keypad or microphone on the phone to send input to the system of the present invention. The system then captures processes and uses the input for different types of interactive experiences including visual applications running on displays or physical devices.

The system of the present invention is different from an Interactive Voice Response IVR system. IVR systems only allow the user to stay within the confinements of the phone audio channel. The system of the present invention is not so limited and allows for voice control of arbitrary applications systems and devices.

In one embodiment during or after a user interaction with the system the system of the present invention can contact that user using a variety of methods. Where the user s communication device is a mobile phone the system may generate an automated return voice call or send text or multimedia messages such as SMS and MMS messages for example. These messages may be related to the user s interactive experience and can offer the user downloadable content for their mobile phone which is targeted to the user s location or demographics. Where the user s communication device is a computer such as a desktop or laptop computer for example the system may additionally transmit web pages or links to web pages that may offer products and services to the user related to the interactive experience or to the user s location or demographics.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific systems languages components etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that these specific details need not be employed to practice the present invention. In other instances well known materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

The present invention includes operations which will be described below. The operations of the present invention may be embodied in computer executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the operations. Alternatively the operations maybe performed by a combination of hardware and software.

The present invention may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the present invention. A computer readable storage medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a computer. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage media e.g. floppy diskette optical storage media e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage media read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Some portions of the description that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits that may be stored within a memory and operated on by a processor. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to effectively convey their work. An algorithm is generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of acts leading to a desired result. The acts are those requiring manipulation of quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers parameters or the like.

The present invention may be described herein in terms of lists of alternative embodiments elements components and the like. These lists are intended to be inclusive and not exclusive. In particular the conjunction or should be interpreted as a Boolean OR function. For example the list A or B means A only or B only and both A and B. Additionally the list one or more of A and B means one or more of A one or more of B or one or more of both A and B.

The data center may be centralized or distributed. That is all of the components of data center may be collocated together or may be located in different locations and networked together. The data center may include a number of call servers configured to receive call data from communication devices such as communication device through the first network where the call data represents the interactions of a user with an interactive system . The number of call servers may be scalable to manage a dynamic call load. Data center may also include one or more data converters coupled to the call servers where a data converter is configured to convert the call data into commands for an application running in the interactive system . the application is local to the interactive system and is configured to control the interactive system . Data center also includes one or more command servers coupled to the data converters . A command server is configured to send the commands through a second network connection illustrated here for convenience as an internet connection to a command interface where the command interface is configured to control the application .

In some embodiments the data center may also include a load balancer coupled with the call servers where the load balancer configured to receive the call data from the first network and to distribute the call data to the call servers . In the interactive system includes the aforementioned application and command interface within a local controller and an interactive device which may be any electrical mechanical or electro mechanical device. Local controller may be a general purpose or special purpose computer such as computer as illustrated in having a microprocessor a memory a data storage device a network interface and a display interface interconnected on a bus .

The data center may also include a data logger coupled with the data converters . Data logger may be configured to store user interactions and metadata associated with the user interactions as described below. The data center may also include a response and reporting R R module coupled to the command server and the data logger the R R module may be configured to generate custom responses to users based on the user interactions and the metadata associated with the user interactions and to generate billing data for the user interactions.

In one embodiment the interactive device in the interactive system comprises a video display and the command server is configured to send identification data to the application to identify the video display to users. The video display displays an invitation to the users to call a telephone number or an SMS short code to initiate interaction with the interactive system . In one embodiment the telephone number or SMS short code is selected from a pool of available numbers and codes and the system is programmed to test the telephone number or SMS short code for validity prior to sending the identification data to the video display.

In one embodiment the application is configured to create an avatar for a user in response to commands from the command server and to display the avatar on the video display for use in an interactive game. The avatar may be for example a portion of a user s telephone number an image of the user or a recording of the user s voice. In one embodiment where a team of users works together to play a game as described in greater detail below the application may be configured to display an avatar on the video display to represent a number of users as a team. The application may be configured to display the avatar in an interactive game on the video display and to control the avatar in response to key presses and voice commands from the user or users.

In one embodiment the key presses comprise a 2 4 6 8 key constellation on the communication device to control up left right and down movements of the avatars respectively and the 5 key functions as action key. Additionally a 1 3 7 9 key constellation on the communication device may operate to control diagonal movement of the avatars up and to the left up and to the right down and to the left and down and to the right respectively. Users may also navigate to pages in a multi page video display by using the key to page forward and the key to page back for example. The application may also be configured to convert a user s multi tap key presses to text messages on the video display when the communication device does not have a full QWERTY keyboard.

In one embodiment the data logger may be further configured to maintain a data log associated with a user s identification number e.g. phone number and the R R processor is further configured to generate custom audio or video feedback to the user based on data associated with the user. In one embodiment the custom audio or video feedback can be delivered to the user via the user s communication device as for example text messages audio messages and as pictures or videos. Alternatively custom audio or video may be generated locally by the application based on commands from the command server .

In one embodiment the application may be a collective drawing game involving multiple users at the same or different locations and the custom video feedback may be a collaborative wallpaper delivered to the communication device of each user. In another embodiment the application may be a collective musical composition and the custom audio feedback may be a collaborative ring tone delivered to the communication device of each user.

In one embodiment the interactive device may be static signage displaying a call in telephone number or SMS short code and a user may be invited by the sign to call the telephone number or SMS short code. When the call is received the R R processor may be configured to identify the user and count the user s calls to the call in telephone number or SMS short code and to reward the user for loyalty when the count reaches a predetermined threshold. To reward the user the R R processor may be configured to direct a call to the user s communication device deliver a reward message and a reward code to the user direct a call to a reward fulfillment agent provide the reward fulfillment agent with the reward code transfer the user to the reward fulfillment agent and verify the reward code. In order to verify the reward code the R R processor may be configured to query the user for the reward code log in to a designated website and enter the reward code and the user s telephone number.

In other embodiments the interactive system may be a set top box STB a personal computer PC or a gaming console running a game application where a plurality of users control the STB PC or gaming console with a plurality of mobile phones connected to the interactive system through cellular connections to the data center and from the data center through a cable DSL and or Wi Fi connection to the interactive system .

In yet other embodiments the interactive system may be an electrical mechanical or electromechanical system where the application is configured to control the interactive system in response to commands from the communication device . In particular in one embodiment the interactive system may be a residential or commercial building with systems such as electrical systems heating and cooling systems a security system and the like where the systems are controlled interactively via a communication device with the system of the present invention.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the system may include two or more interactive systems including a first display at a first location and a second display at a second location e.g. at two different sporting venues where a first application is configured to invite users at the first location to register for an interactive game by mobile telephone using voice SMS messaging or email and a second application is configured to invite users at the second location to register for the interactive game in the same way. The R R processor may be configured to select a first number of users at the first location and a second number of users at the second location to play the interactive game from users at the first and second locations who register to play the interactive game. The R R processor may also provide the users at the first location with a first access telephone number or code to participate in the interactive game and the users at the second location with a second access telephone number or code. The first and second applications may be configured to display avatars for the first number of users and the second number of users on both the first display and the second display wherein the first number of users and the second number of users are enabled to participate in the interactive game.

In one embodiment the interactive system may include a Bluetooth enabled play device having a Bluetooth connection to the communication device where the play device is configured to detect DTMF signals generated by keystrokes on the communication device and to transmit the DTMF signals to the data center via a backchannel over the second network connection . At the data center the DTMF signals can be translated to commands by a data converter and transmitted by the command server to the interactive system over the second network connection where the application executes the commands.

In one embodiment the interactive device comprises a Bluetooth enabled utility meter configured to transmit DTMF tones corresponding to a meter reading to the communication device where the communication device is configured to send the DTMF tones through the first network connection to a data converter where the data converter is configured to translate the DTMF tones into the meter reading and where the R R processor is configured to transmit the meter reading to a billing application not shown .

In one embodiment the application may be an interactive multi user game and the custom audio or video feedback may include to the users may include an offer to sell a product related to the interactive game. Examples of an interactive multi user game include a song rating game a trivia game a rock paper scissors game a voice controlled horse racing game a space invaders type game a voice controlled car race game a card game a photo comparison game a memory match game and the like. In one embodiment the application may be a name that tune game where a user listens to a song on the communication device and makes a multiple choice selection from selections displayed on the video display of the interactive system.

In another embodiment the application could be a multi person karaoke application on the interactive system with the application configured to play a combined audio output on the interactive system from multiple users.

In another embodiment the interactive system may display a banner ad in a web page where the application is configured to display a telephone number in the banner ad. A call server may be configured to receive a telephone call from a user viewing the banner ad. The R R processor may be configured to establish a geographic location of the user from the location of the user s communication device e.g. by GPS coordinates or cellular telephone site number or a geolocation tag associated with the interactive system . The R R processor may also be configured to direct the telephone call to a vendor located within a specified distance of the user s geographic location.

In one embodiment the interactive device maybe a video display located at a conference where the application is configured to display a first confirmation code when a conference session begins and to display a second confirmation code when the conference session ends. The call server may be configured to receive the first confirmation code and the second confirmation code from a user attending the session and the R R processor may be configured to confirm the user s attendance at the conference session.

In one embodiment the application may be configured to display a presentation on the video display and to display a call in number to the audience to rate the presentation. The R R processor may be configured to receive ratings from the audience and to notify the presenter of the audience s ratings in real time.

In another embodiment the interactive system may include a theater screen where cell phone users have been reminded by a message on the theater screen to turn off their cell phones before a movie begins where cell phones in the audience have been detected by one or more cellular systems and their respective telephone numbers have been reported to the data center by the cellular carriers. The R R processor in the data center may then be configured to place a call to the cell phones in the audience to determine if their cell phones have been turned off and if their cell phones have not been turned off to remind them again via the call.

In one embodiment of the present invention the R R processor may include a player assistance function where users who have successfully completed a game or other interactive challenge are solicited to call or message other users who have not successfully completed the game in order to assist the other players. Additionally the R R module may be configured to place a call to users who have completed an interaction to provide the users with coupon codes that may be used to claim prizes or promotional gifts.

In one embodiment as illustrated in a system of the present invention may have certain components of the data center decentralized. For example one or more instances of call server data converter and command server may reside in one or more respective interactive systems .

In another embodiment as illustrated in in a system of the present invention the required functionality of the data center may be reduced to that of the R R processor alone by for example routing user calls directly to individual interactive systems and communicating with the R R processor via a backchannel from each of the interactive systems .

In a call data interface component receives inbound call data e.g. voice DTMF SMS MMS and routes outbound call data. The incoming and outgoing call data may be routed over a conventional phone line T1 line or DSL line on the public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the call data may be routed through a VoIP provider.

A call processing and management component is a module that processes inbound call data and extracts key press tones DTMF from a communication device such as a mobile phone and the audio stream from the communication device s microphone. The module takes each piece of data either a key press or a segment of audio and converts it to a data packet to be sent to the next part of the system. An audio analysis subcomponent processes the volume of the user s voice pitch and phonemes in the user s speech recognizes individual words phrases and full sentences and the like. The audio analysis subcomponent sends information back to the communication device. This information may include SMS or MMS messages prerecorded audio messages or audio recordings of one or more users. Call management functions may include disconnecting an in progress call dialing a new call transferring a call bridging a call between two users and the like.

An application management and data distribution component maintains and broadcasts the state of applications at the locations of interactive systems. It accepts key press and voice data from the call processing component and uses programmable logic to determine which messages need to be passed forward to the output component or back to the call processing component based on the current inputs. This component can bill a user by processing the user s credit card or other payment details using data collected through a phone call. This component is capable of simultaneously receiving input data e.g. data attached to SMS short codes from multiple locations such as any networked interactive system installation where user access via a communication device e.g. a mobile phone is available and routing the data to the proper interactive system.

The interactive device or system component displays the state of the interactive system to callers. It may be a graphical application running on a computer display with connected speakers. As users in proximity to an interactive device or system press keys and send audio data this part of the system receives commands for the local application and reflects the user inputs for example by changing the visuals on a display screen or changing audio output from an audio system. The interactive device of system component may also take the form of a mechanical or electro mechanical device or system having a digital to analog converter. By way of illustration and without limitation instead of a screen changing state when a user sends a command a servo motor can be activated to move a robotic arm.

A backchannel component not shown supports interactivity over channels that are not regular phone calls. This interactivity can include for example sending and receiving SMS messages text or MMS messages multimedia to or from a user or sending to a user or allowing a user to download content for a mobile phone such as ring tones wallpapers music movies games and other applications. These files can be pre made or can be custom generated on the fly based on application logic and a user s inputs. The backchannel component may also provide for billing a user for services over SMS.

The data logging component stores all data about user interactions and makes the data available for a number of different uses. Data collected may include a caller s telephone number the time of the call the duration of the call the location of the call e.g. based on the known location of the interactive system the caller is interacting with each key pressed during the call and any result of the user interaction e.g. a subscription to a mobile mailing list or a prize award . Additionally each interactive system or device may be tagged with demographic metadata information. For example if the user is interacting with the system of the present invention at a nightclub then that interaction is tagged with the concept of nightlife. When an individual user calls in to the data logging component with experiences over time the data and metadata about each interactive experience is attached to that user s record building a user profile over time that may be used to offer products and services to the user.

The data logging component may provide this information to external systems in three different ways 1 The owner or operator of the interactive installation can download the raw call data and user metadata or aggregates thereof for their own use. The data can be exported in a number of formats such as Excel spreadsheets .xls Comma Separated Values .csv or Structured Query Language .sql for use in databases. The data can also be automatically transferred between systems at specified intervals 2 When a user calls an interactive installation the local application can query the data logging system to see if there is any data or metadata about the user and can dynamically change the interactive experience. For example the system may send commands to enable preferences previously selected by the user or query a third party system such as an advertising network for content that would be relevant to the user and sending the content to the user s communication device 3 When a user has performed some action in the system then in real time the system can report to the backchannel component or a third party system the outcome of that event. For example when the user has won a game the system can be used to send them a prize code through SMS.

As described above and summarized below various embodiments of the present invention may include at least the following features and capabilities 

Automatically distributing usernames and passwords When a user views an interactive system with a displayed SMS short code and the user calls the system for the first time the system responds with a message either through an audio channel or through SMS with a PIN number or password. The user can use their phone number as a username and the PIN or password to access the system and interact with the interactive display or device.

Multilocation interactivity The application management and data distribution component enables multi location interaction such as a game played by players on big screens in different countries where all users call to local phone numbers in their country but appear on all screens at the same time. The state of the game is the same across all output channels.

Multimedia inputs and outputs The system can send and receive audio data button press data SMS text messages and MMS multimedia messages to and from a caller s mobile phone. Using this feature the system can collect and use various types of media from a user. For instance the system requests a picture from a user and then when the picture is received that picture is stored with the user s personal data record and is displayed on a screen as an avatar to represent the user. This can also be achieved with video and audio files. The system of the present invention can collect data through the buttons that user presses on their phone keypad for instance entering a birthday using digits or entering text using the alphanumeric equivalent keys on a phone keypad . The system of the present invention can also collect data through voice recognition. All of this media is archived with the user s record and can be retrieved by new installations or requested by third party systems such as websites for display there.

Mailing lists An application can use the audio and SMS backchannel to contact a user and request permission to add them to a mailing list.

Call transfer An application can transfer an inbound call from a user within the system to an external phone system. For example when a user wins a prize they can be connected to a customer service phone center to claim that prize.

External systems An API application programming interface can be used by third party application providers to develop custom applications in a variety of programming languages. Additionally the system can connect to existing software and hardware applications.

Prior data The system can be integrated with existing databases to enhance the applications. For example a database of phone numbers and user preferences that was not generated by the system can be provided by a third party and when a call is received a user s record can be looked up and the application logic can change based on whether that user existed in the third party database and what information was available to them. For example in an installation that is intended only for a certain subset of users for example subscribers of a mobile telecommunications company calls from users not in the database can be rejected or can be treated differently than ones that are.

Customization All components of the system can be customized based on variable application logic. This includes the rules of a specific application and the sounds images or other outputs a user experiences.

Prize codes Unique prize codes can be distributed through the system. These codes can be redeemed in a number of ways including accessing a secure website calling a phone number visiting a physical location and the like.

Call generation The system can generate calls to users who have interacted with the system or who were listed in a third party database. Examples of this are a game that can call back the winning user after the game is over and the user has hang up or an interactive reminder service that calls users on a schedule.

Voting The system can be used to receive voting or poll data from all connected users simultaneously in real time.

Multiple outputs The system can output to small or large displays personal computers or even live television.

User recognition system When a user calls the system they may be represented by an avatar on screen. If so they can be identified in a number of different ways. Part of their phone number may be displayed usually the last 4 digits they may be represented by a unique identifier such a color or shape which is communicated to them over the audio channel or through SMS or MMS over the backchannel they may discover their user ID by sending in input data and deducing it from changing output data a user s avatar may be automatically customized based data or metadata of the installation itself such as which country a user is calling from based on which phone number they called . For example in a interactive game with Japanese and British participants each user s avatar could be enhanced with a flag of which country they are calling from. A user s avatar may be automatically customized based on data or metadata about the user themselves such as which geographic area their phone number is from for example changing their avatar based on which state or territory they are from or using already collected data such as a favorite sports team to change their appearance or functions .

Call bridging The system can bridge and unbridge the voice call between two connected users allowing for anonymous communication.

Message bridging The system can receive messages such as SMS and MMS messages intended for a user by another user and forward them on as if they came from the system itself thus protecting each user s personal information. In some cases there may be too many users to distinguish among them on screen. In this case user s may be represented anonymously such as by a single pixel on a screen. In some instances there may be too many users to represent uniquely on screen. In this case users can be represented in aggregate for instance as teams.

Call disconnection The system can choose to end a call with a user. This can be done as a time limit on the interaction or as part of the logic of a game or other application.

Local phone numbers The system may be used with one local phone number being assigned to each output display. This allows it to feel closer to home for a user and does not incur the charges associated with 800 numbers.

Application switching and playlist programming An application can be replaced or changed in real time depending on various inputs including the inputs of a human operator or conditions within the application itself. Similarly a playlist of applications to run in order can be developed.

Queuing If an application is designed for a certain number of simultaneous participants and there are too many connected it can establish a waiting queue. This can be a visual queue displayed on a screen or could be an audio queue where a user hears a message that they are waiting and updates about their status.

Real time voice broadcasting A user s voice input into their mobile phone can be broadcast in real time to all other connected users through their phones through speakers or streamed over a data channel such as a streaming audio system on the internet.

Real time video broadcasting A user s video input can be broadcast in real time to other connected users through the video display device on their phones through screens in the physical world or streamed over a data channel such as a streaming video system on the internet.

Device customization The features and functions of each application can be customized dependent on information that is collected about the nature and type of device that a caller is using to connect. For example higher resolution images can be sent to users with larger mobile phone screens.

Input methodology A phone s keypad is a 12 button direct digital input device with the audio channel acting as an analog input device for both volume and pitch. The system can map the keys on the keypad directly to interface elements on screen. A simple example is a memory match game where there are 12 squares of hidden items containing pairs of matching items. In this example each button pressed on the phone directly affects a display element in the same general layout position on the section of the screen assigned to the user.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

