---

title: Media inventory service
abstract: One embodiment relates to a computer-implemented media inventory service that includes instructions for performing a method. The method can include selectively extracting inventory data from at least one media management system based on an agency identifier that defines a subset of the inventory data in the at least one media management system made available for a given agency. Agency inventory data is provided based on the extracted inventory data for use by the given agency, the agency inventory data enumerating at least one inventory spot available for the given agency. At least one request from the given agency is received for the at least one inventory spot a portion of the inventory data in the at least one media management system is caused to be modified according to the at least one request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069097&OS=08069097&RS=08069097
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 08069097
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080605
---
The present invention relates generally to media and more particularly to a service that facilitates scheduling distribution of media inventory.

Mass media which can include television cable satellite radio internet and other forms of media are often designed to reach large audiences with a variety of content. The type of content tends to vary depending upon the manner of distribution for the media. Many broadcasters and other media distributors often use advertising as a source of revenue to enable them to continue distribution of their respective media. For instance television and radio programs can be distributed through radio broadcasting or cable as well as through internet streaming media services. Ads can be inserted between segments of program content. Alternatively certain the media can comprise only ads or informational content such as digital signage. The media distributors consider that each available slot for advertising content represents inventory or commodities that can be sold. Thus the media distributors operate as inventory owners that sell their inventory to prospective purchasers such as advertisers or others which provide advertising content that can be inserted into the respective slots. The slots that provide ad opportunities are often termed avails or spots.

A variety of different traffic and billing systems have been developed. The inventory owners also utilize one or more automation system that provides for the automatic distribution of media content including program content and advertising content over a set of channels. Many inventory owners employ one or more different traffic and billing system to schedule track and manage their inventory of advertising spots.

The invention relates generally media and more particularly to a service that facilitates scheduling distribution of media inventory.

In one embodiment the invention includes a media inventory service that provides any number of one or more agencies with access to a selected subset of available media inventory spots. The media inventory spots reside e.g. they are stored in a log or other database structure in one or more media management systems. One or more media inventory owner can employ a media management system to schedule distribution of media content to an audience over any number of channels. Such media content can include program content advertising content or a combination of program content and advertising content. The agencies thus can employ the media inventory service to access the subset of spots that have been made available to each given agency. The agencies can also utilize the media service to send a request e.g. for booking a spot or placing an order for an available inventory spot into the media inventory of the media management system. The media inventory service can also provide each given agency with relevant as run information for the spots or orders that the given agency has requested via the media inventory service.

As a further example the media inventory service can be implemented as a web service that is accessible by one or more agencies. The media inventory service can also operate across a plurality of different media management systems and a plurality of different automation systems which further can be implemented by any number of one or more different inventory owners e.g. broadcasters . Each inventory owner thus can employ a user interface in a media management system to identify each spot of media inventory which is to be made available to each given agency through the media inventory service.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a computer implemented method that can include selectively extracting inventory data from at least one media management system based on an agency identifier that defines a subset of the inventory data in the at least one media management system made available for a given agency. Agency inventory data is provided based on the extracted inventory data for use by the given agency the agency inventory data enumerating at least one inventory spot available for the given agency. At least one request from the given agency is received for the at least one inventory spot a portion of the inventory data in the at least one media management system is caused to be modified according to the at least one request.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a media inventory system that includes an inventory extractor programmed to access a copy of media inventory data from the at least one media management system corresponding to a selected subset of the inventory data in the at least one media management system that has been tagged via the at least one media management system as being available for a given agency. The inventory extractor is programmed to provide agency inventory data corresponding to the selected subset of the inventory data for use by the given agency. A request processor is programmed to receive at least one request from the given agency for at least one inventory spot corresponding to at least a portion of the agency inventory data provided by the inventory extractor the request processor causing selected inventory data in the at least one media management system to be modified according to the at least one request.

Yet another aspect of the invention provides a computer system that includes a first computer that executes instructions for performing a method that comprises 

The computer system includes a second computer that executes instructions for providing the at least one request via an interface that provides access to the method of the first computer the second computer being in communication with the first computer via a network.

The invention relates generally media and more particularly to a service that facilitates scheduling distribution of media inventory. In one embodiment the invention includes a media inventory service that provides any number of one or more agencies with access to a selected subset of available media inventory spots. The media inventory spots reside e.g. they are stored in a log or other database structure in one or more media management systems. One or more media inventory owner can employ a media management system to schedule distribution of media content to an audience over any number of channels. Such media content can include program content advertising content or a combination of program content and advertising content. The agencies thus can employ the media inventory service to access the subset of spots that have been made available to each given agency. The agencies can also utilize the media service to send a request e.g. for booking a spot or placing an order for an available inventory spot into the media inventory of the media management system. The media inventory service can also provide each given agency with relevant as run information for the spots or orders that the given agency has requested via the media inventory service.

In one embodiment the media inventory service can be implemented as a web service that is accessible by one or more agencies such as via an application programming interface API for the media inventory service. The media inventory service is programmed to selectively extract inventory data from at least one media management e.g. traffic system based on a tag associated with the subset inventory data. The tag can correspond to an identifier for a given agency that can be entered into a predetermined data field for each spot that the inventory owner is making available to the given agency. The tag can be used as a means for defining a subset of the inventory data in the at least one media management system that is available for a given agency. The media inventory service can also be programmed to provide agency inventory data based on the extracted inventory data for use by the given agency. The agency inventory data enumerates a set of at least one inventory spot that has been made available for the given agency. The media inventory service is also programmed to receive requests from the given agency for corresponding inventory spots e.g. as enumerated in the agency inventory data . Responsive to the requests the media inventory service can cause selected inventory data in the at least one media management system to be modified according to the at least one request such as to book or order advertising content. The requests can identify and or include actual copy that is to be played in the inventory spot.

The media inventory service can operate across a plurality of different media management systems that can encompass any number of channels. In this way media inventory can be tagged accessible by a given agency such that each given agency can employ the media inventory service to receive media inventory data from and send requests for spots to the different media management systems. It is further appreciated that the media inventory service further may be utilized by media management systems for a plurality of different inventory owners e.g. broadcasters . The media inventory service can operate to ensure that inventory and related information that is available to each given agency corresponds to only a portion of inventory such as according to terms agreed upon by the agency and each inventory owner. These terms can be programmed into a control data structure utilized by the media inventory service. It will thus be appreciated that the media inventory service can enable inventory owners to publish selected subset of inventory and as run information for access by third party agency services while still remaining in control of their inventory as well as related sensitive or proprietary information.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art portions of the invention may be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly these portions of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware. Furthermore portions of the invention may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices semiconductor storage devices optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices such as hard disks.

Certain embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer executable instructions. These computer executable instructions may be provided to one or more processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus or a combination of devices and circuits to produce a machine or system such that the instructions which execute via the processor implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer executable instructions may also be stored in computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Examples of some media management systems include the traffic systems commercially available from Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. including PARADIGM OSI TRAFFIC BROADCAST MASTER NOVAR LANDMARK and BMS traffic systems. Those skilled in the art will understand that a variety of other traffic systems which may be available individually or a part of an integrated system are available from other entities currently or in the future. The MIS can be programmed to operate with any of these and other media management systems according to an aspect of the invention. These and other media management systems enable media distributors to manage various aspects of associated with the media inventory ranging from for example proposal to order inventory to scheduling and reconciliation to billing. The media distributors or inventory owners that employ the media management system can include broadcasters global cable networks cable MSOs digital signage network providers and other media businesses.

The MIS can include a management adapter system that is programmed to provide access to each of the media management systems . The management adapter system can include one or more interfaces and or logic programmed to enable communication between the MIS and a respective one of the media management system . In response to core methods running in the MIS the adapter system may invoke one or more access control methods or stored procedures of the media management system such as by a call to such procedure. The stored procedures for instance can be utilized by the MIS to retrieve and send inventory data e.g. for each of the agencies and from and to the media inventory .

Thus each of the agencies and can obtain a selected portion of media inventory from one or more media management systems . As described herein the inventory owner can employ the user interface of the media management system to tag the media inventory to identify a selected subset of the media inventory that is being made available for access by each of the respective agencies and . The tagging of media inventory can correspond to associating a unique identifier for each agency with each of the spots that are being made available to each respective agency. For instance agency agency and agency N each can be assigned a unique agency identifier that can be inserted into or otherwise associated with the scheduling data for a set of one or more spots for one or more channels. As one example the agency identifier or tag can be entered via the user interface into a predetermined field such as a break characteristic field of an inventory record for each inventory data record that is being made available to an agency or . Alternatively a media inventory data object can be modified to include a field designated for such agency identifier which can be set to a value for tagging each inventory data record that is being made available to a respective agency or . Typically only a single agency identifier or tag will be assigned to a given available spot by an inventory provider. However it will be understood and appreciated that in other embodiments an inventory owner may tag a given spot or a plurality of spots of media inventory with more than one agency identifier such as to create a different operating paradigm in which multiple agencies can compete and request purchase of each such spot.

By way of example an inventory owner such as a radio or television broadcaster or cable network provider or other media distribution entity may utilize a plurality of different traffic systems to manage scheduling distribution of its media inventory . The media inventory can include any number of one or more different types of media such as mentioned herein. The media inventory further can include a plurality of channels each channel having a respective schedule that identifies media inventory duration and other attributes associated with scheduling and distribution of media. One or more advertising unit can be scheduled for each avail or spot according to contract terms reached between the inventory owner or an affiliate or other entity operating on behalf of or with the authorization of the inventory owner and a respective advertiser.

Typically advertising spots or avails are sold to advertisers through marketing programs within or external to the inventory owners business. As used herein the term agency and its variants is intended to encompass any business entity or one or more computer system under control of such entity that has been afforded access or receive information about available media inventory through the MIS . The extent of the access to such available media can be defined by an inventory owner or by an entity on behalf of the inventory owner. For example each agency can have agreements with inventory owners or otherwise can be afforded access to a subset of the media inventory which each agency can utilize or resell to prospective buyers. For example a given agency or can enter into an agreement with an inventory owner to have access to some predetermined number or range of advertising spots in a predetermined set and number of channels. Thus in the example of an agency does not have unlimited access to the media inventory through the media management system although a given agency can employ its own media management system that may be accessible by other agencies.

As discussed herein the inventory owner can employ the user interface to identify or tag a selected subset of inventory spots on a set of channels that are being made available to a given agency or according to the agreement between the parties. According to an aspect of the invention the inventory owner may employ a plurality of traffic systems and can tag inventory spots via corresponding user interfaces for each such traffic system. A particular mechanism utilized to tag each inventory spot can vary according to the particular implementation of the media management system .

The MIS employs a management adapter system that is programmed to provide access to the media inventory of each of the respective media management systems . For example the management adapter system can be implemented as one or more API or logic functions that can be utilized by the MIS to call one or more stored procedure of the media management system such as procedures associated with the database that contains the media inventory . The stored procedures can be employed for access control to the media inventory as well as for validation of records or other data that is provided from the MIS to the media management system . Since the media management system can include a plurality of different traffic systems the management adapter system can include a specific adapter programmed to interface with each such traffic system.

The media inventory service includes an inventory extractor that is programmed to access a selected subset of inventory for a given agency or from the available media inventory in the media management system . The inventory extractor issues an extraction request to the media management system through the appropriate management adapter system . The extraction request can include the unique identifier or tag or other identifying information that has been previously associated with the given agency or . The adapter in turn calls an appropriate stored procedure that returns results of the request which includes a selected subset of the media inventory to the inventory extractor . The inventory extractor provides a set of available inventory to the respective agency or according to the results of the request provided through the management adapter system . Since the set of available inventory published by the inventory extractor to a respective agency or is limited to the set of inventory that has been tagged by the inventory provider the inventory owner can remain in control of its inventory. That is only the set of one or more avails or spots that are relevant to a given agency will be published to each given agency.

The extractor can provide the agency available inventory to each of the agencies and in a predetermined format. The predetermined format may be a generic common format for all agencies. Alternatively the agency available inventory data can be converted into a particular format according to requirements of each respective agency. The media inventory service also includes an agency interface and that is associated with each respective agency and . Each agency interface is programmed to facilitate communication between the MIS and the agencies and . The agency interfaces can also perform conversion of the data from the extractor into an agency specific format.

In order to utilize the media inventory service each respective agency and can include a MIS application interface API indicated at and respectively. Thus each respective agency and can employ a corresponding API to extract inventory that has been targeted for the respective agency as well as request or send other information from or to the MIS . Each API can provide access to the same functions of the MIS. That is a single API can be designed to provide a plurality of different agencies with access to the MIS core functionality. Alternatively it will be understood that different API s may be programmed to control access to a particular set of functions and methods which can be varied to provide multiple levels of service.

The media inventory service can also include a request processor that is programmed to process requests from each of the respective agencies and . Thus a given agency or can employ its respective API or to place a request for one or more advertising spot into the avails that have been tagged for the respective agency. The request processor receives the request from the agency which includes a selected set of attributes. The request processor processes the request and sends the processed request to the management adapter system . The management adapter system invokes a stored procedure to place the request into the media inventory of the media management system for the spot identified in the request. The request processor and the management adapter system can cooperate to ensure that the request for the spot being booked by the agency is in the appropriate format and includes the necessary fields required by the management system . The media management system can also provide a message to each of the agencies and to acknowledge that a request for a given spot has been placed and entered into the media inventory of the media management system. This message can be provided through the MIS or it can be triggered by the request and sent via other means e.g. email a message service or the like .

It is to be understood that the request from a given agency or can include a different set of information from the information that is ultimately stored into the inventory structure of the media management system. Accordingly the MIS can include mapping data such as can define a set attributes and fields and a corresponding format for inventory data that is to be written to particular media inventory of the media management system . The mapping data can also provide a unique identifier for the inventory provider as well as a particular IP address e.g. PO Box for accessing the media management system to facilitate extraction of the media inventory and placing such requests into each media management system. The mapping data can also identify a corresponding automation system that is employed for the distribution of media as scheduled by each media management system . The request processor can also store relevant information from each request in the mapping data to facilitate filtering and reporting as run information as described herein.

The automation system is programmed and configured to control distribution of media based upon the inventory and scheduling information provided by the media management system . Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the management system and the automation system can be implemented separately or be integrated into a corresponding platform such as traffic and automation product offerings in the H CLASS platform commercially available from Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. and its affiliated companies. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate other platforms or combinations of systems that can be implemented together to provide for the media management and automation functions for use in the system .

The automation system can provide a set of as run information that identifies details concerning each unit of inventory media that has been distributed over a given media. However the full as run information generated by the automation system has more information than is needed by the respective agencies and . Additionally there are business reasons why inventory owners may not want such full set of as run information to be made available to the agencies. The automation system can provide the as run information to the MIS through a corresponding automation adapter system . The media inventory service includes an as run reporting method that is programmed to filter the full set of as run information from the automation system and provide a redacted set of as run information that is relevant to each respective agency and .

The as run information from the automation system typically does not identify which agency and booked a particular inventory spot. Accordingly the as run reporting method can employ the mapping data to ascertain which as run data correspond to inventory spots requested by each agency. As mentioned above for example the request processor can store spot identifying data and agency identifying data into the mapping data for each request placed by the agencies and . The as run reporting method thus can employ this mapping to implement a filter to sort agency specific as run data relevant for each of the respective agencies and . The agency as run data can be sent to or otherwise be made available to each of the respective agencies and . In this way the inventory owner can remain in control of the full as run information generated by the each automation system and still provide each agency and with relevant as run information to spots that it has booked.

The automation adapter system can include any number of adapters according to the number of different types of automation systems. For instance a given automation system can automatically distribute media content for one or more channel as scheduled via a given traffic system in the media management system . An inventory owner can employ different types of automation systems from a variety of different manufacturers each of which may require a different adapter that is programmed to access the as run information. Thus the automation adapter system is extensible to include adapters that can be added or removed to accommodate any combination of automation systems that may be utilized by the respective inventory owners.

For example each of the traffic systems can be programmed to provide for one or more of traffic management billing and inventory analysis operations management business monitoring rights management or other functions relevant to the scheduling distribution or monitoring of media or the business associated with such media. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the MIS can be utilized in conjunction with a variety of commercial traffic systems such as the sales traffic and billing software products available from Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. as well as commercially available and proprietary products from other entities. Each of the adapters thus is programmed e.g. as an API or logic to provide for access to selected methods and functions of a respective one of the traffic systems and .

Each of the traffic systems and includes a set of media inventory and which corresponds to the set of avails or inventory spots for each channel supported by the traffic system. Each of the traffic systems and also includes a mechanism such as a user interface and which can be utilized by the inventory owner e.g. an authorized user to tag or otherwise identify a set of inventory spots or avails that are available to a given agency.

The media inventory and for each traffic system can be stored in memory and implemented as a database system such as implemented according to a relational model or other database model. Each of the adapters or thus can be programmed to call one or more predefined procedures for accessing the media inventory in a respective one of traffic systems or . Those skilled in the art will understand appreciate various types of stored procedures that may be available for performing functions which functions and procedures may vary according to the database system used to store the media inventory and in each traffic system and . For instance the adapters and can employ stored procedures to retrieve result sets from the media inventory and in the traffic systems and . Additionally the adapters and can call stored procedures to modify the media inventory and such as in response to a request from a given agency as described herein. Each of the adapters and can also include mapping functions and that are programmed to ensure that data sent to each respective traffic systems and has the proper format and syntax.

An inventory owner can define or assign a set of one or more channels that each agency is afforded rights to a further selected subset of spots. The channels and the number and or position of spots can be agreed upon a priori between each agency and the inventory owner. Thus a selected subset of the media inventory or in a set of one or more predetermined channels or schedules can be tagged by the inventory owner via the respective user interface or . The traffic systems and can publish or make available to the MIS which channels or schedules can include spots for each given agency. More than one agency can be afforded access to the same channel although typically only a single agency will be afforded access to a given spot. The set channels available to a given agency can be stored in memory associated with the MIS such as in client mapping data .

The mapping data can define relationships of data objects and data requirements for each of the traffic systems and to control access to the media inventory and for each of a plurality of agencies. In the example of the mapping data includes agency data indicated at AGENCY  through AGENCY Q where Q is a positive integer denoting the number of agencies that have access to one or more of the traffic systems and via the MIS . At least a portion of the mapping data e.g. data object that defines relationships between agencies and traffic systems and automation systems can be set for each agency that is to have access to media inventory such as via the user interface and of the respective traffic systems and . Thus mapping data can be defined for each agency across a plurality of different traffic systems which may correspond to any number of inventory owners. Other mechanism for programming the mapping data can be provided via the MIS such as an MIS manager. The MIS thus can utilize the mapping data to control access by the agencies to the media inventory and in each of the traffic systems and . The mapping data can also identify other parameters that facilitate and control the availability and publication of the inventory to a given agency.

The MIS system also includes an extraction engine . The extraction engine includes a get avails method that can be invoked by a respective agency through its appropriate API. Alternatively or additionally the get avails method can be programmed to run at a predetermined time during the day periodically or intermittently which timing parameters can be fixed or be programmable such as through the API of a given agency. Alternatively the timing can be set by an associated traffic system. The extraction engine employs agency identifier data to control requests for each given agency to the traffic system through the adapter system . The agency identifier can correspond to a predefined identifier e.g. the tag data that is associated with spots in the media inventory that is uniquely associated with each given agency. For instance the agency identifier for a given agency can be employed as an index to the mapping data to obtain a set of information that can be employed to construct a query to one or more of the traffic systems and . The particular traffic systems to which the query or other stored procedure is sent can be defined in the agency data and for each respective agency.

As mentioned above the agency data and can also define a set of one or more channels or schedules to which a given agency might have access to for each respective traffic system and . The get avails method thus sends a request to one or more adapters and to access media inventory and in one or more traffic systems. The adapter system can issue a call to a corresponding stored procedure to query the media inventory database and retrieve a result set that includes the selected subset inventory data that has been made available to each respective agency by means of the tagging.

The extraction engine thus receives the set of available spots e.g. avails from one or more traffic systems and via the adapter system . The extraction engine includes a converter method that is programmed to place the set of avails from the result set into an appropriate format for use by a given agency. The format can be a generic format globally applicable to all agencies. Alternatively different agency specific formats could be used such as based on agency data and for each agency. The extraction engine in turn provides the spot data to a given agency indicated at . The spot data can be provided in the form of a file or a set of files that includes data that defines the selected subset of inventory spots that have been made available to the respective agency. The file can include respective spots from across one or more traffic system which may further be controlled by any number of one or more inventory owners. The spot data thus can be sent to the appropriate web agency as a response through the agency s its API or by an agreed upon messaging protocol.

Each agency thus can receive a set of available inventory that it can sell to third parties or otherwise dispose of such as by placing its own inventory content. It is to be understood that an agency is not required to request a spot to be booked to each unit of media inventory that is made available to such agency. The number channels and the amount and position of such inventory in the channel can be set out in an agreement between each agency and the inventory owner for example. A particular web agency can provide a spot request to the MIS through its API. A request processor of the MIS receives the spot request processes the request so that one or more requests can be sent to the appropriate traffic system or traffic systems. The request processor can include a converter that formats the request from the agency into one or more request having a predetermined format that can be sent to one or more traffic systems and .

For example the spot request from a given agency can include an agency identifier e.g. the tag data that uniquely identifies the corresponding to the agency that provided the request as well as data that describes a spot of media inventory and identifies or includes the advertising content for such spot. The converter further may employ the mapping data to ascertain the requirements for media inventory requests to each traffic system and . Thus the converter can employ the agency data or for a given agency to convert the spot request into one or more request configured according to the requirements of the traffic system or to which it will be placed.

The request processor also includes a publish method that is programmed to send the one or more request encoded in the spot request to the traffic systems. The particular form of the request and destination address for each request further can be defined in the mapping data . For instance the agency identifier for a given spot request can be employed to retrieve a set of parameters to control how the publish method constructs the requests including identifying a destination traffic system for each request as well as other information need to route the request to the correct media inventory spot. The request processor can also perform validation of each request such as by confirming that the spot identified in a request is commensurate with one of the spots that was made available to such agency in the agency spot data . Alternatively or additionally validation can be performed by the traffic systems and .

Referring back to the publish method publishes each converted request to the respective traffic system s via the adapter system . The adapter system thus sends a request to one or more adapters and to access media inventory and in one or more traffic systems. For instance each of the adapters and can issue a call to a corresponding stored procedure to change the attributes for one or more spots of media inventory database according to the spot requests issued by the agency. As mentioned above each of the adapters and can employ a mapping function programmed to structure and arrange the spot data being stored in the media inventory according to specification requirements of the media inventory and for each traffic system. It is to be understood and appreciated that in one embodiment the agency spot request can correspond to a request for booking a spot. Additionally or alternatively the request can correspond to an actual offer to purchase the identified spot which can be accepted automatically or manually by the inventory owner.

While ideally advertisements are played out according to the schedule set by the traffic system and in practice there can exist discrepancies between what is actually played by the automation system and what is scheduled to play by the traffic systems and . Accordingly one or more automation system is utilized to distribute the media inventory based on scheduling information for one or more channels of a respective traffic system. In response to media distribution the automation system also provides full as run information data for each advertising spot that is distributed e.g. broadcast to an audience .

The as run information can be provided in the form of a log file or a message for a particular channel or set of channels supported by the automation system. The full as run information includes information e.g. attributes that identifies the channel the inventory owner the actual time and date the content was played as well as other information associated with actual spot of media content. Status information can also be associated with the as run data which status characterizes the whether there was any discrepancy between what was scheduled and what was played. The status information can also identify the nature of the discrepancy if any.

The full as run data is provided through an adapter system . Since there can be any number of different types of automation systems adapter system includes an adapter for each type of automation system indicated as AD  through AD R where R is a positive integer denoting the number of different types of automation systems supported by the MIS . Thus each adapter is programmed to receive full as run data from a respective type of automation system and to reformat and arrange the data into a format to facilitate subsequent processing in the MIS .

The MIS also includes a reporting module that is programmed to provide each agency a modified set of as run information such as can be limited to a subset of as run information that is relevant to each given agency. The reporting module includes a mapping function and a filter that cooperate to determine what subset of the as run information is relevant to each agency and to provide agency specific as run data structures. A publishing method generates agency as run data for use by each agency based on the agency specific as run data provided by the filter . For instance the mapping function analyzes selected attributes from the as run data from a respective automation system.

The mapping function can employ the selected attributes to query the mapping data to determine which of a plurality of agencies if any had issued a request corresponding to the media content described in the full as run data . The results of the mapping can provide an agency identifier or other information that identifies which agency the as run information is to be provided. The as run filter can employ the agency identifier that has been associated with the as run data to construct one or more as run data structures for each respective agency subscribing to the MIS . The publishing method of the reporting module can publish the agency as run data for use by each respective agency which as run data can include the as run data for any number of one or more ads. The reporting module can provide the agency as run data to a given agency as a log file for each channel such as may be aggregated for the given agency over a predetermined time period. Alternatively the reporting module can provide the as run data in response to a request from the agency.

An as run status object can also be associated with each as run entity object to describe the nature of any discrepancy if any about the media that was scheduled and that was actually distributed. As one example the status enumeration for the as run object can include an indication of any one or more of the following status indicators aired without discrepancy technical difficulty did not air aired with duration discrepancy aired with content discrepancy preempted joined in progress inserted by operator missing content or unknown. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate other attributes that can be employed to represent as run information or its status for use in the MIS according to an aspect of the invention.

Additionally various ways can be implemented to control the amount of data and the frequency at which the agency as run data is provided to each given agency which control can be fixed for all agencies or be programmable according to agency requirements. Additionally the agency as run data can be provided in a generic format for all agencies or such data can be customized according to the requirements of each respective agency. The as run information thus can provide each agency with accurate information relating to each request that it has placed for media inventory. The agencies can utilize this information to ascertain details relating to the distribution of content for a spot that was booked or for which an order has been placed . The agency for example can employ such information in an associated web service which can be automatically provided to such service as part of a reconciliation process such as in connection with selling the spot to a third party.

The object model also includes a provider object such as includes attributes that identify a traffic system that is part of the model . The attributes of the provider object for instance include a name for the traffic system e.g. LPOName and an address or access key e.g. LPOKey that can be employed as a means for accessing the corresponding traffic system. One or more instances of a channel object is associated with the provider object to identify a set of one or more channels accessible to a given agency identified by an agency object . The channel object for example includes a plurality of enumerated attributes that identify each channel for a given provider e.g. traffic system that is to be accessible to the associated agency. For example the channel attributes can include a channel name e.g. Name a channel description e.g. Description an identifier for the system on which the channel exists e.g. SystemID and a time zone offset e.g. TZOffset .

The object model includes an automation object that identifies one or more automation system that provide as run information for the agency identified in an instance of the object model. Thus the MIS can employ the automation object to determine the source s of as run information for each respective agency. An instance of the automation object can be dependent on the attributes for a provider object since a given automation system can support selected channels of a given traffic system.

The agency object identifies a given agency for which the model has been created by the inventory owner. The particular attribute of the agency object can vary according to the type of provider or traffic system identified by the provider object . For example one or more traffic system can include a break characteristic attribute that is associated with each avail. This attribute can be utilized by the inventory owner e.g. via a user interface to tag the avail with an agency identifier so as to make the spot available to the identified agency. Thus an of the agency object can be provided and programmed with the identifier for a given agency for which the spot is being made available. For instance the inventory extractor of the MIS can employ the contents of a given instance of the agency object for constructing queries to the traffic systems identified by the provider object for each respective agency.

As a further example with reference back to for a given agency the extractor of the MIS e.g. the extractor of or extraction engine of can access an instance of the object model in conjunction with performing the get avails method for the given agency. The extractor thus employs information from the instance of the object model for sending a corresponding request to a respective adapter corresponding to the traffic system as identified by an instance of the provider object . The adapter can call a stored procedure to process the request from the extractor which stored procedure can identify an enumerated set of one or more channels as provided by an instance of the channel object . The called procedure accesses the media inventory of each identified traffic system as provided by an instance of the provider object and returns a selected subset of media inventory spots that have been tagged with the agency identifier for the given agency as provided by an instance of the agency object can be returned to the extractor. The extractor thus can provide a set of agency specific data to the given agency. A similar process can be completed for multiple agencies which may be performed sequentially or concurrently.

Those skilled in the art will understand various types of memory devices that can be utilized to store the instructions corresponding to the MIS . Additionally the processor can be implemented as any number of one or more processors that is coupled to the memory via a bus or any connection either directly or indirectly for executing the instructions and storing corresponding data associated with the methods being performed. The number of processors the types of memory and the communication interface between the memory and processor s generally will vary depending on the server architecture. The MIS is equally applicable to and may run on any practically any type server.

At a high level the MIS can be considered to include core MIS functions and adapter logic functions . The core MIS functions can correspond to any combination of one or more of the extraction functionality e.g. the extractor of or extraction engine of the request processing function e.g. the request processor of of the reporting function e.g. the as run reporting of and the as run reporting module of as well as the interrelationships and data structures utilized to support such functionality.

The adapter logic functions can correspond to any combination of the various adapters and interfaces that enable the core MIS to communicate with the other applications and services in the system . Similar to as described herein the system can include any number of one or more traffic systems and any number of one or more automation systems . In the example of the server is connected to each of the traffic systems and the automation systems via a network . This network can be a local area network a wide area network such as including the internet as well as include a combination of local and wide area networks. Alternatively it will be appreciated that the server can be directly connected to or implemented in a common server system with one or more of the traffic systems and one or more of the automation systems . Thus there exists a plurality of communication architectures that can be implemented which are equally applicable to the system . As described herein the adapter logic functions thus can be programmed to provide for access to each of such traffic systems and to each of such automation systems . The adapter logic functions can be extensible to accommodate changes e.g. additions or deletions in the types of traffic systems automation systems and agencies.

The adapter logic systems also provide access to and from one or more agency servers indicated at AGENCY SERVICE and AGENCY SERVICE N where N is a positive integer denoting the number of agency services having access to the MIS e.g. via subscription . For example each of the agency services and can correspond to a server executing instructions for performing web services such as may include the sale of media inventory spots. Each service and also includes an API and respectively which specifies an interface and the behavior of the core MIS functionality that can be implemented by each of the respective agency services. It will be appreciated that a single API can be designed for use by each agency to support access to the core MIS by the services and and thereby provide access to various different traffic systems and automation systems.

By way of further example any number of one or more other users can be connected to the internet for accessing services and or provided by each respective agency. For example the agency services and can provide web services programmed for selling the selected subset of inventory spots that the MIS has made available to each of the agency servers and . This selected inventory can be aggregated from across a plurality of different traffic systems for a plurality of media inventory owners such as described herein. The web services and of each agency further can be programmed to automatically or manually in response to a user input send requests e.g. corresponding to the spot request of to the MIS via the agency API or such as in response to requests or offers from the other user s . As one example one or more of the web services and can offer the spots for sale in an online auction based format. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that each agency service can be programmed according to any commercial strategy or business model to sell the selected subset of spots made available by the MIS to each respective server. For instance an agency can also utilize other mechanisms e.g. sales persons catalogs third party web services and the like to market the media inventory.

Each automation system generates as run information that is provided to an associated traffic system such as by message provided via the network . The as run information is also utilized by the MIS such as for reporting agency specific as run data to each of the respective agency services and . As described herein the core MIS can include an as run reporting module e.g. the as run reporting of the reporting module of that is programmed to filter the full as run information from a respective automation system. The filtering can be performed based on data stored in the memory representing requests for advertising spots that have been placed by each respective service. The core MIS in turn provides each respective service and with a set of agency specific as run information which can be utilized by the web services for reconciliation purposes with the purchasers of such spots.

A MIS manager can also be associated with the MIS for programming operating parameters for the MIS. For instance the MIS manager can be utilized to program mapping data e.g. including a core data objects of . Additionally or alternatively the MIS manager can provide a mechanism for programming additional adapters such as the management system adapters automation system adapters agency adapters or any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art may understand additional feature that can be programmed via the MIS manager based on the teachings contained herein.

In the example of each of the agency services and communicate with the MIS via a wide area network such as the Internet . It will be understood that the example of the network architecture depicted in is provided by way of example and not intended to be exhaustive of the possible approaches that an agency can access the MIS nor is it to be considered exhaustive for providing communication between the MIS and the traffic systems and between the MIS and the automation systems .

In view of the foregoing it will be understood and appreciated that the MIS can be implemented as part of a platform to integrate disparate media systems. By using the MIS each agency can be provided access to certain media inventory which it can resell. However the inventory maintains control over its full inventory. Additionally each agency can be afforded access to as run information for the spots each respective agency has placed requests e.g. spot bookings or orders without requiring that the inventory owner reveal details of the full as run information for each channel. As a result the inventory owner can maintain control of sensitive and proprietary information while creating additional revenue opportunities by selectively releasing a portion of its existing and available media inventory.

What have been described above are examples and embodiments of the invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the invention but one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present invention are possible. Accordingly the invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. In the claims unless otherwise expressly indicated the article a is to refer to one or more than one. 

