---

title: System, method, and software application for enabling a user to view and interact with a visual map in an external application
abstract: The present invention provides a system, method, and software program for enabling a user to view and interact with a visual map in an external application. According to one embodiment of the invention, a visual mapping application creates a file with (i) visual map data and (ii) software code capable of being executed by an external application to display the visual map and provide select visual mapping application in the external application. In one embodiment, such functionality includes the ability to expand and collapse map topics, scroll the map, zoom in and out, follow hypertext links in the map, find content in the map, and print the map. The created file can be thought of as a “visual map player” in that an external application can “play” the created file, resulting in a live map in the external application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396455&OS=09396455&RS=09396455
owner: Mindjet LLC
number: 09396455
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081110
---
This invention relates generally to visual mapping systems and more particularly to enabling a user to view and interact with a visual map in an external application.

A visual map is a diagram that represents ideas and or information in topics. Examples of visual maps are mind maps topic maps semantic networks and concept maps. Visual maps are increasingly used to help people generate classify and or organize ideas and information and to see such ideas and information in a hierarchical visual layout. Visual maps are used for project management work flow analysis organizational charts and other purposes.

Users typically create visual maps using proprietary visual mapping software. Mindjet LLC S MINDMANGER software is an example of such software.

One limitation users of visual maps currently face is that in order for a user to share a visual map with other users the other users have to have visual mapping software capable of opening and interacting with the visual map. While current technology allows visual maps to be saved as PDF files such files are static files. A user viewing the PDF file is not able to interact with the map e.g. expand and collapse topics .

Therefore there is a desire to be able to share visual maps with users that do not have a proprietary visual mapping application where the recipients of the map can interact with the visual map using an external application i.e. a non visual mapping application . For example it would be desirable to enable a user to view and interact with a map in PDF file or in a web browser.

The present invention provides a system method and software program for enabling a user to view and interact with a visual map in an external application. According to one embodiment of the invention a visual mapping application executing on a computer receives a request to create a visual map file that can be executed within an external application. The visual mapping application then retrieves the applicable visual map data. Such visual map data may be obtained from a map stored by the visual mapping application or it may be obtained from an external source such as a web service. The visual mapping application creates a file that includes both the visual map data and software code with visual mapping application functionality.

The software code in the created file is capable of being executed in an external application to display the visual map and provide select visual mapping functionality. The created file can be thought of as a visual map player in that an external application can play the created file resulting in a live map in the external application. The ways in which a user can interact with the visual mapping application can vary greatly and depend on the functionality built into the software code included in the created file. In the preferred embodiment such functionality includes the ability to expand and collapse map topics scroll the map zoom in and out follow hypertext links in the map find content in the map and print the map. Other types of functionality that can be built into the created file include the ability to edit a visual map including adding deleting and moving topics.

In an alternate embodiment of the invention the created file does not include all the visual map data necessary to display the visual map. Instead it includes a link to a network address from which visual map data can be obtained such as a network address associated with a web service or a visual mapping server. This enables the created file to obtain the most recent version of the visual map without altering the created file.

In another alternate embodiment the created file includes an application programming interface to the external application. The external application generates visual map data and initializes the created file with the visual map data. Software code in the created file displays the data in a visual map within the external application.

The present invention provides a system and method for enabling a user to view and interact with a visual map in an external application. As used herein an external application is any application that is not a visual mapping application. A visual mapping application such as Mindjet LLC s MINDMANAGER is an application specifically designed to provide visual mapping functionality. Examples of external applications include PDF applications e.g. ADOBE ACROBAT word processing applications e.g. MICROSOFT WORD spreadsheet applications e.g. MICROSOFT EXCEL slide presentation applications e.g. MICROSOFT POWERPOINT computer aided drawing applications e.g. MICROSOFT VISIO and web browsers.

The software code in the created file is capable of being executed in an external application to display the visual map and provide select visual mapping functionality. The created file can be thought of as a visual map player in that an external application can play the created file resulting in a live i.e. non static map in the external application. Consequently the created file is referred to herein as a player file. The ways in which a user can interact with the visual mapping application can vary greatly and depend on the functionality built into the software code included in the player file. In the preferred embodiment such functionality includes the ability to expand and collapse map topics scroll the map zoom in and out follow hypertext links in the map find content in the map and print the map. Other types of functionality that can be built into the player file include the ability to edit a visual map including adding deleting and moving topics.

The software developer compiles the visual mapping code and creates a template file that includes the compiled code . The template file includes a space for visual map data. Such space is referred to herein as the data payload. The compiled code will act upon map data stored in the data payload.

In response to the visual mapping application receiving a request from either a user or other software application to make a live version of a visual map in an external application format the visual mapping application creates a new file i.e. a player file from the template file step . Specifically it makes a copy of the template file and imports data for such visual map into the data payload of the newly created player file.

The visual mapping application then either i makes the player file available to a user or requesting software program step or ii embeds the player file into a file type that is compatible with the external application and makes the latter file available to a user or requesting software program step . For example if the external application is a web browser the player file may be embedded in a web page e.g. an html file . If the external application is a PDF player then the player file may be embedded in a PDF file. The player file also can be embedded in other types of files such as word processing documents e.g. .doc or .docx files spreadsheet documents e.g. .xls or .xlsx files slide presentations e.g. .ppt files and generic computer automated files e.g. .vsd files .

In an alternate embodiment the method of as well as steps in need not be performed by a visual mapping application. In other words another type of application can perform these steps as long as such application has access to visual mapping code that it such application can insert into a player file.

In the visual mapping code includes a User Interface Module a Rendering Module a Data Module and a Data Payload section . Visual map data is a loaded into the Data Payload Section . When the visual mapping code is executed the Data Module specifies how data in the Data Payload is translated into a visual map. The Rendering Module is responsible for displaying the map in accordance with the Data Module within the external application. The User Interface Module enables the user to interface with the visual map. For example if a user clicks on a branch in the map to expand or collapse it the User Interface Module provides such information to the Rendering Module which adjusts the map display accordingly.

In one embodiment the visual mapping code in the player file is written in a software language that enables features such as animation and vector graphics. In the preferred embodiment the visual mapping code is written using ADOBE FLEX libraries and ADOBE ACTIONSCRIPT software language. In such embodiment the player file created after the visual mapping code is compiled is a SWF file. A SWF file can be executed by many types of external applications including PDF players and web browsers. In alternate embodiment the visual mapping code is written using MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT or Moonlight which is an open source implementation of MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT. In another alternate embodiment the visual mapping code is written using Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML .

In system a user can create visual map from a visual mapping desktop client or a visual mapping web client . These visual mapping clients are served by a visual mapping server . Mindjet LLC s MINDJET CONNECT is an example of a visual mapping server application. After a user creates or edits a visual map the visual mapping client or sends the map data to the visual mapping server which stores the data in a file system or a database . A visual map can be stored as a file or the topics in a map can be stored in individually in a database as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 001 533 titled System and Method for Enabling a User to Search and Retrieve Individual Topics in a Visual Mapping System which was filed on Dec. 12 2007 and which is incorporated by reference as if fully disclosed herein.

In system the template file with the visual mapping code referenced in is stored in a file system database . When a user wants to create a player file the user s visual mapping client informs the visual mapping server of the user s request. The visual mapping server creates the player file based on the template file with the visual mapping code and the visual map data. The mapping server sends the visual mapping client the player file either by itself or as part of another file such as a web page or PDF document .

In one embodiment the player file includes a link to a web service associated with a search domain i.e. GOOGLE YAHOO etc. . The visual mapping functionality within such player file enables a user to enter search terms into the visual map displayed by the player file in the external application. After a user enters search term the software code in the player file makes a call to the web service with the search terms and subsequently receives search results from the web service. The software code in the player file then display the search results in a visual map. A method for searching within visual maps is described in more detail in U.S. Patent Application titled System Method and Software Application for Enabling a User to Search an External Domain within a Visual Mapping Interface having inventors William J. Creekbaum Michael B. Jetter and Steven Bashford and filed on Nov. 10 2008 the contents of which are incorporated by reference as if fully disclosed herein. Also a method for displaying data from a web service in a visual map is described in U.S. Patent Application titled System Method and Software Application for Displaying Data from a Web Service in a Visual Map having inventors William J. Creekbaum Michael B. Jetter and Steven Bashford and filed on Nov. 10 2008.

When the player file is run within the external application the Network Module retrieves the link from the Data Payload section and requests visual map data from a service service at the link. When the Network Module receives the requested visual map data from the server service at the link it loads such data into the Data Payload section . In the preferred embodiment the visual map data returned by the web service or a visual mapping server is in XML format although the invention is not limited to XML format. Other text based formats can be used e.g. JSON as well as proprietary binary formats.

In another alternate embodiment of the invention the external application generates visual map data and inserts the data into a player file. This embodiment is described with respect to . Referring to this embodiment involves creating a file a player file that includes i software code with visual mapping functionality that can be executed by an external application and ii an application programming interface API to an external application step . The player file is subsequently launched in the external application step and the external application generates visual map data for the player file . Via the API the external application provides the visual map data to the player file and the software code in the player file displays a visual map in the external application with the data . The external application may provide visual map data to the player file only upon launching the player file or alternately it may continuously frequently periodically or occasionally update the visual map data while the player file is open within the external application. For example if the external application provides the player file with stock quotes the external application may continuously update the visual map with new stock quotes while the applicable stock market is open.

Like the visual mapping code in visual mapping code has a User Interface Module a Rendering Module and a Data Model a Data Payload section . In addition the visual mapping code includes an Application Programming Interface API that interfaces with the external application. The external application initiates the player file by sending visual mapping data to the API . The API loads visual map data into the Data Payload module .

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Accordingly the above disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative and not limiting of the invention.

