---

title: Method using multiple layer annealing cap for fabricating group III-nitride semiconductor device structures and devices formed thereby
abstract: A method of preventing the escape of nitrogen during the activation of ion implanted dopants in a Group III-nitride semiconductor compound without damaging the Group III-nitride semiconductor comprising: depositing a first layer of another Group III-nitride that acts as an adhesion layer; depositing a second layer of a Group III-nitride that acts as a mechanical supporting layer; said first and second layers forming an annealing cap to prevent the escape of the nitrogen component of the Group III-nitride semiconductor; annealing the Group III-nitride semiconductor at a temperature in the range of approximately 1100-1250° C.; and removing the first and second layers from the Group III-nitride semiconductor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07977224&OS=07977224&RS=07977224
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07977224
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081203
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates broadly to semiconductor devices and semiconductor device fabrication and in particular to methods for doping semiconductor layers materials or components.

As is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art annealing is a heat treatment process wherein a material is heated to a suitable temperature for a period of time and then cooled. In the semiconductor industry wafer materials such as silicon are annealed so that dopant atoms such as boron phosphorus or arsenic etc. can diffuse into substitutional positions in the crystal lattice resulting in changes in the electrical properties of the semiconducting material.

The introduction of dopants in a semiconductor is commonly achieved by ion implantation. Dopant ions such as boron phosphorus or arsenic etc are generally created from a gas source. When implanted in a semiconductor each dopant atom can create a charge carrier in the semiconductor hole or electron depending on if it is a p type or n type dopant thus modifying the conductivity of the semiconductor in its vicinity.

Semiconductor devices made from silicon or other semiconductor materials are routinely made with ion implantation because they can be made with planar technology. Ohmic contacts with a lower contact resistance can be fabricated and the doping concentration and profiles can be more closely controlled. The dopants can be electrically activated routinely by heating the silicon or other semiconductor material in a non oxidizing atmosphere to a temperature of roughly 1000 C. Being able to ion implant dopants has many advantages such as enabling more planar technology and lowering the contact resistance. Implantation activation in the III V semiconductors such as gallium arsenide GaAs or gallium nitride GaN is more difficult than with elemental semiconductor materials because the group V element e.g. arsenic or nitrogen has a relatively large vapor pressure and it will evaporate preferentially at the temperatures required to activate the implants. If left unprotected during the activation anneal the device structure will be destroyed or significantly degraded. This problem has been solved for GaAs by depositing a silicon nitride SiN layer that acts as an annealing cap for the annealing temperatures of 800 900 C. and prevents the arsenic As from escaping. The deposited layer can then be preferentially etched off of the GaAs with hydrofluoric acid without attacking the GaAs. This problem has also been solved for SiC using a graphite or AlN BN annealing cap to prevent the preferential evaporation of silicon.

SiNand SiOannealing caps for GaN have had only mixed success because they do not adhere well and can be punctured or blown off by the large nitrogen partial pressure that exists at the temperature required for activation. GaN cannot be routinely implanted because the nitrogen evaporates preferentially at the temperatures required to activate the implanted dopants. SiN cannot be used as an annealing cap for GaN because a higher activation temperatures are required 1200 C. b it does not adhere well to GaN and c it cannot withstand the higher N pressures as blow holes can form in SiNannealing cap.

Likewise sputtered or pulsed laser deposition PLD deposited ALN films have had mixed success because they do not adhere to the GaN surface making it possible for the nitrogen to escape at the elevated temperatures. Researchers have also attempted to rapid thermal anneal RTA their samples in the hope that the kinetics for the evaporation of N would be too slow for it to respond but considerable topological damage is created. Annealing under an Npressure that exceeds the partial pressure of Nin equilibrium with GaN is also extremely challenging given that the partial pressure is approximately 100 MPa at 1500 degrees K.

The single sputtered AlN film disclosed in the publication by J. C. Zolper et al. J. Electron. Mater. 27 179 1998 does not adhere well and it contains pores through which the N from the GaN can escape. As used herein sputtering is a process whereby atoms are ejected from a solid target material due to bombardment of the target by energetic ions. As used herein sputter deposition is a physical vapor deposition PVD method of depositing thin films by sputtering i.e. ejecting material from a target i.e. source which then deposits onto a substrate or layer.

The PLD deposited AlN film disclosed in K. A. Jones et al. J. Mater. Sci. and Eng. B61 62 281 1999 hereby incorporated by reference did not adhere sufficiently as well as is shown in . Epitaxial AlN films grown by metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD or molecular beam epitaxy MBE adhere better but they crack due to the lattice mismatch between the GaN and AlN as shown in . The single epitaxial AlN film grown at the normal growth temperature for AlN films approximately 1100 C. as disclosed in the publication by C. J. Eiting et al Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 3875 1998 did not provide good coverage because it cracked since it was not sufficiently pliable and because it does not have the strain relief mechanisms that a low temperature AlN film provides. The single AlN film deposited at low temperature by molecular beam epitaxy MBE disclosed by J. A. Fellows et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 1930 2002 is not strong enough to withstand the relatively large N pressures from the GaN.

Accordingly there exists a need for an annealing cap that has better adherence that is mechanically stronger and still capable of completely covering the sample that is stable at temperatures in excess of 1200 C. and that is capable of being selectively etched off at the end of the anneal.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes an annealing cap formed by the lower temperature approximately 600 C. deposition of a thin in the range of approximately 30 to 130 nm aluminum nitride AlN film as a pliable adhesion layer and a thicker at least one half micron polycrystalline AlN film to give the cap sufficient strength to withstand the large N pressure as illustrated in . It is thermally stable at the predetermined annealing temperatures and it can be selectively etched off with warm potassium hydroxide KOH after the anneal procedure has been completed. The advantages of an annealing cap constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention include providing complete coverage the annealing cap does not have pores that penetrate to the GaN surface the cap adheres better so that decomposition of the GaN does not occur around the edges and the thicker sputtered or pulse laser deposited polycrystalline film gives the annealing cap greater mechanical strength to better withstand the relatively high N pressures.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an etched region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Embodiments of the present invention may be particularly well suited for use in nitride based devices such as Group III nitride based HEMTs. As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconducting compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . As used herein the terminology Group III N also refers to ternary and quaternary compounds such as AlGaN and AlInGaN. As is well understood by those in this art the Group III elements can combine with nitrogen to form binary e.g. GaN ternary e.g. AlGaN AlInN and quaternary e.g. AlInGaN compounds. These compounds all have empirical formulas in which one mole of nitrogen is combined with a total of one mole of the Group III elements. For example the formula AlGaN where 0 x

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is an annealing cap composed of preferable an 80 nm AlN layer in the range of 30 to 130 nm deposited by MOCVD at a temperature in the range of 450 to 650 C. and a thicker layer at least one half micron deposited at approximately 500 C. The 500 C. temperature is not critical however the density generally increases with temperature. The first layer gives the cap good adhesion and complete coverage while the thicker layer gives it strength. It can withstand annealing temperatures of 1250 C. for at least 30 minutes which is near the temperature of 1285 C. where the Npartial pressure equals the yield strength of AlN 300 MPa. This is demonstrated in where scanning electron microscope SEM micrographs of the annealing cap after 30 min anneals at 1100 1150 1200 1250 and 1300 C. are displayed.

Compounds with properties similar to AlN can be used to practice the principles of the invention. Generally speaking the annealing cap of the present invention comprises the formation of two separate layers a first adhesion layer or cap formed of a compound which adheres to the GaN and a second layer that provides good mechanical strength. is a schematic illustration of a preferred embodiment of the present invention showing a semiconductor configuration or assembly comprising a galium nitride semiconductor layer or base having thereon an annealing cap comprising a first adherence layer A comprising AlN and a thicker layer B which provides mechanical strength and also comprises AlN. The term cap as used herein may be in the form of a layer and is not meant to imply any particular shape or form as the term cap as used herein may be of a variety of shapes and forms including circular rectangular square etc. Although a substantially constant thickness is depicted in the thickness or cross section may also vary from one end of the cap to another. Inasmuch as the same compound in the preferred embodiment AlN may be used to form both the adhesion layer and the mechanical strength layer coalescence may take place to transform the two layers into one without departing from the scope of the present invention. Similarly multiple layers in excess of two could be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.

With respect to the adhesion layer i.e. the low temperature approximately 600 C. AlN layer deposited by MOCVD that is used primarily for adhesion a material that can adhere to the GaN surface may be substituted for AlN without departing from the principles of the present invention. For example a material such as AlGaN could be utilized provided that the percentage of gallium is such that the AlGaN composition is different enough from the gallium nitride layer upon which it is deposited so that it may layer be selectively etched off or otherwise removed. Likewise impurities may be present in the AlN which do not impact the adherence properties without departing from the scope of the present invention. The AlN adhesion layer is described in the preferred embodiment as being epitaxial AlN films grown by MOCVD. However other epitaxial processes such molecular beam epitaxy or other methods which provide enhanced adherence may be utilized without departing from the scope of the present invention. The term epitaxy as used herein encompasses varieties of epitaxy such as heteroepitaxy a kind of epitaxy performed where a crystalline film grows on a crystalline substrate or film of another material. Such technology is often applied to growing crystalline films of materials of which single crystals cannot be obtained and to fabricating integrated crystalline layers of different materials.

With respect to the thicker approximately one half micron or more sputtered AlN film provided to give the cap sufficient strength to withstand the large N pressure nitrides other than AlN may be utilized that have sufficiently strength characteristics without departing from the scope of the present invention. Generally speaking silicon nitride and gallium arsenide are not as strong as AlN and hence not as desirable as AlN. The thicker sputtered AlN layer is used primarily for strength and because it won t decompose at the annealing temperatures used that could cause evaporation of the cap. Also AlN is not attacked chemically by the nitrogen or argon gases that are typically used in an annealing furnace. However any material that would not evaporate or be chemically attacked at these annealing temperatures could be used instead of the AlN e.g. high melting points oxides carbides and nitrides which are sufficiently strong and which can also be etched off. Tantalum nitride and titanium nitride possess the requisite strength characteristics but may prove to be more challenging than AlN with respect to adhesion qualities.

Transmission Electron Microscope TEM micrographs and their associated selective area diffraction SAD patterns in show that the adhesion layer is tightly and continuously bound to the GaN and the sputtered layer is composed of somewhat randomly oriented long thin grains. SEM micrographs of the GaN surface after the cap has been removed with a KOH etch shown in for films annealed at 1100 1150 1200 and 1250 C. for 30 min show that there is no evidence for the preferential evaporation of N that is often represented by the formation of a large number of hexagonally shaped thermal etch pits. Atomic force microscope AFM micrographs of the same surface in show that there are small but detectable differences in the structure of the annealed samples probably due to solid state diffusion.

With an of 4.15 10 K AlN is quite compatible with the GaN and it is also stronger and has a lower evaporation rate at a given temperature than SiOor SiN. Having the same crystal structure it also has the potential to adhere better and it can also be selectively etched off. See J. R. Mieham et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 67 1119 1995 . AlN caps have been deposited by sputtering see J. R. Mieham et al J. C. Zolper et al. and H. Yu et al Appl. Phys. Lett. 85 5254 2004 and by metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD see C. J. Eiting et al. E. Nogales et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 88 31902 2006 and X. A. Cao et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 229 1998 or molecular beam epitaxy MBE . see J. A. Fellows et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 1930 2002 and J. A. Fellows et al. Sol. State. Commun. 133 213 2005 .

The MOCVD films have been grown at the normal epitaxial growth temperature of 1100 C. either in situ before see C. J. Eiting et al. and E. Nogales et al. or after see X. A. Cao et al. the ion implantation. The MBE films were deposited in situ at 100 C. and the Si ions were implanted through them. show SEM micrographs of a a 200 nm thick PLD deposited AlN film annealed for 30 min at 1100 C. and b 80 nm thick AlN film grown epitaxially on GaN at 1100 C. respectively.

To obtain an AlN cap that had good adhesion an AlN layer was deposited at the same temperature as the deposited GaN nucleation layer when GaN films are grown i.e. 600 C. Note that the temperature of 600 C. is approximated and that temperatures at or near 600 C. may be utilized to achieve similar results without departing from the principles of the present invention.

To strengthen this cap a 1 m AlN film was sputter deposited on top of this low temperature LT layer. It can readily be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the dimensions of the sputter deposited layer are approximate and that the thickness may vary without departing from the principles of the present invention. Moreover techniques other than sputtering may be used to achieve the desired strengthening qualities obtained by the sputtering technique as is readily appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

As shown in the TEM has been used to examine the implant damage before and after the anneal as well as the substrate cap interface. As shown in the activation of the implants is studied by measuring the transport properties of the annealed samples subjected to different activation annealing temperatures T using a Hall effect and van der Pauw system. see H. Yu et al. IEEE Electron. Dev. Lett. 26 283 2005 .

Undoped GaN films were grown on sapphire substrates by MOCVD to a thickness of 2 m and then they were box implanted with Si to a concentration of 5 10or 1 10cmusing the following program shown in Table 1 as determined by TRIM calculations. Table 1 reveals the accelerating voltages and the doses used for implanting the Si.

Following the implant the wafers were cleaned and an 80 nm AlN film was grown on them by MOCVD at 600 C. This thin adhesion layer was then capped with a 1 m AlN film that was sputter deposited at 500 C. The 50 mm wafer was diced into samples 1 cm on a side which were annealed for 30 min in an RF heated furnace under an Natmosphere at a pressure of 400 Torr. After removing the samples from the furnace the cap topology was examined with an SEM and AFM. TEM cross sections were taken of an as deposited cap and one that was annealed at 1250 C. High resolution TEM HRTEM cross sections were also taken of the implanted GaN before and after an anneal at 1250 C. Samples were prepared for Hall measurements by forming ohmic contacts using a 100 1000 500 200 stack of Ti Al Ni Au annealed at 800 C. for 30 seconds.

SEM micrographs of the cap surface of the implanted samples annealed at 1100 1150 1200 1250 and 1300 C. are shown in where it is seen that there is no disruption in the surface until the annealing temperature reaches 1250 C. where a few cracks can be seen and the cap is virtually destroyed after the 1300 C. anneal. The probable cause for the destruction of the cap is the nitrogen escaping from the GaN it could simply have blown the AlN cap off or in escaping it left gallium behind that reacted with the AlN. In the pressure regime below 1000 bar the Npartial pressure P in equilibrium with GaN has a simple exponential relationship because it behaves like an ideal gas and it is given by the equation 8.927 10 where Pis given in bars and T is in K.

Using the above equation the temperature at which P 1000 bar 100 MPa the yield stress of GaN at 1000 C. is 1195 the temperature at which it would equal 125 MPa the fracture stress of GaN at 1000 C. is 1210 C. Since the partial pressure curve begins to deviate from the exponential relationship at 100 bar 25 C. could be added to these two temperatures. The highest temperature that the annealing cap could withstand is 1250 C. which is probably the highest temperature that any AlN cap can withstand because it has reached its theoretical limit.

The SEM micrographs of the surface of the GaN after the cap has been etched off are shown in . Specifically shows the GaN surface with the cap layers etched off of the sample that was implanted to 5 10cmand a was not annealed and was annealed at b 1100 c 1200 or d 1250 C. The only changes one sees is that a few hexagonal pits are formed when the samples are annealed and that they increase in size as Tincreases. These pits are probably thermal etch pits formed at micropipesas is described in S. K. Hong et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 77 82 2000 . There is no evidence that larger pits were formed due to the preferential evaporation of nitrogen.

Most of the activation annealing studies done by others in the prior art do not address the issue of surface damage to the GaN layer but those that do did not anneal their samples at temperatures higher than 1300 C. and they all observed some surface damage. Using a 140 nm SiNcap it was noted in Matsunaga et al. J. Appl. Phys. 95 2461 2004 . that hexagonal pits were formed in the surface of the GaN when they RTA annealed the sample to 1200 C. The pits were probably formed because the SiNdid not adhere well to the surface or that holes were formed in it when hydrogen a by product of the sputtering process was boiled off. Using a 500 nm SiOannealing cap Y. Nakano and T. Jimbo J. Appl. Phys. 92 3815 2002 observed gallium droplets on the surface of the GaN when they furnace annealed the sample for 5 min at 1300 C. This is likely due to the relatively poor adhesion of the SiO which was sputtered deposited at room temperature even if it was strong enough to withstand the force produced by the large partial pressure of N. As noted in C. J. Eiting et al. there was decomposition of the GaN beneath the cracks in the 50 nm thick MOCVD grown AlN cap and the surface roughness increased with the annealing time when the sample was annealed at 1150 C. Cracks were created in the AlN because it has a 2.4 lattice mismatch with GaN and it is much thicker than its critical thickness of 1 3 nm. See E. Bellet Amalric et al J. Appl. Phys. 95 1127 2004 . Even when the epitaxially grown AlN was only tens of nm thick it cracked as E. Nogales et al demonstrated and damage occurred beneath the cracks when the sample was annealed at 1200 C.

Shown in are cross section HRTEM micrographs of samples that were implanted to 10cmwith Si a before and b after a 1250 C. anneal for 30 min Although it is difficult to discern in the HRTEM micrographs in because of all of the dislocations that the GaN film contains one can still see that the stacking faults are larger in the sample annealed at 1250 C. than they are in the unannealed sample.

Direct comparisons often cannot be made with other work because single as opposed to box implants were made the dose is frequently quite high and the samples were RTA annealed. In Y. Irokawa et al. J. Appl. Phys. 97 83505 2005 a box implant was used the silicon concentration was 2.5 10cm and the sample was furnace annealed for 5 min at temperatures between 1100 1400 C. using an SiOcap. They show large increases in the percent activation between 1200 and 1250 C. and between 1250 and 1300 C. with the percent activation at 1300 C. being 60 . The percent activation continues to increase more slowly between 1300 and 1400 C. where it reaches 100 . Because no information about the quality of the GaN or the SiOcap was presented it cannot be ascertained as to whether or not the cap broke down in places and some nitrogen vacancies were formed and contributed to the carrier concentration. Given that the N partial pressure exceeded the fracture strength of the SiOfilm it is likely that they did. In an earlier work Irokawa et al used a similar set up that differed only in that the samples were RTA annealed and Tranged from 1000 1200 C. They found that the percent activation increased almost linearly with T and was 30 after the 1200 C. anneal when the annealing time was 2 min. They also demonstrated that the percent activation increased sublinearly with time from 12 30 at 1200 C. when the annealing time was increased from 0.5 2 min. Considering that the box implant concentration was 5.5 10cm these results are quite similar to ours. Nakano et al also used an SiOcap and annealed their samples for 5 min at temperatures between 1100 1300 C. but they used a single implant of 10cmat 65 keV. They determined that the activation was 50 after a 1300 C. anneal and that the activation increased sublinearly with time until t 300 sec where it plateaus. It is likely that nitrogen vacancies contribute to the conductivity in their samples at least after the 1300 C. anneal as they acknowledge that some gallium droplets were formed on the surface. Matsunaga et al also used only a single implant of 10cm at 150 keV and samples were annealed at temperatures between 800 1300 C. but their samples were RTA annealed with a SiNcap. They achieve activation percents of 79 86 at 1300 C. but again these results are suspect because some nitrogen had evaporated creating hexagonal pits in the surface. Using a thin AlN cap deposited by MBE at 100 C. see J. A. Fellows et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 1930 2002 . RTA annealed samples at temperatures from 1050 1350 C. that had been implanted once at 200 keV over the range of 10 5 10cm. They concluded that they obtained 100 activation for samples implanted to 10cmand annealed at 1350 C. but only 42 activation for samples implanted to 10cm. They attribute this unusual trend to silicon donors not being thermally activated into the conduction band at the low non degenerate concentration but the donor depth is too small to support this explanation. The issue is more complex with one of the complicating issues possibly being an incoherent cap at the higher annealing temperatures given that a thin low temperature deposited cap was not very strong. As reported by X. A. Cao et al. using a thicker sputtered AlN cap RTA annealed samples at temperatures from 1100 1500 C. that had been implanted once at 100 keV to 5 10cm. They concluded they obtained 100 activation annealing at 1400 C. but given the porosity of the cap it seems likely they could not have obtained this result without thermally damaging the GaN. The fact that the percent activation drops for the 1500 C. anneal supports this contention.

The mobility of the sample implanted to 5 10cmgenerally increases with the annealing temperature reaching a value of 240 cm V s after the 1250 C. anneal. Given that the dislocation concentration of our GaN films is in the mid 10cmrange this mobility compares quite favorably with the value of 250 300 cm V s for samples doped in situ to this concentration as determined both theoretically and experimentally see H. M. Ng et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 73 821 1998 and S. Nakamura et al J. Appl. Phys. 71 5543 1992 respectively For the sample implanted to 10cm the mobility generally decreases slowly as the annealing temperature increases suggesting that the increased ionized donor scattering slightly dominates the effects of reducing the number of point defects through annealing. The value of 112 cm V s at 1250 C. compares quite favorably with the theoretical Ng et al and experimental Nakamura et al values of 125 150 cm V s for in situ doped GaN doped to the same concentration.

With a box implant to 2.5 10cmIrokawa et al found that the mobility decreased slowly to a value of 72 cm V s as Tincreased up to 1300 C. but it then increased to 125 cm V s for Tequal to 1350 and 1400 C. Given that the cap was at least partially destroyed by the large N partial pressure it is likely that nitrogen vacancies were formed at these temperatures and contributed to the rise in the value of the mobility. One to one comparisons cannot be made with other work because they used single implants but meaningful insights can be gained by comparing samples whose peak concentration is the same as the concentration of the box implant. Nakano et al found that for the lowest dose of 10cm which has a peak concentration of 6 10cm the mobility was 225 cm V s after an anneal at 1300 C. They found it decreased with increasing Tto 125 cm V s when the dose was 10cm and to 100 cm V s when the dose was 10cm.

A dual AlN cap was found to be effective for annealing Si implanted GaN up to a temperature of 1250 C. in that it did not allow the nitrogen to preferentially evaporate. The cap is composed of a thin 80 nm adhesion layer formed by depositing AlN at 600 C. by MOCVD followed by the deposition of a thick 1 m AlN film by sputtering at 500 C. to insure complete coverage and to give the cap added strength. A physical analysis of the surface shows that the AlN is not cracked and does not contain any blow holes and cross section TEM shows that the thin MOCVD layer has good adhesion and the thick sputtered layer contains only a few voids. An analysis of the surface of the GaN with the AlN cap etched off also shows that the only etch pits that are formed are a few thermal etch pits formed at micropipes there are not any thermal etch pits formed by the preferential evaporation of N that would severely roughen the surface. A theoretical analysis of the vapor pressure of the nitrogen in equilibrium with the GaN shows that it is equal to the yield strength of AlN at 1250 C. suggesting this is the maximum temperature to which the GaN can be raised since at higher temperatures the nitrogen pressure would be large enough to fracture the cap. This analysis suggests that data obtained by others who annealed their samples at higher temperatures probably had some contributions to the electrical characteristics from nitrogen vacancies as well as the activated silicon implants.

Although the surface of the GaN does not contain any blow holes when it is annealed at 1250 C. the surface does reconstruct at this temperature making the individual crystallites in the film more visible. In so doing the surface becomes rougher. The driving force for this to occur is a lowering of the surface energy via solid state diffusion. A cross section HRTEM analysis of an implanted but not annealed sample and one that was annealed at 1250 C. show that some solid state diffusion does occur during the anneal as the sample that was annealed contains larger stacking faults.

A Hall effect analysis of the samples implanted with silicon to 5 10cmshows that the percent activation increases with the annealing temperature reaching 70 at 1250 C. The mobility also generally increases with T and reaches a value of 240 cm V s at 1250 C. This is only slightly less than that which is expected for samples doped in situ to the same concentration and with the same dislocation concentration suggesting that much of the implant damage has been annealed out. For the samples implanted to 10cm the percent activation increases with Tand reaches a value of 15 at 1250 C. The mobility decreases very slowly with Tbecause the increased scattering from ionized donors as the activation increases is dominant and it reaches a value of 112 cm V s at 1250 C. This is also close to the value of in situ doped GaN with the same doping concentration.

