---

title: Lamination process and roller for use therein
abstract: A web of a first sheet material and a web of a second sheet material are laminated together by a process wherein the sheet materials are wound, in an interleaved relationship, upon a roller having a radially displaceable outer surface. The roller and webs and then subjected to heating and/or a low-pressure environment so as to complete the lamination. A body of adhesive material, such as a hot melt adhesive, may be interposed between the webs and the heating or low pressure environment can activate this adhesive. Further disposed are particular configurations of rollers with radially displaceable surfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07947149&OS=07947149&RS=07947149
owner: United Solar Ovonic LLC
number: 07947149
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080121
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 886 517 filed Jan. 25 2007 entitled Lamination Process and Roller for Use Therein. 

This invention was made at least in part under U.S. Government Contract No. AFRL F29601 03 C 0122. The Government may have rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to lamination processes and more specifically to processes for laminating lengthy webs of thin flexible materials. In another aspect the invention relates to a particular radially compressible roller which may be utilized in the lamination process.

Thin film optical and electronic devices including but not limited to photovoltaic devices electrical circuits displays optical filters and the like are often disposed upon thin flexible substrates in order to decrease the device weight and or provide a flexible device. These substrates may comprise metallic sheets or polymeric bodies and in particular instances such polymers may comprise polyimides.

Use of a thin substrate body can complicate fabrication of the device particularly if high speed high volume processes such as roll to roll deposition processes are utilized. In such instances the thin flexible substrate is frequently supported upon a body of carrier material such as a sheet of metal or polymer. Following the device fabrication the carrier is removed by physical and or chemical methods. In one particular example a thin polymeric substrate comprised of a polyimide is supported upon a carrier comprising a sheet of ferrous alloy such as stainless steel. Following device fabrication the stainless steel is removed by etching. One such process is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 176 543 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In a process of the type described above it is necessary to affix the thin flexible substrate to the carrier member so as to provide a smooth uniform surface for deposition of the thin film layers. Such affixation is typically accomplished by lamination using a combination of heat and pressure and optionally a hot or other thermally activated melt adhesive to bond the substrate to the carrier. The lamination process may be readily implemented for relatively small area substrates however when large area substrates such as relatively long webs of materials are being prepared problems of uniformity can arise. Typically the lamination process is carried out under low pressure so as to avoid the formation of any bubbles or inclusions which could compromise the laminated surface. One approach to laminating long webs of material involves rolling the webs in an interleaved configuration onto a cylindrical support under tension and then disposing the rolled material in a low pressure environment and heating the material to cause the lamination.

Lamination of the substrate materials is typically carried out at fairly high temperatures and these temperatures can cause problems in the lamination process since the high temperatures can cause deformation or other adverse effects on the roller upon which the webs are wound. Such deformation can result in unevenness buckling wrinkling or other defects in the laminated product. In some instances rollers are provided with an elastomeric surface which can operate to maintain tension in the wound webs and thus accommodate thermal stresses however because of problems such as outgassing thermal degradation or the like such elastomeric materials cannot be utilized in high temperature ranges typically employed for laminating substrates of this type. Ceramic rollers or various metal alloy rollers can tolerate high temperatures however thermal expansion of such rollers is nonuniform and in general they tend to expand to a greater degree in their center barrel when heated thereby compressing the webs in a nonuniform manner. The present invention as will be explained in detail hereinbelow has been developed to overcome these shortcomings of the prior art and to provide a lamination process and system which is operative to uniformly laminate long webs of materials under relatively high temperature conditions so as to produce laminated materials having sufficiently high quality to allow their use as substrates for the preparation of thin film electronic and optical devices.

Disclosed herein is a method for laminating elongated webs of sheet material. According to the method a first elongated sheet of material and a second elongated sheet of material are rolled in an interleaved relationship onto a roller which has a radially displaceable outer surface. The roller with the interleaved webs wound thereupon is then heated and or exposed to a low pressure environment so as to effectuate the lamination of the webs. In some instances one of the webs may have a layer of hot melt adhesive disposed on a surface thereof in other instances a separate layer of hot melt adhesive may be interleaved between the first and second webs. This hot melt adhesive will function to laminate the webs together. The radially displaceable surface of the roller functions to keep the webs under an appropriate degree of tension during the time they are subjected to the lamination process. In this regard the webs may be wound onto the roller so as to initially displace and compress the surface of the roller so as to provide a biasing force on the webs. Alternatively the expansion of the roller during heating will displace the roller surface thereby imposing a biasing force on the webs.

In some instances the webs comprise a layer of a polymeric material and a layer of a metal. The method may be used to prepare laminated materials having utility as substrates for electronic devices such as photovoltaic devices.

In particular aspects of the invention the roller may comprise a plurality of leaf springs supported on an outer surface of a core member. In particular aspects the outer surface of the core member is a cylindrical surface and the leaf springs may be comprised of a plurality of members each having a length dimension which is disposed so as to be aligned with a length dimension of the cylindrical core and a width dimension which is aligned with a circumference of the cylindrical surface of the core.

The present invention is directed to a method for laminating relatively long webs of flexible material and to a particular type of roller which may be used in the lamination process. In accord with the method of the present invention a first and a second elongated web of sheet material are wound in an interleaved fashion upon a roller having a radially displaceable surface so as to compress the radially displaceable surface. In this manner the radially displaceable surface exerts an outward radial bias on the webs thus maintaining them under uniform compression. The web and roller are then heated to bring about a thermal lamination process. In particular instances the rolled webs are subjected to a subatmospheric pressure environment before and or during at least part of the time they are being heated. By radially displaceable is meant that at least some portions of the outer surface of the roller are capable of motion having a component which is directed along a radius of the roller so as to effectively change the diameter of the roller.

Referring now to there is shown a portion of a supported substrate laminated in accord with the present invention. The supported substrate of includes a body of substrate material a support member and a body of adhesive such as a hot melt adhesive a thermosetting adhesive or a pressure sensitive adhesive therebetween. It is to be understood that in some instances the carrier and or substrate may include further layers thereupon. For example the carrier may include a stress balancing layer thereupon which layer is subsequently transferred to the substrate when the carrier is removed. As will be described below an etch stop layer may also be disposed on the support and this layer will function to limit the effects of an etchant material which is subsequently used to remove the support from the substrate following lamination. In other instances the substrate itself may include further layers thereupon. shows an adhesive as being used to bond the substrate and carrier however it is to be understood that in some instances the adhesive may be eliminated and bonding may be accomplished solely by heat and or pressure. It should also be noted that while shows the substrate and carrier as being approximately equal in thickness the relative thicknesses of these two members may vary.

Referring now to there is shown a first step in a process for the lamination of a web of substrate material onto a carrier . Specifically shows a portion of a roller having a radially displaceable surface with a web of substrate material and a web of carrier material being wound thereupon. As will be seen portions of the webs of these materials have already been wound onto the roller . As shown in the web of substrate material has a layer of an adhesive disposed thereupon. In other instances the adhesive may be disposed upon the carrier or it may comprise a separate web. And as previously noted in certain instances the adhesive may be eliminated.

Referring now to there is shown an end view of a roller having a radially displaceable surface. This is one type of roller which may be used in the practice of the present invention. is a perspective view of this same roller. As will be seen in the roller includes a generally cylindrical core having a plurality of leaf springs for example spring affixed thereto in this instance by screws . As will be seen in the figures the leaf springs are disposed about the outer surface of the cylindrical core and are generally aligned with the length dimension of the surface of the cylindrical core. These leaf spring members provide an outer surface for the roller which surface is in part displaceable in a direction corresponding generally to the radius of the roller.

Referring now to there is shown an enlarged view of a portion of the roller as it corresponds to the depiction in . As is seen in a leaf spring member is affixed to the surface of the core by a screw . As shown in the leaf spring is a generally elongated planar member disposed tangent to the cylindrical surface of the core so that the two edges of the leaf spring are spaced from the surface of the roller. The leaf spring is resilient and hence the free edge portions may be elastically deformed in a path of motion with at least one component which is generally perpendicular to the surface of the roller and in the context of this disclosure such deformation is referred to as a radial deformation. As shown in edges of the spring are generally tapered. This feature is not necessary for the practice of the present invention but does allow for a smoother winding of a web of material thereonto. As shown in the edges on both sides of the spring are tapered. This dual tapering is not necessary for smooth winding single tapering will suffice. However by making both sides tapered the spring may be periodically removed from the core and turned over thereby increasing its service life. In some particular instances the leaf spring is fabricated from a spring steel such as a stainless steel spring steel. However it is to be understood that other resilient materials may be utilized. depicts a top plan view of one specific configuration of leaf spring which may be employed to fabricate the roller. In this instance the spring material is 0.030 inch thick spring steel.

Referring back to it will be seen that the leaf spring members are affixed to the core by screws . The screws are disposed proximate the ends of each of the leaf springs. By so positioning the screws a central portion of the roller is free to receive and retain a web of material thereupon. In order to accommodate possible differential thermal expansion of the springs and core the springs may be attached to the core so as to permit relative motion thereto. For example the springs may include slots which receive the screws. And the springs may be affixed to the core by shoulder screws having a shoulder which is slightly smaller than the opening in the spring and slightly thicker than the thickness of the spring. In this manner the screw may be tightly seated onto the core and the shoulder will stand off the remainder of the screw head so as to provide clearance that will accommodate movement of the spring. Other such arrangements will be apparent to those of skill in the art. Various other methods of affixation may also be employed. For example the spring strips may be welded or brazed onto the core and such affixation may be along the entire length of the spring or at one or more selected locations such as the ends.

Various other configurations of core and leaf spring may also be implemented to fabricate the roller. For example shows a portion of another configuration of roller which includes a core as previously described having leaf spring members affixed to the core by screws . However the roller of the embodiment includes leaf springs which are affixed proximate one edge thereof so that the other edge is spaced from the core . In only one side of the springs has a tapered edge however two sided dual tapers as shown in may also be used in this embodiment. shows yet another embodiment in which a curved leaf spring having generally rounded edges is affixed to a core . Yet other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

Still other configurations of roller having a displaceable surface may be utilized in the practice of the present invention. For example shows a roller which is comprised of a plurality of segments for example segment which cooperate to define a generally cylindrical roller surface. These segments are joined to one another by springs . The presence of the springs allows for the cylindrical surface of the roller to be compressed and displaced. In variants of the embodiment the number of segments may be increased or decreased in number. Also the springs may be replaced by other biasing members such as elastic bodies pneumatic or hydraulic devices or the like. Yet other embodiments of rollers with displaceable surfaces may be utilized to practice the disclosed method. It is notable that the present invention provides for the fabrication of rollers with radially displaceable surfaces from high temperature tolerant materials such as metals or ceramics. In some specific instances rollers in accord with this invention are fabricated entirely from metals and or ceramics.

In one specific group of embodiments substrates for ultra light photovoltaic devices and other such semiconductor devices are prepared by a process wherein a substrate comprised of a polyimide material such as the material sold under the designation Kapton is laminated onto a stainless steel or other ferrous support member. In these embodiments the polyimide typically has a thickness in the range of 0.5 2 mils and in one specific instance has a thickness of approximately 1 mil. The polyimide material is provided with a coating of a fluoropolymer based hot melt adhesive having a thickness of approximately 0.2 mils. The support member is a body of 5 mil thick stainless steel and in particular instances the stainless steel is coated with a zinc oxide layer of approximately 500 nanometers thickness. This layer will in the lamination process be transferred to the polyimide substrate and function to prevent layer curl. In particular instances a layer of metal such as titanium having a thickness of approximately 50 nanometers is disposed upon the stainless steel beneath the zinc oxide layer. This titanium layer functions to prevent etching of the zinc oxide when the stainless steel layer is subsequently etched away from the polyimide. As such it is referred to as an etch stop layer.

In this process the stainless steel support and polyimide substrate are wound onto the roller under tension in an interleaved relationship as depicted in . The wound roll is disposed in a vacuum chamber and maintained at a pressure in the general range of 1 50 millitorr. In a specific instance the chamber is maintained at a pressure of approximately 10 millitorr under a flow of nitrogen. Heating may be accomplished by the use of a conventional vacuum oven however in one specific embodiment heating is accomplished by disposing a radiant heater within the core of the roller and disposing a heater blanket about the outside of the rolled material. Other heating arrangements may also be utilized. The roll is raised to a temperature of 350 C. over a period of 24 hours then maintained at 350 C. for another period of 24 hours and subsequently allowed to cool to room temperature over a third 24 hour period. Once the roll has been cooled the chamber is raised to atmospheric pressure and the roll is removed. It has been found that this produces a high quality lamination devoid of bubbles or other inclusions. The substrate thus produced has a very uniform and level surface and is very suitable for the deposition of high quality thin film electronic devices thereupon.

It is to be understood that modifications and variations of this process may be implemented. For example pressure and temperature conditions as well as times may be varied as will be appropriate for particular materials being laminated. In some instances a low pressure environment will not be required. In other instances lamination may be accomplished solely by pressure and significant external heating need not employed. In some instances the webs are wound onto the roller under tension while in other instances the webs may not be under significant initial tension but will subsequently be tensioned when the roller is heated and expands thereby compressing the surface. Also as noted above various configurations of compressible roller may be utilized in the present invention. All of such modifications and variations are within the scope of this invention. The foregoing drawings discussion and description are illustrative of specific embodiments of the invention but are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

