---

title: Fabrication of optical-quality facets vertical to a (001) orientation substrate by selective epitaxial growth
abstract: Methods for forming {110} type facets on a (001) oriented substrate of Group III-V compounds and Group IV semiconductors using selective epitaxial growth is provided. The methods include forming a dielectric film on a (100) substrate. The dielectric film can then be patterned to expose a portion of the substrate and to form a substrate-dielectric film boundary substantially parallel to a <110> direction. A {110} type sidewall facet can then be formed by epitaxially growing a semiconductor layer on the exposed portion of the substrate and the dielectric film.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08841756&OS=08841756&RS=08841756
owner: STC.UNM
number: 08841756
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 326 431 filed on Jan. 6 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 432 161 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 641 785 filed Jan. 7 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was developed with Government support under Contract No. MDA972 00 1 0024 from the Department of Defense Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and their fabrication and more particularly to epitaxial growth of structures with vertical facets perpendicular to a 001 orientation substrate of Group III V compound and or Group IV semiconductors.

In planar integrated photonics spatially periodic structures are very useful for manipulating optical propagation. Often this requires high aspect ratio features defined by surfaces perpendicular to a substrate. For example semiconductor laser diodes especially in plane or edge emitting laser diodes are key components of many optical optoelectronic integrated circuits. Currently the material and structure dependent lasing wavelength extends from 300 nm to longer than 10 m and emission power greater than 1 kW for high power and 1 W for coupling to single mode optical fibers are available from compound semiconductor technology. This lasing performance is achieved using a Fabry Perot optical resonator that is bounded by cavity mirrors perpendicular to the gain length. Typically these are perpendicular to the substrate surface for in plane laser diodes.

Semiconductor lasers require high optical quality mirrors for good device performance. Conventional methods for making these mirrors require cleaving of a substrate. In a 001 oriented semiconductor substrate cleaving is along a direction and provides reflectivity of about 0.3 0.4 without additional coatings. However this is not compatible with integration processes because it involves separating a large wafer into many small pieces each of which must be carefully handled and integrated with other components.

Another conventional method for mirror fabrication for integrated circuits is chemical etching using either wet or dry etching processes. But an etched surface is generally not perfectly vertical to the substrate and is not atomically flat. This results in light scattering losses that are detrimental to the lasing process. For integration of laser diodes into a large scale optical optoelectronic integrated circuit a process that can overcome these problems is required.

Thus there is a need to overcome these and other problems of the prior art and to provide a method to fabricate mirror facets on a substrates of Group III V compounds and or Group IV semiconductors compatible with photonic integration processes.

According to various embodiments a method for making a semiconductor device is provided. The method can include forming a dielectric film on a substrate wherein the substrate has a 001 orientation. The dielectric film can be patterned to expose a portion or portions of the substrate wherein at least a substrate dielectric film boundary is substantially parallel to a direction. An epitaxial layer can be formed including a sidewall oriented vertical to the substrate wherein the layer is formed by epitaxial growth and the sidewall has an 110 orientation.

According to various embodiments a semiconductor device is provided. The semiconductor device can include a substrate wherein the substrate has an 001 orientation and an epitaxial layer including at least a first vertical sidewall is epitaxially grown atop the substrate wherein the vertical sidewall has an 110 orientation.

According to various embodiments another method for making a semiconductor device is provided. The method can include providing a substrate wherein the substrate has a 001 orientation and depositing a dielectric film on the substrate. The dielectric film can be patterned to create an opening that exposes a portion of the substrate wherein one or more boundaries of the opening are substantially parallel to a 110 direction. A laser structure can then be formed comprising a laser cavity on the exposed portion of the substrate wherein the laser cavity comprises an epitaxially formed facet at each of two opposing ends of the laser cavity that serve as laser cavity mirrors.

According to various embodiments still other methods for making a semiconductor device are provided. The method can include providing a substrate wherein the substrate has a 001 orientation and depositing a dielectric film on the substrate. The dielectric film can be patterned to form at least two stripes that expose at least two portions of the substrate wherein the at least the outer edge of each stripe is substantially parallel to a 110 direction. A vertically faceted epitaxial layer can be formed on each of the at least two stripes wherein the outer edge of each of the vertically faceted epitaxial layers has an 110 orientation and these edges form laser cavity mirrors. A second dielectric film can be deposited on the patterned dielectric film and the vertically faceted epitaxial layers. The dielectric film deposited between the vertically faceted epitaxial layers can then be removed and a laser structure can be epitaxially grown between the vertically faceted epitaxial layers wherein the laser structure comprises an active layer grown between two cladding layers.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate several embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part thereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense.

As depicted in the present teachings relate to fabrication techniques for epitaxially growing 110 oriented sidewalls facets compatible with integration processes. Formation of 110 oriented sidewalls facets can be applicable across length scales ranging from centimeters to nanometers. These sidewalls facets can be vertical with respect to a 001 oriented substrate in the nanoscale regime and have significant advantages for semiconductor devices. The disclosed methods are a directed self assembly process using top down pattern definition to drive bottom up self assembly.

Realization of short cavity laser diodes can allow higher device density per chip by reducing cavity length higher speed by lowering parasitic capacitances and lower heat generation by decreasing threshold current. In fabrication of for example grating structures the bottom up process relying on the present teachings can provide greater degrees of freedom in design such as a higher aspect ratio with better surface smoothness than etching processes in sub nanoscale period patterns. The present teachings can be applicable not only to compound semiconductor laser diodes but also to Group IV semiconductor grating structures for photonics.

As used herein l m n notation refers to a plane l m n notation refers to a family of planes l m n notation refers to a crystallographic direction and notation refers to one or more equivalent directions.

Also as used herein the term l m n oriented substrate or layer is used interchangeably with the term l m n substrate or layer and refers to a substrate or layer having its l m n planes oriented parallel to a surface of the substrate or layer. For example a 001 substrate is used interchangeably with a 001 oriented substrate and refers to a substrate having its 001 planes oriented parallel to a substrate surface.

As used herein the term sidewall refers to a surface of a structure adjacent but not parallel to the substrate. The term facet as used herein refers to any epitaxially formed crystallographic surface of the structure. Thus a sidewall can be a facet of the structure such as for example a sidewall facet.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of less than 10 can include any and all sub ranges between and including the minimum value of zero and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all sub ranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than zero and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 e.g. 1 to 5.

According to various embodiments the present teachings provide methods for forming 110 oriented facets that can be vertical to a 001 oriented substrate surface aligned along a direction e.g. the 110 or 0 direction and substantially atomically flat.

Exemplary methods for fabricating 110 oriented facets compatible with integration processes in accordance with various embodiments of the invention will now be described. Referring to a dielectric film can be formed on a 001 oriented substrate . According to various embodiments the thickness of dielectric film can be considerably smaller than that of a device structure. For example the thickness can be about 100 nm or less. In an exemplary embodiment substrate can comprise a Group III V compound and or a Group IV semiconductor for example GaAs. Dielectric film can comprise SiO SiN or AlOor other dielectric film used for selective epitaxy.

A desired pattern can then be formed on the dielectric film which includes a substrate dielectric film boundary substantially parallel to a direction for example mainly along the 110 or 0 direction on a 001 orientation . Referring to a portion of dielectric film can then be exposed using for example a combination of lithography and dry and or wet etching such that a substrate dielectric film boundary is substantially parallel to a direction. The kinetics of faceting allow approximate alignment of the pattern direction along 110 . Depending on the length of the vertical facet along the pattern direction however any misalignment of the substrate dielectric film boundary relative to the 110 orientation may lead to the formation of steps on the epitaxially grown 110 vertical planes. The effects of these steps can impact device performance. The extent to which this misalignment can be tolerated depends on the final device performance requirements.

Patterned dielectric film and substrate can then be cleaned and loaded in an epitaxy reactor. An epitaxial layer epilayer shown in can then be grown in exposed portion of substrate . According to various embodiments epitaxial layer can comprise a Group III V material or a Group IV material such as for example GaAs or Si. To form 110 type sidewall facets at the substrate dielectric film boundary the growth mode can be selective and the growth rate can be about 2 monolayer ML sec or less. In various embodiments the growth rate may be lower than typical growth rate which is 2 4 monolayer sec in metal organic vapor phase epitaxy MOVPE and 0.3 1 monolayer sec in molecular beam epitaxy MBE . This is because the formation and expansion of vertical facets are affected by the surface migration of atoms incident on a patterned substrate. According to various embodiments the growth rate can be about 0.3 mL sec or less for MBE and about 2 monolayer sec or less for MOVPE.

In various embodiments selective growth can be achieved through for example MBE and or MOVPE and or any other epitaxy techniques. As shown in selective growth on patterned substrate can result in the formation of sidewall facets at the boundary between the substrate surface and the dielectric film and can induce lateral growth over the dielectric film. Sidewall facets can be substantially atomically flat and perpendicular to 001 substrate . Such selective growth accompanies the formation of new facets near and over the dielectric film providing an opportunity for the generation of sidewall facets other than 11n type orientations. Generally growth proceeds with the minimization of the total surface free energy and the overall shape of a selectively grown epilayer follows it with the formation of 110 type orientation facets on the sidewalls.

While not intending to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that the vertical faceting seems to be related to a low growth rate. For example a growth rate of about 0.2 0.3 mL sec where vertical faceting is available can be lower than the typical growth rate of MOVPE discussed above by about an order of magnitude. The faceting associated with the vertical sidewalls at such a low deposition rate implies that the cross section of the pentagon having the vertical type sidewall facets is energetically more favorable than that of a triangle cross section having no vertical facets. In other words the vertical faceting occurs to minimize the total surface energy under the given growth conditions. In patterned selective growth the overall geometric shape of an epilayer is determined by faceting at the substrate dielectric film boundary as the pattern scale is reduced to the nanoscale regime where the surface diffusion length under the given growth conditions is comparable to or greater than the physical extent of the epitaxially grown nanostructure. Therefore it is believed that the vertical faceting is energetically the most energy minimized shaping under the given growth conditions.

Referring again to 110 facets can form above dielectric film . Starting on dielectric film 110 facets can continuously extend along the growth direction as deposition proceeds. For example as shown in epitaxial layer can comprise a 1 0 facet that is perpendicular to the 001 substrate a 1 1 facet and an 001 facet .

Once the 110 facets are formed by selective growth the growth conditions can be altered to enhance the growth rates so long as the initial faceting is not lost. This can include transfer to another reactor if appropriate precautions are exercised e.g. MBE to MOVPE . In MOVPE a decrease in the growth time also can be achieved by changing the growth rate from a low value for example 0.1 ML sec to a higher value after the low growth rate selective growth has established the 110 type facets.

In an exemplary embodiment a grating structure was formed using the disclosed inventive methods. As schematically depicted in the side view of and the top view of a dielectric film was formed on a 001 substrate . 001 substrate was a GaAs substrate. Dielectric film formed by electron beam evaporation comprised SiOand had a thickness considerably smaller than that of a device structure of about 30 nm. Patterning by i line interferometic lithography and CFplasma etching formed a plurality of stripes having a period of about 1.26 m and oriented in the 110 direction. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the period can range from nano to micro meter scale for example up to a few micrometers . For ease of illustration only a portion of the plurality of stripes is depicted in the figures. Each of the stripes had a width of about 200 nm. To minimize the stripe width a double exposure technique was employed. In the same photoresist layer an ultraviolet UV exposure for a 420 nm period interference pattern was overlapped with another exposure for a three times larger 1.26 m pattern. This resulted in a significantly reduced spatial linewidth compared with that available from a single exposure at a 1.26 m period with the same UV peak intensity.

As schematically depicted in an epitaxial layer was then formed by MOVPE above each of the plurality of stripes . Epitaxial layers had a smooth surface morphology and a height which was proportional to the deposition amount and can be increased up to a few micro meters. Lateral growth from stripes occurred partially over dielectric film . Such lateral growth can improve the flatness of the sidewalls eliminating atomic steps that are nucleated as a result of the roughness of the substrate dielectric film boundary along the pattern direction. As shown in each epitaxial layer had a sidewall structure including 110 facets perpendicular to the 001 substrate and 111 B type facets near the top of each eptaxial layer structure . An exemplary processes using MBE to form a grating structure in accordance with the present teachings is disclosed in Epitaxial Growth of a Nanoscale Vertically Faceted One Dimensional High Aspect Ratio Grating in III V Materials for Integrated Photonics 87 07110 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Fabrication of 110 type facets by epitaxial growth can be applicable for example to mirror facets of integrated semiconductor laser diodes semiconductor air distributed Bragg reflectors DBRs short cavity laser diodes so called horizontal vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs and grating structures for manipulation of light propagation in solids. Nanoscale patterning can also provide fabrication of a quarter wave stacked distributed Bragg reflector one and two dimensional photonic crystals for 1.3 to 1.55 m wavelength fiber optic communications. Two examples of fabrication of 110 type facets by epitaxial growth for these types of applications will now be provided.

According to various other embodiments a semiconductor laser can be formed using the disclosed inventive methods. Referring to the top view of and the cross sectional side view of a dielectric film can be formed on a 001 oriented substrate . An opening for a laser diode can be patterned in dielectric film that exposes a portion of substrate where one or more of the dielectric film substrate boundaries are substantially parallel to a 110 direction.

The substrate and patterned dielectric film can then be loaded into an epitaxial reactor and a laser structure can be formed on the exposed portion of substrate using the disclosed methods. Referring to the laser structure can include cladding layers and and an active layer epitaxially grown between cladding layers and . The active layer can include regions of lower bandgap material to provide carrier confinement including but not restricted to heterstructure quantum wells and quantum dots as is well known. Vertical sidewall facets and can be formed as disclosed herein and serve as cavity mirrors for the laser.

According to various other embodiments another semiconductor laser can be formed using the disclosed inventive methods. Referring to the top view of and the cross sectional side view of a first dielectric film can be formed on a 001 oriented substrate . Two stripes and can then be patterned in first dielectric film in a 110 orientation such that the distance between the outer edges of stripes and corresponds to the cavity length of the semiconductor laser.

Substrate and patterned first dielectric film can then be loaded into an epitaxial reactor and epitaxial layers and can be formed over stripes and respectively. As shown in the structure of epitaxial layers and can comprise vertical sidewall facets. A second dielectric film can then be deposited over the epitaxial layers and and the exposed portions of first dielectric film .

Referring to an opening can be formed that exposes the portion of substrate between the epitaxial layers and by removing the corresponding portions of second dielectric film and first dielectric film using for example lithography and etching. Opening can resemble for example opening shown in . In an epitaxial reactor a laser structure can then be formed on opening . As shown in the laser structure can include cladding layers and and an active layer embedded between cladding layers and . Remaining second dielectric film can also be removed. The outer facets of the epitaxial layers and and the structure between them can serve as cavity mirrors for the laser.

According to various other embodiments other orientation substrates can be used to achieve facets vertical to a given substrate. In such cases facets different from 110 can be utilized for device fabrication.

While the invention has been illustrated with respect to one or more implementations alterations and or modifications can be made to the illustrated examples without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular function. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

