---

title: Voicemail outbox
abstract: The subject matter of this specification can be embodied in, among other things, a method that includes receiving a voicemail message from a first telephone user for a second telephone user; providing, for display in a messaging inbox of the second telephone user, the voicemail message or information used to retrieve the voicemail message; and providing the voicemail message or information used to retrieve the voicemail message in a messaging outbox of the first telephone user, wherein the messaging outbox is formatted to display to the first telephone user a plurality of messages sent by the first telephone user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08238526&OS=08238526&RS=08238526
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08238526
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
Voice messages are a daily part of business and everyday life. Even with mobile communication people often miss each others calls. Voicemail technology allows users to transmit audio messages. Some voicemail systems allow a recipient of a message to save a message for extended periods of time. Generally to leave a voice mail message a caller dials a callee with a telephone a system associated with the callee but typically not with the caller senses that the callee has not answered the call or the callee has previously indicated that all calls should be declined and interacts with the caller to accept a message from the caller store it digitally and index it with other messages for the callee. The callee may later listen to the message such as on a computer or their own telephone.

This document describes techniques for organizing voice mail messages to make them available to various users of a telephony system. For example in addition to storing incoming messages for users the techniques described here also store outgoing messages for other users. Moreover the outgoing messages which would correspond to incoming messages for other users of a common system may be marked and organized in a manner so that they may appear with other outgoing messages for that user in a unified manner. For example a unified messaging application may show e mail messages voice mail messages and text messages all together with a sent box interspersing descriptors of each various kind of message according to the time it was sent according to the recipient of the message according to a description of the message e.g. a subject line or according to other similar mechanisms.

In a first general aspect a computer implemented method processing voicemail is described. The method includes receiving a voicemail message from a first telephone user for a second telephone user providing for display in a messaging inbox of the second telephone user the voicemail message or information used to retrieve the voicemail message and providing the voicemail message or information used to retrieve the voicemail message in a messaging outbox of the first telephone user wherein the messaging outbox is formatted to display to the first telephone user a plurality of messages sent by the first telephone user.

In a second general aspect a voice messaging system is described. The system includes a personal information manager configured to store e mail and telephone number information for a plurality of contacts a voicemail manager to receive and store voicemails for review of the voicemails after they have been sent by voicemail senders and voicemail recipients and a messaging manager to receive display information about the voicemails and organize the display information so that a voicemail sender may see the display information about a plurality of sent message types including information from the personal information manager and may review and e mail their sent voicemails.

In still another general aspect a computer implemented voice messaging system is described. The system includes a personal information manager configured to store e mail and telephone number information for a plurality of contacts a voicemail manager to receive and store voicemails for review of the voicemails after they have been sent by voicemail senders and voicemail recipients and means for providing for the display of voicemail information to a user who sent a corresponding voicemail message along with similar information about other types of messages sent by the user.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In a given day a busy individual can send and receive hundreds of e mail messages dozens of voicemail messages and even more text messages. Other messaging modalities are also being developed such as micro blogging and other similar techniques. Some e mail systems allow a user to view sent e mail messages in the user s e mail outbox. The same ability to recall what information has been transmitted can assist the user in a voicemail setting including verification that a voicemail was sent. However telephone functionality is often separated form e mail functionality so that although a user can easily access incoming voice mails that are typically stored on their own local system so that a bridge can be made between an e mail system and voice mail storage the same is not generally true for voice mail systems where the voice mail message is stored on a system for the recipient. A system saving voicemails for both the recipient and the caller would allow each individual to track information and requests from both parties reducing confusion and inefficiencies.

In general a caller can leave a voicemail for a recipient in a telephone system. The telephone system can be a private branch exchange PBX the public switched telephone network PSTN or other telephone systems and the message may be left with a service that is attendant to the system. The caller can try to reach a recipient via telephone and reach that person s voicemail inbox. After the caller leaves a voicemail in the recipient s voicemail inbox the system can provide a copy of the voicemail message to the caller s outbox. Alternatively or in addition the system can provide a pointer to the caller s voicemail message in the caller s voicemail outbox.

The caller may then be able to interact with the message in manners similar to their interaction with other types of messages in a universal messaging application. For example an indicator for the message may be displayed in a chronological list of other outgoing messages for the caller e.g. e mail text micro blog etc. . The caller may also forward the voice mail message e.g. as an attachment to an e mail or as a pointer in an e mail through the messaging application or may otherwise send an e mail that is based on the message. For example a caller may access a voice mail message in his or her outbook and may choose to forward the message such as by forwarding it to the same person they previously called. Such a step may cause a copy of the message to be attached to an e mail to be sent to the callee where the e mail address of the callee is automatically determined by cross referencing it to a telephone number of the callee in a contacts database that I accessible to the caller. Such an action may occur where the caller wants to make sure the callee receives the message by whatever means. Also the e mailed version of the message may include transcribed text of the message. This may allow the caller to better reference the message from his or her outbox or wherever else the caller chooses to have such messages stored or the callee to receive the message. For example the callee may be in a meeting where he or she could read the message but would not be able to listen to the message. In effect such a technique provides a much more convenient and more effective approach than the caller leaving a voice mail and then manually composing a separate e mail that says I just left you a voice mail. Could you listen to it and get back to me 

In the example shown in the caller Polly can use a first communication device such as a smart phone device or other form of computer powered communication device to call a second communication device through a telephone system . The screens of devices and show the result of various messaging activities by various messaging modalities with device showing an outbox and device showing an inbox. The messages are shown in a familiar manner sorted by reverse chronological order i.e. newest messages at the top . The message type message sender recipient and messages subject are shown for each message. As for message types speaking bubbles are shown to indicate text messages pips to indicate short lived and short micro blog messages envelopes to indicate e mails and telephones to indicate voice mail messages with associated arrows to indicate incoming or outgoing messages .

With respect to the voice mail message having Save Me as a subject Polly first sent a call indicated by Arrow A through the telephone system . The telephone system connected the call Arrow B to the recipient s Larry s communication device . If Larry had previously established a do not disturb status with the telephone system then no message may have needed to be sent to Larry s device at this point. In this instance Larry did not answer the call on his communication device . Larry s recorded message was thus sent Arrows C and D to Polly s communication device . Polly transmitted a message Arrow E to the telephone system in response. The telephone system stored the message in Larry s box Arrow F and in Polly s box Arrow F . Alternatively the telephone system may only have one shared box for voicemails where each user may be served the message and the message is saved until both users choose to delete it. The message can be displayed as an outgoing voicemail message on Polly s communication device and an incoming message on Larry s device .

A lower e mail indicator on the devices shows the result of a follow up communication by Polly. In particular after leaving the voice mail message Polly may be concerned that Larry does not listen to his voice mail often and is more likely to see an e mail immediately such as if he is in a meeting. Her actions in doing so may have started with her selecting the indicator for the outgoing voice mail in her outbox which may have caused a window showing information about the voice mail to be instantiated. The window may be much like an e mail message and may contain a textual transcript of the message and a link to the voice mail message or an audio file of the message. Selectable controls may be shown in the window that are similar to the reply reply to all and forward controls typically provided with an e mail message. In this example Polly may have selected a forward control or a follow up control that then causes the message to be sent to Larry as an e mail message.

A link between the follow up message and the original voice mail message may also be created so as to permit improved control of further action concerning the messages. For example if the system determines that Larry has listened to the message via the e mailed follow up messaged or read the text of the message the system may show the voice mail message as having been reviewed e.g. by de emphasizing the message . In a similar manner the system may delete the message from both messaging modalities the e mail or the voice mail if the user deletes it in one.

The telephone system can provide access to the caller s voicemail outbox in various implementations. For example the voicemail message can be stored in a central location as a single file with a pointer to the file in the caller s voicemail outbox . The pointer may be a hyperlink to the voicemail message. Likewise a pointer or a hyperlink can be in the caller s voicemail outbox but the voicemail message can be stored in various separate files with a metafile to link to an audio file a text transcription of the audio file caller identification data and other associated data.

In some implementations the voicemail message can be stored in multiple locations. For example the voicemail message can be stored in a central server and on the caller s communication device . In some implementations the voicemail message can be stored in the recipient s communication device and the caller s communication device . In other implementations the voicemail message can be directed to more than one recipient. For example if Polly wanted to blind carbon copy the voicemail message she sent to Larry the voicemail message could be stored in three separate communication devices. Alternatively the voicemail message could be stored in multiple separate user boxes.

In some implementations the recipient may not be within the same voicemail system as the caller. For example if the recipient does not have a box for messages the voicemail message can be stored for the caller without any file stored for the recipient. In some implementations the recipient can receive an invitation to join the caller s voicemail system. In some implementations a separate message can be sent to the caller that the recipient is not part of the system. In some implementations the caller can be notified within the voicemail message that the recipient is not within the same voicemail system. In some implementations the system can send voicemail data to callers and recipients if they are in the same voicemail system or in separate voicemail systems.

The process can include voice mail boxes for individuals who share the same communication device. For example when coworkers share the same telephone during different times the coworkers can each have their own box. If a caller calls a recipient who uses the same communication device as the caller the caller can leave a voicemail message in the recipient s box and receive the voicemail message in her own box. Such use of separate boxes by users of different devices may be implemented for example by playing messages from a central server and tying boxes to log in identifiers rather than to particular devices or by separating storage on a single device and blocking one user from accessing another user s data.

In some implementations the communication device can allow Polly to search her outgoing voicemail messages using search terms. For example Polly may wish to find all messages regarding a particular topic. If she enters the term Bowser her communication device can search both voice mail and e mail messages for such a term. In some implementations Polly can select whether she wants to search in both e mail and voicemail messages or only one group of messages at a time. In some embodiments Polly can select whether she wants to search in both outgoing and incoming messages or only one group of messages at a time.

Polly may obtain a new telephone number in certain circumstances. For example Polly may move to a new state and change her cell phone number to fit a local area code. In such an instance the voicemail messages can be redirected to a new box . Alternatively pointers to the voicemail messages can be accessed by her new cell phone number. Also messages may be routed in other ways such as if Polly has a single device that delivers calls to her even if users dialed different numbers or where she can have calls routed to different devices such as using a service like GRAND CENTRAL.

In this example messaging occurs between two users Sidney and Mike Limeaux. Here Sidney can use his communication device to call Mike s communication device through a network . Mike s device does not receive the call and Sidney can thus leave an audio voicemail message. The voicemail message server can data with the audio message and send the data to the outbox of Sidney s communication device . Sidney s communication device can display a voicemail message header from the transmission of the voicemail message server . As shown in more detail a voicemail message can also be displayed e.g. if Sidney selects the displayed header . The voicemail message can be transmitted to Sidney s communication device from the voicemail message server . For example if Sidney wants to check to see when he asked Mike for advice on his possible sprain he can look at his outbox for outgoing voicemail messages. The actual audio file of the message may itself can be kept on the device or sent from he server to the device or may be stored on the server and played as audio transmitted over a telephone communication to the device like a hosted voice mail system.

The voicemail message server has several components that can be used to parse and provide data relating to a voicemail. The voicemail message server can have an interactive voice response IVR module a voice text translation module a personal information manager a voice over internet protocol VoIP module a voicemail collector and a voicemail manager as well as an audio files database and a user identification database .

The IVR module can receive voicemail data in both voice and touch tones to translate Sidney s input as data that is associated to the audio message. For example if Sidney presses a certain numeric code while listening to Mike s automated greeting he can ensure that the number from which he is calling is transmitted in the voicemail message . With audio input the voice text translation module can also provide further associated data to Sidney s audio message. For example the voice text translation module can provide a transcription of Sidney s audio message.

The personal information manager can provide details of a particular caller such as matching Sidney s name from the phone number he may use to leave the message. For example the user identification database can be used to provide data associated with a particular phone number.

As described further below the personal information manager can determine other details such as user preferences. In some implementations the user identification database can store user preferences. For example if Sidney Crosby prefers to be identified in voicemail message headers as Sid the Kid instead of Sidney Crosby this preference can be stored in the user identification database . The personal information manager can be used to provide the preference in the voicemail message header .

If Sidney uses a VoIP connection to call the VoIP module can ensure that the audio message is properly sequenced. For example the VoIP module can provide a jitter buffer to order data packets. The voicemail collector can piece together the data for the voicemail message with associated data. The associated data can include such information as a timestamp a name of the caller a number of the caller an audio file of the audio message and a transcription of the audio message.

The voicemail message can be transmitted using the voicemail manager . Once the voicemail message has been compiled from the audio message and associated data the contact information of the caller can be accessed from the user identification database . In some implementations the voicemail manager can use the caller s caller identification to retrieve the contact information for the caller. The voicemail message can then be transmitted with the information provided by the voicemail manager .

In some implementations the voicemail manager can determine which communication devices should receive the voicemail message . For example the voicemail manager may determine that Mike s communication device is outside the system and provide data to the user identification database that Mike cannot receive voicemail messages. In some implementations the voicemail manager can determine that Sidney s outbox can receive the voicemail message but that the voicemail message is unable to be received by Mike s communication device .

Data sources in the voicemail message server can provide the data for the voicemail message . The audio files database can provide the audio file in the voicemail message. For example the audio file may be associated with a URL and the display of the voicemail message may show a tag for the URL that a user can select. The audio file may also be attached to the voicemail message as a file is attached to an e mail message. The file may likewise be address via a variety of other appropriate mechanisms. In some implementations the audio files database can also provide the audio files for automated messaging such as Mike s recorded greeting. Like an address book the user identification database can provide information to assist the voicemail message server in providing information in the voicemail message . If Sidney calls from a landline phone unconnected to the system the phone number having been stored under his name the system can transmit the voicemail message to Sidney s communication device .

As discussed previously the personal information manager can assist in determining appropriate data for the voicemail message . In some implementations the caller can pre select settings for his voicemail outbox such as number of words within a header flagging messages for specific contacts and organizing the outbox by date or alphabetical order of the callee. For example Sidney can preset the first five words of the transcribed message as the header to the voicemail message . In some implementations the callee can pre select settings for voicemails being transmitted to his inbox and those settings can be transmitted to the caller s outbox. For example in the To field of the voicemail message the callee s name can be displayed as the callee displays it for his e mail messages.

In other implementations an administrator of the system can provide predetermined settings for the system . For example if the system is tied directly to a PBX for a company company voicemail messages can require specific data to be included in all outgoing voicemail messages as they are recorded.

As described previously above the voicemail manager can determine which devices and clients should receive the voicemail message . In some implementations the voicemail message can be sent to Sidney s e mail client. For example as shown in if Sidney is using a multimedia communication device that has both e mail and voicemail capabilities the voicemail message can be included in Sidney s outbox with outgoing e mail messages. In some implementations the voicemail message can be sent to Sidney s e mail outbox which may be accessed through a computer. For example Sidney may want to provide a list of communications with a particular individual as team captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins. In an e mail client Sidney can attach various e mail and voicemail messages to provide a history to a recipient. In some implementations Sidney can access the voicemail message through a telephone and forward the audio message to recipient. Likewise Sidney can forward the entire voicemail message to a recipient including the text based associated information without having to access such information.

Here a communication device can call a mobile device through a PSTN leave an audio message and receive a voicemail message with the audio message incorporated in the caller s outbox. The voicemail system can extrapolate data from the audio message and from other sources such as a voicemail database to provide associated data with the audio message. For example if the telephone number is stored within the voicemail database an associated recipient s name can be included in the voicemail message as associated data with the audio message. As discussed further below if the caller does not have an account within the system for example if the caller does not work for the company that operates the voicemail system various methods can be used to provide the voicemail message to the caller. In some implementations the voicemail database can associate the caller s number with an e mail address. The voicemail system can transmit the voicemail message to the system s e mail client . The e mail client can send the voicemail message to the caller s e mail address through the Internet. In some implementations the system can call the caller s number back and send an automated message inviting the caller to get a system account. Likewise the system can attach the audio message the caller left with the invitation.

The voicemail system can receive an audio message and determine specific associated data such as a transcription of the audio message and time stamp information to include with the audio message. The voicemail system can also store voicemail messages for one or more account holders. For example if the voicemail system is provided for a company the voicemail system can have an account for each employee. The voicemail system includes a Public Telephone Switched Network PTSN interface a speech front end module a voicemail front end module a voicemail server and a voicemail database .

The PTSN interface can receive telephone calls and transmit them to the speech front end module . For example if a callee does not pick up the phone after a certain number of rings to his communication device the PTSN interface can transmit the telephone call to the speech front end module . In some implementations the callee can set his device such that the PTSN interface automatically routes calls from particular callers to the speech front end module .

The speech front end module can record an audio message. For example after a greeting message has been played for the caller the caller can leave a message to be recorded by the speech front end module that can be stored in the voicemail database . As discussed further below the speech front end module can have various other roles. The speech front end module can transmit information to the voicemail front end module . The voicemail server can receive data from the voicemail front end module . In some implementations the voicemail front end module can communicate with devices outside the voicemail system . For example the voicemail front end module can transmit voicemail messages to the caller s communication device . The voicemail server can retrieve information from the voicemail database . For example the voicemail database can store an address book providing name title and other contact information for a particular phone number. Likewise the voicemail database can store previous voicemail messages. As described further below voicemail messages can be stored in various configurations. The voicemail database can also receive information from the voicemail server such as new voicemail messages. The voicemail server also can transmit information to the e mail server .

E mail messages can be stored in and managed by the e mail server . For example e mail messages may be receive from an e mail client of a user associated with the system e.g. for outgoing e mails or with other users where the e mail messages may be received over an network such as the Internet e.g. for incoming messages . E mail messages may also be generated automatically by various components in the system such as voicemail system .

The e mail server includes an e mail front end module and an e mail back end module . The e mail front end module can transmit and receive information from various sources such as the e mail client and the communication device . In some implementations e mail message information can be transmitted between an e mail back end module and an e mail client through the e mail front end module . In some implementations messages can be transmitted to the synch cache module . For example the synch cache module can communicate with other devices to update voicemail and e mail messages. Likewise the synch chance module can store data relating to voicemail and e mail messages for the communication device . For example the synch cache module can store headers in the communication device for voicemail messages with pointers to the voicemail message stored in another location. Alternatively the synch cache module can store entire messages in the communication device for a predetermined period of time such as five days. In some implementations the e mail server can also store voicemail messages. In some implementations the e mail server can include a common data store for all users. In some implementations the e mail server can include a data store for each user for both e mail and voicemail messages. In some implementations the e mail server can have separate voicemail and e mail data stores. Likewise voicemail message pointers to voicemail messages stored in the voicemail database can be stored in the e mail server .

The communication device can provide an interface to the caller to the e mail server and the voicemail system to communicate with users within the system or users outside the system. The communication device has a voicemail client an e mail client and a synch cache module . The synch cache module can communicate with the e mail front end module . For example if the caller sends an e mail the synch cache module can transmit the information to the e mail server. Likewise if the caller receives an e mail message it can be transmitted to the synch cache module. The synch cache module can also automatically update the communication device on a predetermined basis such as every five minutes or every time the device is activated. The e mail client can perform similar functions to the e mail client outside of the communication device . For example the caller can use the communication device to send and receive e mail messages. The voicemail client can communicate with the voicemail front end module to receive voicemail messages. Alternatively the voicemail client can receive voicemail messages from the synch cache module through the e mail server or the synch server .

The synch server can be used to synchronize the communication device and the voicemail system . For example the synchronizing server can determine that the voicemail server contains a message that the communication device has not yet received.

As discussed previously various methods can be used to provide the voicemail message to the caller if the caller does not have a voicemail account with system . For example if the caller is an employee of a corporation calling a vendor the vendor may not be within the same voicemail system as is the caller. The voicemail server may have caller identification to identify the caller. In some implementations the caller can receive an automated message to join the system while the outgoing messages of the caller can be saved for a predetermined period of time within the system . In some implementations the system can transmit an invitation to the caller s e mail address to join the system . In some implementations an e mail message can be sent to the recipient to remind them to invite the caller to the system .

As described above voicemail messages can be stored in various configurations. In some implementations a voicemail message can be stored in one file. In some implementations the voicemail message can be stored in separate groups such as an audio message file an transcription text file and an associated metadata file. The audio messages can be stored as single audio files in a single location for each voicemail message even if multiple users can access the files with pointers to the audio messages stored in locations such as the communication device and the e mail server . In some implementations each voicemail message can be stored in multiple locations. For example the communication device can store a voicemail message while the mobile device can store a duplicate of the voicemail message.

Other audio files such as audio greetings to a caller who has reached a callee s voicemail can be stored and played by various devices. As discussed previously the speech front end module can have various functions within the system . In some implementations the speech front end module can play an audio greeting. In some implementations the speech front end module can receive calls directly from a PBX . In some implementations a call can be authenticated in the speech front end module with a caller id and a personal identification number PIN combination.

In box a voicemail message is received. For example the voicemail message server can receive a voicemail message. In some implementations the voicemail message can include an audio message and caller identification. Alternatively the caller identification can be stored in a separate file. In some implementations the voicemail message can include metadata regarding the recipient and a timestamp.

At box caller identification is acquired. For example the user identification database can store caller identification information from a request. In some implementations the personal information manager can provide information to the voicemail manager . In some implementations the voicemail database can provide data to the voicemail server to determine caller identification. In some implementations the caller identification can be acquired using a PIN for an account. For example if Sidney Crosby calls from Wayne Gretsky s phone but wants to receive the outgoing voice message in his mailbox Sidney can call a central number and enter his account number and PIN to self identify. As described further below acquiring caller identification can also associate the caller identification with a user account.

In some implementations the caller identification can be stored in the communication device . For example if the user has a contacts database in their communication device the caller identification can be stored in the device. Likewise the e mail server can store the caller identification. In some implementations caller identification can be stored in two separate devices. For example if the caller s telephone number and name are stored on the communication device and the user s name and e mail address are stored on the e mail server the method can acquire caller identification from these two sources.

In box caller identification is associated with a user account. For example the user account database can identify Sidney Crosby s call with his account. In some implementations the association can be determined using the number the caller has dialed. As described above the association can be determined using acquiring caller identification to associate the caller identification with a user account.

In box a voicemail message is added to a user messaging outbox. For example the voicemail manager can transmit the voicemail message to the In some implementations the voicemail message can be added to a user messaging outbox using a pointer. For example the voicemail message can be stored in the voicemail database while the communication device can store the user messaging outbox with a pointer to the voicemail message. Alternatively the voicemail message can be stored in the e mail server which can also store the user messaging outbox. In other implementations the voicemail message can be stored in multiple locations including the user messaging outbox.

The method described herein may be performed in various implementations including implementations in which different boxes are performed in different orders. In some implementations boxes can be performed simultaneously.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that stores voicemail messages in a user account s outbox is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to store a voicemail message in a caller s messaging outbox of a user of the mobile device.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for storing a voicemail message in a caller s messaging outbox. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backward navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type of apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU can be one of a number of computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions to store a voicemail message in a caller s messaging outbox.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access an email application an instant messaging application a video service application a mapping application or an imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine a gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for storing a voicemail message in a caller s messaging outbox using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and a voicemail outbox application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and voicemail outbox manager processes associated with the voicemail outbox application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes .

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example if an audio message is in a language different than the caller s primary language the voicemail message can include a translation in the caller s primary language.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

Although a few implementations have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. Moreover other mechanisms for storing a voicemail message in a caller s messaging outbox may be used. In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

