---

title: Wireless and wireline messaging services
abstract: Automatic access to a secondary or alternate voicemail box while operating or using a first or primary voicemail box is provided. One touch access to an alternate voicemail box from a wireless telephone device is further provided, and access to a given voicemail box from a number of trusted telephone devices is provided without requiring users of the trusted devices to authenticate into the voicemail box (e.g., provide a password).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08265235&OS=08265235&RS=08265235
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08265235
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080403
---
This Application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 921 673 entitled Wireless Messaging filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Apr. 3 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

With modern wireline and wireless telephone systems it is common for a given user to have one or more wireline telephone voicemail boxes and one or more wireless voicemail boxes. For example a user may have a home wireline voicemail box an office wireline voicemail box a personal wireless voicemail box and a business wireless voicemail box. Such a user may receive voicemail messages at each such voicemail box and the user is required to check each voicemail box separately at periodic times to insure that messages left at each voicemail box are heard and or handled as required. Checking the voicemail messages at multiple voicemail boxes by separately connecting to each voicemail box is tedious and time consuming. Thus there is a need for providing a user access to multiple voicemail boxes via a single connection.

In addition often a user desires to connect to a given voicemail box from a number of different wireline or wireless devices but the user is required to pass through an authentication process for example entry of a password or other authentication identification to allow access to the voicemail box from a wireline or wireless telephone device not otherwise associated with the desired voicemail box. For example a user may desire to call his wireless voicemail box from the wireless or wireline telephone of a friend or relative. There is a need to allow automated access to a given voicemail box from one or more trusted telephone devices.

The above and other problems are solved by providing automatic access to a secondary or alternate voicemail box while operating or using a first or primary voicemail box by providing one touch access to an alternate voicemail box from a wireless telephone device and by providing access to a given voicemail box from a number of trusted telephone devices without requiring users of the trusted devices to authenticate into the voicemail box e.g. provide a password .

According to one embodiment a single access method and system are provided which enables one touch access to an alternate mailbox while in another mailbox. For example if a user operates a wireless telephone and a landline telephone each being associated with a voicemail box and a voice message is received at the wireless telephone voicemail box when the user checks the received voice message the user may be prompted to check messages on his her landline voicemail box. If the user desires to check messages on the landline voicemail box he she may be automatically connected to the landline voicemail box from within the wireless telephone voicemail box and the user may be returned to the wireless telephone voicemail box after checking messages at the landline voicemail box.

According to another embodiment a cross retrieval method and system are provided which enables one touch access to an alternate voicemail box from a wireless telephone. A landline telephone may be configured to send text messages to a wireless telephone each time a new voice message is deposited in a voicemail box associated with the landline telephone. The text message includes a telephone number for accessing the landline telephone voicemail box and at the wireless telephone the telephone number for accessing the landline telephone voicemail box is highlighted as a soft key. Selection of the soft key allows automatic connection to the landline voicemail box from the wireless telephone. While connected to the landline telephone voicemail box the user may conduct administrative actions on the landline voicemail box including changes to greetings and the like.

According to another embodiment a trusted list is provided that enables a voicemail box to be accessed by a number of trusted devices from which users may access the voicemail box for checking messages and for performing administrative actions on the voicemail box. Subscribers may configure a trusted list via a graphical user interface GUI interface that collects telephone number digits associated with trusted devices and sends the digits to an application server that interfaces a voicemail system associated with the subject voicemail box. When a user accesses the voicemail box from a device on the trusted list the user is immediately connected to the voicemail box to check messages and to perform all administrative actions without the need to separately authenticate into the voicemail box for example by providing a password .

These and other features and advantages which characterize the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing automatic access to a secondary or alternate voicemail box while operating or using a first or primary voicemail box to providing one touch access to an alternate voicemail box from a wireless telephone device and to providing access to a given voicemail box from a number of trusted telephone devices without requiring users of the trusted devices to authenticate into the voicemail box e.g. provide a password . These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

As will be described herein embodiments of the present invention are directed to interaction between wireless and wireline voicemail systems to allow users to access alternate wireless and wireline voicemail boxes from a single wireless or wireline telephone device without requiring the user to connect to each desired voicemail box separately. In addition embodiments of the present invention are directed to allowing access to a prescribed voicemail box from one or more wireless or wireline telephone devices that are designated as trusted devices that may access the prescribed voicemail box without passing through an authentication procedure. Systems for providing both wireless and wireline telephone services and for providing voicemail services within wireless and wireline telephone services are well know to those skilled in the art. The following is a description of a cable television services system that may provide one operating environment for a wireline telephone services system that may interact with one or more wireless telephone services systems according to embodiments of the present invention. As should be appreciated other types of wireline telephone services systems may equally be used for interacting with one or more wireless telephone services systems as described below with respect to .

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in a number of distributed computing environments where functionality is tailored for provision of customer support services. According to an actual embodiment the present invention is implemented in a cable television services system. is a simplified block diagram illustrating a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for the present invention.

Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modem CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the AF I set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box .

According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

According to one embodiment a single access method and system are provided which enables one touch access to an alternate mailbox while in another mailbox. For example if a user operates a wireless telephone and a landline telephone each being associated with a voicemail box and a voice message is received at the wireless telephone voicemail box when the user checks the received voice message the user may be prompted to check messages on his her landline voicemail box. If the user desires to check messages on the landline voicemail box he she may be automatically connected to the landline voicemail box from within the wireless telephone voicemail box and the user may be returned to the wireless telephone voicemail box after checking messages at the landline voicemail box.

For purposes of example of the single access method and system described herein consider that a user has two wireless telephones phones WP and WP each with its own voicemail box and one landline telephone LP with its own voicemail box. Continuing with the example WP and WP have the telephone number for LP as part of their subscriber database records. A caller calls WP and deposits a voice message. The user of WP receives a notification on WP of the received voice message. The user of WP dials into the voicemail box associated with WP to check the received message. After listening to the message the user may be prompted to check messages on the voicemail box associated with LP. For example a prompt may be provided such as To check messages on LP voicemail press 6. When the user presses 6 or takes other appropriately directed action the voicemail system of WP may prompt the user that he she is now retrieving messages for voicemail box number .

The fact that WP has the LP s phone number in its database means it has the same ability to retrieve messages as WP from the LP mailbox. There is no limit to the amount or type wireless wireline softclient of devices that can have the LP s phone number provisioned in their respective databases. The call flow looks at the dialed number identification service DNIS and the automatic number identification ANI for the incoming call to send the initial WP call into WP voicemail box. Once a mailbox is matched to the DNIS and ANI the system will authenticate the user into the mailbox. Once in the mailbox it will enable the prompting and functionality of the single access feature described above if it sees a preprogrammed number for an alternate mailbox in the database. If there is no number for the feature in the database then it will not play the prompt nor will it offer the functionality.

According to another embodiment the single access method and system are provided via an integrated or single access voicemail system through which a user may access one or more alternate voicemail boxes via a prescribed wireless or wireline voicemail system. is a simplified block diagram showing interaction between one or more wireline and or wireless telephone devices with an integrated voicemail box. Referring to an integrated mailbox is illustrated showing a primary wireline mailbox a secondary wireline mailbox a primary wireless mailbox and a secondary wireless mailbox . As should be appreciated each of the primary and secondary wireline and wireless mailboxes may be voicemail boxes associated with one or more wireline or wireless telephone users. For example the primary wireline mailbox may be associated with a user s home wireline telephone. The secondary wireline mailbox may be associated with the user s office wireline voicemail box the primary wireless mailbox may be associated with the user s personal wireless voicemail box and the secondary wireless mailbox may be associated with the user s business wireless mailbox. Each of the primary and secondary wireline and wireless voicemail boxes may be provided by a single telephone services provider that provides both wireline and wireless telecommunications services. Alternatively each of the illustrated primary and secondary wireline and wireless voicemail boxes may be provided by a different wireline and wireless telecommunication services providers.

As described above a given user may receive voicemail at each of the primary and secondary wireline and wireless voicemail boxes from wireline telephone devices or wireless telephone devices . According to one embodiment a user may access each of the primary and secondary wireline and wireless voicemail boxes via a single access connection through the user s wireless telephone device . Alternatively the user may access each of the primary and secondary wireline and wireless voicemail boxes via a wireline telephone device . The user may associate one or more alternate wireline or wireless voicemail boxes with a prescribed telephone device so that the user may be automatically connected to the designated one or more alternate voicemail boxes from the prescribed device. For example a user of the wireless device having a primary wireless voicemail box may designate the primary wireline mailbox the secondary wireline mailbox and the secondary wireless mailbox as alternate voicemail boxes that may be accessed automatically from the voicemail system associated with the primary voicemail box of the user s wireless device .

According to one embodiment a graphical user interface may be provided to the user via the user s telephone device for allowing the user to enter the telephone numbers associated with the alternate voicemail boxes. When telephone numbers associated with alternate voicemail boxes are received the telephone numbers may be stored in a subscriber database associated with the user for subsequent recall when the user desires access to a designated alternate voicemail box. According to one embodiment an automatic number identification ANI or a dialed number identification service DNIS associated with the primary voicemail box of the user s telephone device may be annotated with information associated with the one or more designated alternate voicemail boxes. For example an additional digit e.g. 2 may be applied to the telephone number associated with the primary voicemail box to indicate that one or more alternate voicemail boxes are associated with the primary wireless voicemail box.

According to an embodiment when a user of a prescribed telephone device accesses his her primary voicemail box the alternate voicemail box identification appended to the telephone number associated with the primary wireless voicemail box causes a search for telephone directory numbers associated with alternate voicemail boxes designated by the user. When the user is checking voice messages left on the user s primary voicemail box the user may then be prompted to check the one or more alternate voicemail boxes for voice messages left therein. If the user desires to check messages at the one or more alternate voicemail boxes the user may be automatically connected to the desired one or more alternate voicemail boxes without terminating his her connection to the primary voicemail box followed by re connection to the desired alternate voicemail boxes. Thus the user achieves single access connection to one or more voicemail boxes through one connection via the user s primary voicemail box. As should be appreciated connection to one or more alternate voicemail boxes as described herein may be initiated through any wireless or wireline voicemail box where access to alternate voicemail boxes has been enabled as described herein such as the primary or secondary wireless or wireline voicemail boxes illustrated in .

Having described an exemplary operating environment and system architecture for embodiments of the present invention above with respect to and is a logical flow diagram showing an illustrative routine for allowing access to one or more alternate voicemail boxes via a single voicemail box connection. As described below access may be obtained to multiple voicemail boxes from a primary mailbox but according to another embodiment only a single alternate voicemail box accessed from the primary voicemail box. Referring then to the routine begins at start operation and proceeds to operation where a voicemail message is received at a voicemail box for example at a wireless voicemail box of a wireless device . As described above with respect to the voicemail box at which a voicemail message is received at operation may be a primary or secondary wireless or wireline voicemail box for example associated with a user s personal business or other telephone device .

At operation a determination is made as to whether the voicemail box at which the voicemail message is received is associated with an alternate voicemail box. As described above with respect to if the user of the subject voicemail box has designated one or more alternate voicemail boxes that may be automatically accessed from the user s wireless or wireline telephone device an identification associated with the user s primary voicemail box will be annotated with information for identifying the one or more alternate voicemail boxes. For example the ANI associated with the voicemail box at which the voicemail is received at operation may be annotated with one or more additional digits to indicate that one or more alternate voicemail boxes has been associated with the primary voicemail box.

After the voicemail is received at the wireless voicemail box at operation if the user selects to enter his her primary voicemail box to receive voice messages the telephone number associated with the user s primary voicemail box may be sent to the voicemail system associated with the user s primary voicemail box. As should be appreciated the user may access the alternate voicemail box as described herein without receipt of a voice message at operation . That is the user may obtain access to the alternate voicemail box es by simply accessing the primary voicemail box followed by accessing an alternate voicemail box as described herein.

At operation at the voicemail system associated with the user s primary voicemail box the telephone number associated with the user s primary voicemail box is parsed to determine whether information is added to the telephone number identifying whether one or more alternative voicemail boxes has been associated with the primary voicemail box. For example if the voicemail received at operation is received at the user s personal wireless telephone device having a telephone number of 555 123 4567 an additional digit for example 2 may be added to the beginning of the telephone number string or may be appended to the end of the telephone number string to indicate to the voicemail system that one or more alternate voicemail boxes has been associated with the primary voicemail box. As should be appreciated the use of the word primary for this example is meant to indicate the voicemail box to which the initial voice message is received at operation or from which a user initiates a connection to an alternate or secondary voicemail box.

When the telephone number associated with the primary voicemail box is received at the voicemail system if no information identifying an alternate voicemail box is provided the voicemail system will provide the user access to voice messages stored for the primary voicemail box only. On the other hand if information identifying an alternate voicemail box is provide as described above the voicemail system associated with the primary voicemail box will search a database associated with the subscriber user to determine which one or more alternate voicemail boxes are associated with the primary voicemail box.

At operation a prompt may be provided by the voicemail system to the user to indicate to the user that in addition to voice messages received at the user s primary voicemail box the user may retrieve voice messages received at one or more alternate voicemail boxes. For example a prompt such as To retrieve voice messages from your home wireline voicemail box press 6 may be provided. If multiple alternate voicemail boxes are associated with the primary voicemail box the prompt may provide access to the multiple voicemail boxes. For example a prompt may be provided such as To retrieve voice messages from your home wireline voicemail box press 6 to retrieve voice messages from your business wireline voicemail box press 7 to retrieve voice messages from your office wireless voicemail box press 8 and the like.

At operation if the user decides to retrieve voice messages from an alternate voicemail box the user may be automatically connected to the desired voicemail box for retrieving desired voice messages. At operation the user may process voice messages left at the alternate voicemail box and at operation the user may return to the primary voicemail box from which the routine began. According to one embodiment the user may be provided a prompt during operation such as To return to your primary voicemail box press 1. After the user returns to the primary voicemail box or otherwise terminates interaction with the primary or alternate voicemail boxes the routine ends at operation .

According to another embodiment a cross retrieval method and system are provided which enables one touch access to an alternate voicemail box from a wireless telephone. A landline telephone may be configured to send text messages to a wireless telephone each time a new voice message is deposited in a voicemail box associated with the landline telephone. The text message includes a telephone number for accessing the landline telephone voicemail box and at the wireless telephone the telephone number for accessing the landline telephone voicemail box is highlighted as a soft key. Selection of the soft key allows automatic connection to the landline voicemail box from the wireless telephone. While connected to the landline telephone voicemail box the user may conduct administrative actions on the landline voicemail box including changes to greetings and the like.

For an example of cross retrieval consider that a landline telephone LP is configured to send text messages to a wireless telephone WP every time a new message is deposited in the voicemail box of LP. When a message is deposited into the voicemail box of LP a text notification is sent from LP s voicemail box to the telephone device that is designated to receive the notification via configuration of the designated telephone device telephone number at LP. Embedded in the text message sent to the designated device e.g. WP are numbers that can be used to call the LP voicemail system back to retrieve the message. The embedded digits are highlighted as a soft key by the receiving handset if available . When the user selects the soft key or takes another directed action the receiving telephone device calls the voicemail system associated with LP to retrieve the message. The voicemail system sees the digit string DNIS and sends the call into a call flow. This call flow takes the ANI for the incoming call from the designated receiving telephone device and appends a digit for example a 2 to the front of the digit string. The digit ANI string is sent to the subscriber database associated with LP for a mailbox match. The system matches this digit ANI string with a pre configured digit string on LP s mailbox and authenticates the caller into LP s mailbox. This automatic authentication gives the user access to voicemail messages on the LP mailbox and full administrative privileges to the mailbox.

According to another embodiment a user of a primary telephone device may be notified of the receipt of a voice message at an alternate or secondary voicemail box associated with the user s primary voicemail box. That is according to this embodiment when a voice message is deposited at an alternate voicemail box associated with the user s primary voicemail box as described above with respect to a text or voice notification may be sent to the user at the user s primary telephone device to alert the user that a voice message has been deposited at the alternate voicemail box. is a flow diagram showing an illustrative routine for notifying a primary telephone device of a received voicemail message at an associated secondary telephone device.

The routine illustrated in begins at start operation and proceeds to operation where a voicemail is received at a wireline or a wireless voicemail box that has been designated as an alternate voicemail box to the user s primary telephone device as described above with reference to . At operation a determination is made as to whether a notification should be sent to the associated primary telephone device . As described above with reference to the telephone number associated with the alternate voicemail box at which the voicemail is received may be annotated with information to indicate that the receiving voicemail box is associated with another voicemail box for example the voicemail box associated with the user s wireless telephone device . As described above with reference to an additional digit or digits may be added to the telephone number associated with the receiving telephone device such that when the voice message is received at operation the voicemail system associated with the receiving telephone device may be programmed to parse the telephone number to determine if additional information is present indicating that a notification should be sent to a different telephone device for example the user s wireless telephone device to notify the user that a voice message has been deposited in the alternate voicemail box.

At operation if a notification to the user is prescribed a voice or text message may be sent to the associated wireless or wireline device to notify the user that a voice message has been deposited in one of the one or more alternate voicemail boxes. For example if the user has designated her home wireline voicemail box as an alternate voicemail box to her personal wireless telephone device then upon receipt of a voice message at her home wireline voicemail box a text message may be sent to the user at her wireless telephone device indicating that a voice message has been deposited at her home wireline voicemail box. Alternatively a canned voice message may be sent to the user at her wireline or wireless device that may be played to the user for example You have received a voice message at your home telephone voicemail to indicate to the user the receipt of the voice message.

At operation the user may be provided a prompt to allow the user to automatically connect to the receiving voicemail box to allow the user to retrieve the deposited voice message. For example a text message may be provided to the user such as You have received a voice message at your home wireline voicemail box . . . . To retrieve the voice message press 5. If the user decides to retrieve the voice message the user may be automatically connected to the receiving voicemail box from her wireline or wireless telephone devices for retrieving the voice message. If the user decides not to retrieve the deposited voice message at the present time the user may retrieve the voice message at another time as described above with reference to . The routine ends at operation .

According to another embodiment a trusted list is provided that enables a voicemail box to be accessed by a number of trusted devices for example up to 15 devices from which users may access the voicemail box for checking messages and for performing administrative actions on the voicemail box. Subscribers may configure a trusted list via a graphical user interface GUI into their subscriber account. This GUI collects digits associated with trusted devices that may access the subscriber s voicemail box and sends the digits to an application server that interfaces the voicemail system. The application server adds the collected digits to the subscriber s voicemail database record. These digits will be used to authenticate a call based on ANI into the voicemail box that in which it is stored. As an example consider that landline telephone LP has the telephone numbers for a first wireless telephone WP and a second wireless telephone WP added to database record for LP. WP calls LP and no one answers. The call rolls to the voicemail box for LP and a greeting starts to play. While the greeting is playing the caller presses a key designated for entering voicemail for the called telephone number. When the designated key is pressed the system does a lookup on the trusted list of telephone numbers for the dialed number and sees that the ANI for WP is on the list. The voicemail system for LP immediately launches the caller into the voicemail box for LP without requiring additional authentication from the caller e.g. entry of a password . The caller may then check messages on the LP voicemail box and conduct normal administrative actions on the LP voicemail box such as changes to greetings and the like.

According to another embodiment one or more wireless or wireline telephone devices may be designated by a user as trusted devices that may be used to access one or more wireless or wireline voicemail boxes without requiring authentication of the user seeking access to the one or more voicemail boxes. According to this embodiment a user may be provided a graphical user interface at his or her wireless or wireline telephone device through which the user may enter the telephone numbers of one or more telephone devices that may be used to access a given voicemail box without authentication. For example a user may desire automatic access to a voicemail box associated with his her wireless telephone device from his her business wireline telephone device his her spouse s wireless telephone device his her child s wireless or wireline telephone device and the like.

According to this embodiment the telephone numbers associated with each device to be designated as a trusted device may be entered and stored in a subscriber database associated with the user s voicemail system and associated with the voicemail box on the user s voicemail system to which the trusted devices will have access. According to one embodiment the telephone numbers associated with the trusted devices may be annotated with information identifying the devices as having automatic access to a particular voicemail box without requiring authentication from a user of a given trusted device. Thus if a call is received to a designated voicemail box from one of the one or more trusted devices the calling party may be granted automatic access to the designated voicemail box without being required to provide a password or other authenticating information. For example if a user has designated his her business wireline telephone device as a trusted device for access to his her personal wireless telephone device then when the user dials a voicemail box associated with his her personal wireless telephone device from his her business wireline device the user will be granted automatic access to the desired voicemail box without being required to provide a password or other authenticating information. According to an embodiment once a user has access to a given voicemail box from a trusted device the user may perform all applicable operations to the called voicemail box including voicemail box maintenance actions such as changes to greetings and the like.

As described herein methods and systems provide automatic access to one or more wireline or wireless voicemail boxes via a voicemail processing system of a starting telephone device without requiring separate connection to the one or more alternate voicemail boxes. In addition one or more trusted wireline or wireless telephone devices may be designated for accessing a prescribed voicemail box so that when a call is received at the prescribed voicemail box from one of the one or more trusted devices access to the prescribed voicemail box may be granted to the calling party without requiring authentication from the calling party. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

