---

title: Electronic apparatus
abstract: An electronic apparatus includes a first part, a second part, and a rotating holding part configured to rotatably hold the second part to the first part, wherein, in addition to a closed state in which the first part and the second part are placed upon one another and an opened state in which the second part is apart from the first part so that both first and second parts are opened, an intermediate state is provided in which respective opposite faces of the first and second parts are apart by a predetermined space and thereby radiation is available, and a lifting mechanism is provided to cause an end of the second part to be apart from a corresponding end of the first part in the rotating holding part so that the opposite faces of both parts are apart by the predetermined space and thus the intermediate state is created.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07652877&OS=07652877&RS=07652877
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 07652877
owner_city: Kawasaki
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080305
---
This application is a U.S. continuation application filed under 35 USC 111 a claiming benefit under 35 USC 120 and 365 c of PCT application JP2005 016817 filed Sep. 13 2005. The foregoing application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to an electronic apparatus and in particular to an electronic apparatus of a clamshell type.

As one example of an electronic apparatus of a clamshell type shows a so called notebook type personal computer having two parts i.e. an LCD part and a body part . Then when the personal computer is used as shown in the LCD part is opened from the body part while when the personal computer is not used the LCD part is closed to the body part . In this configuration in the closed state compact portability is provided adhesion of dust dirt to an LCD screen provided on the LCD part can be avoided and also damage to the LCD screen can be avoided.

Not only such a notebook type personal computer but also a clamshell type cellular phone a clamshell type portable game console a clamshell type portable DVD player or such belongs to an electronic apparatus of a clamshell type.

In the related art in the notebook type personal computer as an information equipment of a clamshell type radiation is achieved by means of in addition to forced radiation with the use of a fan or such acting as radiating means for radiating from internal units such as a CPU and so forth upon operation of the personal computer through a radiation fan discharging hole natural radiation is utilized with the use of a housing surface including a keyboard a palm rest and so forth together to seek more efficient radiation.

However in the case of the notebook type personal computer shown in as one example in an operation environment see in which the personal computer is used with the LCD part kept closed the housing surface including the keyboard and the palm rest is covered by the LCD part and thus is not exposed. Therefore the above mentioned natural radiation does not function and thus the radiation efficiency may degrade. In order to avoid radiation efficiency degradation it may be necessary to improve the forced radiation efficiency by providing another fan for example.

The present invention has been devised in consideration of the above mentioned problem and an object of the present invention is to provide a configuration such that in an electronic apparatus of a clamshell type a common radiation design can be applied to both an operation environment in which for example the above mentioned LCD part is opened and another operation environment in which the LCD part is closed.

For example in a field of such a notebook type personal computer a required performance upgrades year by year along therewith a heat generation rate of a processor thereof increases accordingly. Recently a heat generation rate of a CPU in a potable thin type notebook type personal computer is more than 30 W and radiation design thereof may become a serious problem. A heat generation rate of not only a CPU but also other internal components i.e. a memory controller a graphic controller or such increases along with upgrade of the performance of the notebook type personal computer and thus the radiation design thereof should be made also in consideration thereof.

When such a notebook type personal computer i.e. an electronic apparatus of a clamshell type is designed TDP Thermal Design Power is determined for each of internal components such as a CPU a memory controller a graphic controller and so forth and the design should be made in consideration of TDP.

If only forced radiation such as that with the use of a fan or such for sufficiently radiating in consideration of TDP is used a required capacity of a forced radiation device such as a fan or such increases and thus miniaturization and reduction in the weight of the apparatus may be obstructed. In order to solve this problem as mentioned above natural radiation such as that with the use of the keyboard the palm rest and so forth may be considered in the radiation design.

In such radiation design restriction may be required such that an operation frequency of a CPU is reduced to reduce heat generation from the CPU for a case where natural radiation may not be relied upon in such an operation environment see in which as mentioned above the LCD part is closed. In this case the user s operation of the personal computer may be restricted accordingly.

That is as an operation environment of the user for example in an office as shown in an operation environment of desktop style is available in which an external monitor an external keyboard an external mouse and so forth are connected to the personal computer and the personal computer itself is used as a processing unit. In particular when a docking station a port replicator or such is applied such an operation environment is used.

In such an operation environment in which the personal computer is used with the LCD part kept closed natural radiation with the use of the keyboard the palm rest and so forth does not function as mentioned above and thus such a way to restrict the operation frequency of the CPU or such mentioned above may be required to reduce heat generation from the internal components.

In order to eliminate the necessity to restrict the user s operation condition it is necessary to carry out radiation design such that sufficient radiation can be achieved even in the above mentioned state in which the LCD part is kept closed.

According to the present invention in such an electronic apparatus of a clamshell type including a first part and a second part i.e. in the above mentioned example the body part and the LCD part respectively a rotating holding part is provided to rotatably hold the second part to the first part and in addition to a closed state in which the first part and the second part are placed upon one another and an opened state in which the second part is apart from the first part so that the first and second parts are opened from one another an intermediate state is provided in which respective opposite faces of the first and second parts are apart by a predetermined space and thereby radiation is available therethrough and a lifting mechanism is provided to cause an end of the second part to be apart from a corresponding end of the first part in the rotating holding part so that the opposite faces of both parts are apart by the predetermined space and thus the intermediate state is provided.

In this configuration in the rotating holding part connecting the first part with the second part the lifting mechanism is provided to lift one of the first and the second part from the other so as to create the intermediate state. As a result it is possible to create the state i.e. the intermediate state even which is close to the above mentioned closed state in which the respective opposite faces of the first part and the second part are apart from one another.

In this intermediate state the first part and the second part are apart from one another while they face one another with a short distance. As a result in this state the same as in the closed state adherence of dirt dust to the opposite faces damage to the opposite faces or such can be avoided.

Further in the intermediate state air circulation is available between the opposite faces through the space provided therebetween. Therefore natural radiation is available from the opposite faces and thus natural radiation effect the same as in the opened state can be obtained.

This notebook type personal computer has in addition of the opened state as shown in and the closed state as shown in an intermediate state shown in . Thus the notebook type personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention has a total of the three different states.

That is the notebook type personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention has an outline view the same as that of the notebook type personal computer in the related art shown in in the opened state. Further in the same way the notebook type personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention has an outline view the same as that of the notebook type personal computer in the related art shown in in the closed state.

Therefore hereinafter the notebook type personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention may be referred simply to as a personal computer or a notebook type personal computer and also respective components of the personal computer mean those of the personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention unless otherwise noted.

As shown in the notebook type personal computer generally has two parts i.e. a body part as a first part and an LCD part as a second part.

The LCD part has an LCD acting as a display screen. The body part has a keyboard which is an operation part. The LCD part is rotatably supported by the body part by means of a hinge part acting as a rotating holding part by means of a well know hinge function of a hinge included in the hinge part .

When using the notebook type personal computer a user as an operator opens the LCD part from the body part by rotating the LCD part on the hinge of the hinge part which acts as a rotation axis for the opened state shown in from the closed state shown in .

In the opened state the user places his or her wrist of the palm on a palm rest which is a part of a housing of the body part and in this state his or her fingers are used to hit keys of the keyboard so as to input various instructions data or such to the personal computer .

On the LCD processing results finally obtained from processing according to the user s operation on the keyboard or such are displayed. The user sees them to obtain necessary information from the personal computer .

Further in the inside of the personal computer control devices such as a CPU a memory controller a graphic controller and so forth are provided not shown and generate heat accordingly when they operate. The heat thus generated from the control devices included in the inside of the personal computer should be radiated to the outside of the personal computer . for this purpose the personal computer has a forced radiation fan inside of the body part and also a radiation fan discharging hole is provided for discharging hot air forcibly discharged by the forced ration fan.

Further for the purpose of radiating heat generated by the above mentioned control devices natural radiation is utilized through a surface of a housing of the personal computer simply referred to as a housing surface hereinafter including the keyboard and the palm rest .

Further as shown in the personal computer can be used also in an operation environment of desktop style in which the personal computer is used as a processing unit in the closed state. In this case since the personal computer is in the closed state the LCD and the keyboard provided on respective opposite faces opposite to one another of the LCD part and the body part cannot be used since the LCD and the keyboard are hidden as inner surfaces placed on one another in the personal computer in the closed state.

Instead thereof an external monitor an external keyboard and an external mouse are connected to the personal computer and they are used as a display part and an operation part of the personal computer respectively. As a result the user uses the personal computer itself only as a processing unit.

In this operation environment of desktop style as mentioned above the personal computer is used in the closed state as shown in thus the housing surface including the keyboard and the palm rest provided on the opposite faces of the LCD part and the body part opposite to one another are hidden as internal faces of the LCD part and the body part being placed on one another in the personal computer . Therefore natural radiation with the use of the keyboard the palm rest and so forth cannot function.

Therefore in the radiation design of the personal computer as a compensation for the above mentioned fact that the natural radiation cannot function measures are required such that another forced radiation means is provided a capacity of the existing means is increased or the user s operation is restricted for controlling heat generation such that the operation frequency of the CPU is reduced when the personal computer is used in the operation environment of desktop style or such for example.

In order to solve this problem the intermediate state such as that shown in is provided in the embodiment of the present invention instead of the closed state for the above mentioned operation environment of desktop style.

That is in the notebook type personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention a lifting mechanism for lifting the LCD part is provided in the hinge part of the LCD part . The intermediate state is provided as a result of the LCD part being lifted by the lifting mechanism so that a space is created between the LCD part and the body part . Thereby natural air circulation is available through the thus created space. As a result radiation effect the same as that in the opened state shown in is available and thus radiation through the housing surface including the keyboard and the palm rest of the body part is available in the intermediate state the same as in the case where the personal computer is used in the opened state.

It is assumed that terminal design is made in such a condition that a thermal resistance value in a case where heat generation from the CPU in the state in which the LCD part is opened is 30 W is approximately 1.5 C. W. In this case radiation design is made assuming that the thermal resistance value increases to approximately 1.7 C. W in the state in which the LCD part is closed while radiation of approximately 3.5 W is made from the housing surface including the keyboard and the palm rest .

In the first embodiment of the present invention as mentioned above the intermediate state is created in which the space is provided between the LCD part and the body part natural air circulation is thus available through the space and as a result radiation from the housing surface including the keyboard and the palm rest is available the same as in the case where the LCD part is opened in the above mentioned opened state. As a result of the radiation the same as in the opened state in which the LCD part is opened being thus available the above mentioned assumption of the radiation of approximately 3.5 W from the housing surface including the keyboard and the palm rest can also be used as it is in the intermediate state. That is in the intermediate state shown in it is possible to adopt the radiation design the same as that for the opened state of .

Specifically the space S see of approximately 20 mm is provided between the opposite faces of the body part and the LCD part opposite to one another. As a result natural air circulation is available through the space S so that radiation is accelerated and thus it is possible to control the above mentioned thermal resistance value to be low.

That is as shown in a lifting mechanism of a coil spring is mounted to the hinge part a self stretching function of the coil spring with its resilient force lifts the LCD part from the body part together with the hinge of the hinge part approximately 20 mm to rotate the LCD part on the latch parts and acting as a rotation axis see . Thereby the space S is provided between the LCD part and the body part .

Further in this case a configuration is provided to lock together the latch parts and when the LCD part is thus lifted from the body part as shown in . As a result as shown in when the LCD part is thus lifted together with the hinge of the hinge part and thus the space S is provided between the LCD part and the body part the latch parts and are kept engaged together so that respective extending end parts i.e. the left end parts in at which the latch parts and are provided respectively of the LCD part and the body part are kept engaged together.

As shown in the latch part provided to the LCD part is configured by a loop shaped member having an opening part at the center thereof. On the other hand the latch part provided to the body part includes a latch part body and a latch pin . The latch part body is configured to rotate in directions indicated by an arrow R shown in on a rotation shaft

In the latch parts and shown in a state shown in is a state in which the latch parts and are locked together. In this state the latch pin of the latch part of the body part is inserted into the opening part of the loop shaped member of the LCD part so that the LCD part is rotatably held by the body part on these engagement parts at which both parts and are engaged with one another. As a result as shown in when the hinge part is lifted by the lifting mechanism of the coil spring as shown the above mentioned intermediate state the state shown in is created.

In order to open the LCD part from the body part to bring the personal computer into the above mentioned opened state the latch part body of the latch part of the body part is rotated clockwise in on the rotation shaft . As a result the lock pin is removed from the opening part of the loop shaped member of the latch part of the LCD part . As a result the respective latch parts and of the LCD part and the body part are disengaged from one another and thereby the LCD part can be opened from the body part as a result of the LCD part being rotated with respect to the body part on the hinge part .

A lifting lock mechanism is provided in the personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention and will now be described.

When opening the LCD part from the body part from the above mentioned intermediate state the user first presses the hinge part of the LCD part downward against the resilient force of the coil spring this step is refereed to as a first step for finally opening the LCD part into the above mentioned opened state third step described later . The lifting lock mechanism is provided such that thanks to a locking function of the lifting lock mechanism the LCD part and the body part are placed on one another without space to become approximately parallel to one another and thus the above mentioned closed state is once stably established.

As shown in in this example in the coil spring a movable shaft which is movable vertically in is provided. Further a lock pin is provided to prevent vertical movement of the movable shaft as a result of the lock pin engaging with a bottom end part of the movable shaft as shown in .

Then a further configuration is provided such that when this closed state is established i.e. when the state of i.e. the LCD part and the body part are approximately parallel to one another is established the above mentioned first step the latch parts and of the LCD part and the body part once engaged and locked together as mentioned above with reference to is automatically disengaged from one another second step . This configuration is available as a result of for example a link mechanism being provided such that as a result of the LCD part being pressed downward by the user against the resilient force F of the coil spring as mentioned above to bring the personal computer into the state of from the state of first step the lock pin automatically engages with the bottom end part of the movable shaft and in response thereto the latch part body of the latch part automatically rotates clockwise to disengage the latch parts and from one another second step .

By thus providing such a configuration when the hinge part of the LCD part is pressed downward by the user against the resilient force F of the coil spring to bring the personal computer into the closed state first i.e. the above mentioned first step thereby the latch parts and is automatically disengaged from one another second step and as a result the LCD part can be opened from the body part by the user to then finally bring the personal computer into the above mentioned opened state i.e. the above mentioned third step .

It is noted that when the personal computer is not used or when the personal computer is carried it is preferable to bring the personal computer into the above mentioned closed state i.e. the state in which with the locking function of the above mentioned lifting lock mechanism the LCD part is pressed downward and is thus placed on the body part in the approximately parallel state together with the body part i.e. the state of .

In this closed state the opposite faces of the LCD part and the body part opposite to one another are placed on one another closely so that the above mentioned space S is not inserted therebetween. As a result the outline dimensions of the personal computer become minimum and thus portability is superior and also the personal computer may be easily held in a bag or such. It is noted that a configuration may be provided such that engagement of the latch part and is available in the closed state even with the above mentioned configuration of automatically disengaging the latch parts and in response to the hinge part of the LCD part being pressed downward and the lock pin engaging with the bottom part of the movable shaft .

Further in this closed state since the LCD part and the body part are closely placed on one another and thus the space S is not inserted therebetween the LCD of the LCD part and the keyboard of the body part are hidden closely in the inner surfaces on which the LCD part and the body part are placed on one another. As a result in comparison to the above mentioned intermediate state adherence of dust dirt to the LCD the keyboard and so forth can be effectively avoided and also damage thereto can be effectively avoided.

Further a cable connecting the body part and the LCD part together electrically may preferably be shaped like a coil spring. Thereby when the LCD part is lifted by the resiliently extending function of the coil spring mounted to the hinge part as mentioned above also the cable can easily extend accordingly.

As shown in the cable for electrically connecting the body part and the LCD part together is shaped like a coil spring. As a result when the LCD part is lifted by the self stretching function of the coil spring i.e. the above mentioned intermediate state the cable can easily extend accordingly. As a result even when such a configuration is provided that the LCD part is lifted with respect to the body part by the self stretching function of the coil spring mounted to the hinge part the electric connection between the body part and the LCD part can be positively maintained.

Next a personal computer in a second embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to .

The personal computer in the second embodiment of the present invention is the same as the personal computer in the first embodiment of the present invention described above except for an auxiliary fan and a control circuit thereof. Therefore duplicate description will be omitted.

In the personal computer in the first embodiment radiation effect is obtained from natural air circulation as a result of the above mentioned intermediate state is created in which the space S is inserted between the LCD part and the body part for air circulation. However when TDP of the controllers such as the CPU or such inside of the personal computer increases radiation may be insufficient only by the above mentioned radiation effect of the natural air circulation and the above mentioned forced radiation effect of the forced radiation fan. In such a case further measures are required to increase the radiation effect of the personal computer such as to increase the space S between the LCD part and the body part for example.

However further restriction to the user s operation of the personal computer may be required when the space S between the LCD part and the body part is increased. In this viewpoint increase in the space S has a limit. Therefore in the second embodiment of the present invention the auxiliary fan is provided to improve the forced radiation effect by means of forced air circulation provided by the auxiliary fan .

That is a configuration is provided such that the auxiliary fan is provided in the space S between the LCD part and the body part in the above mentioned intermediate state and a control circuit not shown to control the auxiliary fan is provided. As a result it is possible to effectively reduce the required capacity of the existing CPU radiation fan for example.

For example a program to control operation of the CPU of the personal computer and a control circuit configuration are provided such that under the control of the CPU of the personal computer the following operation is carried out automatically When the user closes the LCD part into the closed state and disengages the lock pin from the movable shaft in the lifting lock mechanism the self stretching function of the coil spring mounted to the hinge part lifts the LCD part and thus the above mentioned intermediate state is established. Then this fact is detected by the CPU through a sensor. The CPU then starts power supply to the auxiliary fan and thus the auxiliary fan starts blowing air through the space S between the LCD part and the body part .

Further a configuration is provided such that when the hinge part is thus lifted by the self stretching function of the coil spring simultaneously the auxiliary fan mounted to the hinge part is lifted to be exposed. Then the air flowing function of the auxiliary fan causes the forced air circulation in the space S between the LCD part and the body part and as a result it is possible to obtain radiation effect larger than the radiation effect obtained only from the natural air circulation through the space S between the body part and the LCD part in the intermediate state.

According to design of the related art a temperature distribution is different between the case where the LCD part is closed in the closed state and the case where the LCD part is opened in the opened state . Therefore different radiation designs may be required based on different conditions between the case where the LCD part is closed in the closed state and the case where the LCD part is opened in the opened state . For example design for arranging temperature sensors for controlling driving of the forced radiation fan may have to be made separately for each of these different conditions in the related art.

In contrast thereto in the above mentioned respective embodiments of the present invention in the intermediate state which is close to the closed state the space S is provided between the LCD part and the body part . As a result a heat distribution in the opened state can also be applied to the intermediate state instead of the closed state in common in radiation design. Therefore it is possible to carry out optimization based on the common heat distribution for the number and an arrangement of temperature sensors provided inside of the personal computer for each of the opened state and the intermediate state. Further it is also possible to select optimum arrangement and optimum capability of the forced radiation fan s based on the common conditions for each of the opened state and the intermediate state.

While the invention herein disclosed has been described by means of specific embodiments and applications thereof numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention set forth in the claims.

