---

title: Banded papers, smoking articles and methods
abstract: Wrapper for cigarette manufacture includes transversely extending band regions applied by a printing technique, such as gravure printing. The band regions comprise starch, an anti-wrinkling agent such as 1,2 propylene glycol or glycerin, and optionally calcium carbonate. Any suitable printing technique can be used to apply the aqueous solution to the banded regions. The pattern of banded regions may be bands, stripes, two-dimensional arrays, undulated regions, and the like along and/or around the tobacco rod. The pattern can be applied in one or more layers. The pattern may be configured so that when a smoking article is placed on a substrate, at least two longitudinal locations along the length of the tobacco rod have film-forming compound located only on sides of the smoking article not in contact with the substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08925556&OS=08925556&RS=08925556
owner: Philip Morris USA Inc.
number: 08925556
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080523
---
The present application is a continuation in part of and claims priority through each of the following applications the entire contents of each identified application is hereby incorporated by reference 

 i PCT IB2007 002118 filed Monday Apr. 2 2007 in the names of Rajesh Garg and Tony A. Phan which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 787 540 filed on Mar. 31 2006 

This disclosure relates generally to a smoking article and more particularly a banded wrapper for use in cigarette manufacturing related materials processes and methods. Anti wrinkling agents specially formulated oxidized starch material smoking articles and wrappers which exhibit a low ignition propensity and or low self extinguishment characteristics and patterns for banded regions are disclosed.

As part of efforts to reduce the incidence of accidental fires resulting from untended smoking articles various jurisdictions have imposed are imposing and may impose in the future limitations on the burning characteristics of smoking articles. One measure of the tendency of a smoking article to cause ignition of an underlying substrate is the Ignition Propensity value. To satisfy those increasingly common governmental requirements the Ignition Propensity value or IP value for a smoking article should preferably be no greater than about 25 . More preferably the IP value should be no greater than about 20 and even more preferably no greater than about 10 . Accordingly efforts meet such limits are undertaken by various manufacturers of smoking articles.

Reduced IP values typically are associated with a tendency for the smoking article to self extinguish during smoldering between puffs. Generally speaking consumers do not like to re light a cigarette during their smoking experience. A measure of the tendency for a smoking article to self extinguish during free burn has been developed and is known as the Self Extinction value. The Self Extinction or SE value has been found to be a useful indicia to evaluate the likelihood of consumer satisfaction for a smoking article where various techniques for IP reduction have been employed. The average Self Extinction Average value for a smoking article should preferably be no greater than about 80 and or the Self Extinction at 0 value should be no greater than about 50 and more preferably no greater than about 25 .

Ignition Propensity or IP is a standard test conducted as set forth in ASTM E 2187 04 Standard Test Method for Measuring the Ignition Strength of Smoking articles which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference thereto. Ignition propensity measures the probability that a smoking article when smoldering and placed on a substrate will generate sufficient heat to maintain smoldering of the tobacco rod. Low values for IP are desirable as such values correlate with a reduced likelihood that a smoldering smoking article when inadvertently left unattended upon a substrate will cause combustion in the substrate.

Self Extinguishment or SE herein is a reference to smoldering characteristics of a smoking article under free burn conditions. To evaluate SE a laboratory test is conducted at a temperature of 23 C. 3 C. and relative humidity of 55 5 both of which should be monitored by a recording hygrothermograph. Exhaust hood s remove combustion products formed during testing. Prior to testing smoking articles to be tested are conditioned at 55 5 relative humidity and 23 C. 3 C. for 24 hours. Just prior to testing the smoking articles are placed in glass beakers to assure free air access.

SE testing takes place within an enclosure or test box. A single port smoking machine or an electric lighter is used to ignite the smoking articles for the test. During testing an apparatus or angle holder holds the smoking articles to be tested by holding an end at angles of 0 horizontal 45 and or 90 vertical . Preferably twenty 20 smoking articles are tested at each of the 0 45 and 90 positions. If more than one apparatus is used the apparatuses are preferably positioned such that the smoking articles face away from each other to avoid cross interference. If a smoking article goes out before the front line of the smoldering coal reaches the tipping paper the outcome is scored as self extinguishment on the other hand if the smoking article continues smoldering until the front line of the smoldering coal reaches the tipping paper then the outcome is scored as non extinguishment . Thus for example an SE value of 95 indicates that 95 of the smoking articles tested exhibited self extinguishment under free burn conditions while an SE value of 20 indicates that only 20 of the smoking articles tested exhibited self extinguishment under such free burn conditions.

The SE value may be referred to in terms of Self Extinction at 0 value Self Extinction at 45 value or Self Extinction at 90 value each of which refers to the value of SE at the specified tested angle. In addition the SE value may be referred to in terms of Self Extinction Average value which refers to an average of the three angular positions namely an average of i the Self Extinction at 0 value ii the Self Extinction at 45 value and iii the Self Extinction at 90 value . A reference to Self Extinction value or SE value does not distinguish between SE at 0 SE at 45 SE at 90 or SE average values and may refer to any one of them.

In execution of multi pass printing operations the operator will typically establish a press at the very beginning to print registration marks. Accordingly in understanding the description herein of first pass second pass third pass and so forth it should be understood that typically such passes will be preceded with a pass or print station for establishing registration marks on the paper which marks are used to maintain desired registration from pass to pass print station to print station .

Embodiments herein disclosed include banded papers and smoking articles constructed from such papers wherein the add on material comprises an aqueous starch solution or system that includes an anti wrinkling agent as disclosed herein such that the following are achievable 

In addition there are teachings herein of embodiments that include banded papers and smoking articles constructed from such papers wherein the add on material comprises an aqueous preferably starch solution that includes a chalk content sufficient to abate the tendency of the banded paper to cause self extinguishments and to enhance appearance of the product to a consumer. Further teachings include embodiments which include features and provision for maintaining capability to machine vision inspect the banded paper during printing operations despite the presence of the chalk content in the add on material.

Furthermore there are teachings herein of embodiments that include banded papers and smoking articles constructed from such papers wherein the bands are established according to patters which help abate the statistical occurrences of self extinguishments SE while maintaining desired IP performance.

In accordance with one aspect of this disclosure a wrapper paper for a smoking article may have a base web to which add on material is applied in a pattern using an aqueous starch solution that includes an anti wrinkling agent. The wrapper paper may include regions of add on material that include starch at about 1.5 gsm and 1 2 propylene glycol in the range of about 0.36 to about 0.90 gsm. As desired the add on material may also include chalk or calcium carbonate in the range of about 0.64 to about 1.2 gsm.

In accordance with another aspect of this disclosure a smoking article may include tobacco and a wrapper paper where the wrapper paper includes a pattern of add on material applied as an aqueous starch solution containing an anti wrinkling agent.

Another aspect of this disclosure involves a method of making or preparing a patterned wrapper paper by establishing a supply supplying of an aqueous starch solution incorporating an anti wrinkling agent to a printing station through which a base web is passed so that the pattern can be applied using the aqueous starch solution.

Further aspects of this disclosure involve without limitation patterns for the add on material characteristics of the constituents of the add on material. Further the disclosure relates to resulting features of the smoking article including without limitation ignition propensity and self extinction characteristics.

Referring to this disclosure concerns a smoking article such as a cigarette which preferably comprises a tobacco rod and a filter attached to the tobacco rod with tipping paper . Preferably the tobacco rod comprises a column of shredded tobacco cut filler and a wrapper disposed about the column of tobacco which wrapper is constructed in accordance with teachings which follow. The tobacco rod has a lightable or lit end and a tipped end which in the case of non filtered cigarettes is referenced as the mouth end of the cigarette . Cut filler tobacco is an industry standard designation. Further the tobacco rod typically has a generally circular cross section although other oval cross section and other shapes are within the scope of this disclosure. The wrapper is sealed along a longitudinal seam to form the tobacco rod .

The tobacco rod has a nominal length measured from the edge of the tipping paper to the free end of the tobacco rod along a longitudinal axis of smoking article. By way of example that nominal length may lie in the range of about 60 to about 100 mm.

The wrapper paper see typically includes a base web that may be made from flax wood pulp cellulose fiber or the like and may have a plurality of banded regions applied to one or both sides. Preferably the banded region is applied to the inside of the wrapper in the sense of how the wrapper surrounds a column of tobacco in the tobacco rod .

In the manufacture of base web suited for the construction of the various embodiments of print banded paper disclosed herein such manufacture usually will include the production of a roll of base web of several feet across usually about 3 feet across or in transverse dimension which is then slit into bobbins. Printing operations are preferably conducted on the rolls but could be conducted after slitting. Preferably the bobbins themselves will have a transverse dimension equivalent to the width needed to make tobacco rods or an integral number of such widths e.g. 1 2 or 4 of such widths . The bobbins are adapted for use with typical cigarette making machines. The wrapper preferably has a dimension in cross direction that takes into account the nominal circumference of the tobacco rod and an overlapping seam. As a result when the wrapper is slit the smoking article formed therefrom always has a longitudinal seam with an exact overlap.

For purposes of this disclosure longitudinal refers to the direction along the length of a tobacco rod e.g. along the axis in or along the length of a base web e.g. arrow in used in the preparation of wrapper that in turn may be used to fabricate a tobacco rod.

For purposes of this disclosure transverse refers to the direction circumferentially around a tobacco rod see or transversely of a base web e.g. arrow in used in the preparation of wrapper that in turn may be used to fabricate a tobacco rod.

For purposes of this disclosure a banded region or zone is an area see on an underlying base web to which an add on material has been applied. The banded region typically exhibits a two dimensional pattern or array on the base web . More specifically the pattern or array may comprise repeating units in the longitudinal direction of the base web repeating units in the transverse direction of the base web and or units which repeat in both the transverse and longitudinal directions of the base web . The regions of add on material are applied to the wrapper to obtain satisfactory or improved Ignition Propensity IP characteristics and may also obtain improved Self Extinguishment SE characteristics.

The regions of add on material are spaced along the base web such that at least one region of add on material is positioned between the first and second ends of the tobacco rod in each finished smoking article but more preferably at least two regions of add on material appear on the tobacco rod . The region of add on material preferably extends in the circumferential direction at one or more spaced locations along the axis extending around the tobacco rod of the smoking article . While the region of add on material is depicted in this disclosure as being substantially continuous in its circumferential direction other configurations for the add on material are within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

It is noted for sake of convention that in describing dimensions of various embodiments herein that band or zone width extends in a longitudinal direction see of the tobacco rod whereas a dimension in the circumferential direction will be expressed as circumferential or transverse or in cross direction. 

Where the banded region extends transversely of the base web or circumferentially around a tobacco rod the width of the banded region is measured in the longitudinal direction from the leading edge to the trailing edge and is preferably lies in the range of from about 5 to about 9 mm from the leading edge to the trailing edge more preferably from about 5.5 to about 7.5 mm and even more preferably from about 6 to about 7 mm. Further banded regions may have a 27 mm phase i.e. the spacing from the leading edge of one banded region to the leading edge of the next adjacent banded region . Preferably the banded regions of add on material reduce permeability of the wrapper to the range of from about 0 to about 12 CORESTA more preferably the range of from about 0 to about 10 CORESTA.

For purposes of this disclosure band spacing refers to the distance between the trailing edge of one banded region and the leading edge of an adjacent banded region on the base web from which a wrapper is fashioned.

As used herein the phrase leading edge refers to the edge see of a banded region that is closest to an approaching coal during smoldering of a smoking article whose wrapper contains the banded region while the phrase trailing edge refers to the edge of a banded region that is farthest from an approaching coal during smoldering of a smoking article whose wrapper contains the banded region . In crenellated embodiments the overall width W of the banded region is measured from the farthest forward extent of the leading edge to the farthest trailing extent of the trailing edge as is illustrated in with the width W .

As used herein the term crenellated refers to a pattern of multiple spaced geometrically shaped spaces removed from an otherwise substantially continuous solid banded region . A crenellated pattern or band can also be described as notched or appearing similar to a pulse wave. As used herein crenels refer to openings or valleys in a crenellated edge while merlons refer to raised portions or plateaus of a crenellated edge between crenels. The term undulating as used herein includes a crenellate edge as well as broader geometric shapes that exhibit a increasing and decreasing width characteristics.

For purposes of this disclosure layer refers to a quantity of add on material applied to a base web from which a wrapper is fabricated. A banded region may be fashioned from one or more layers see that may be superimposed on one another. Each banded region may be formed by applying one or more layers of an aqueous film forming composition to the base web of the wrapper to reduce the permeability of the paper in the corresponding banded region. Alternatively a cellulose material may also be used to form the banded regions.

Where a film forming composition is used that film forming composition preferably may include water and a high concentration of an occluding agent e.g. 14 to about 50 by weight. The film forming compound can include one or more occluding agents such as starch alginate cellulose or gum and may also include calcium carbonate as a filler. Further the film forming composition preferably includes an anti wrinkling agent. Where starch is the film forming compound a concentration of about 14 to about 26 may be particularly advantageous and a concentration of about 16 is presently most preferred.

An anti wrinkling agent is a material which inhibits transverse shrinkage of the base web see during printing or other conversion operations. A suitable anti wrinkling agent may be selected from the group consisting of 1 2 propylene glycol propylene glycol glycerin and starch plasticizing agents.

The film forming composition may be applied to the base web of the wrapper using conversion technologies such as gravure printing digital printing coating or spraying using a template or any other suitable technique. If desired the banded regions of add on material can be formed by printing multiple successive layers e.g. two or more successive layers registered or aligned with one another. Given the tolerances in gravure printing equipment for example adjacent layers are considered to be in registry where their respective overlying edges are within about 0.4 mm of one another when measured in either the longitudinal or transverse direction of the base web . Furthermore when layers are used to form the banded regions of add on material the material in adjacent layers may be the same or different. For example one layer may be starch while the next layer may be starch and calcium carbonate.

When discussing application rates for add on material applied using gravure printing techniques often use values with X as a suffix to refer to a volumetric application rate. The table below sets out the volumetric equivalents for X in terms of billion cubic microns or BCM 

In this specification the unit of measurement for basis weight gram s per square meter is abbreviated as gsm .

When the phrase weight ratio is used herein with respect to the starch component of a starch solution the weight ratio is the ratio of the weight of the additional material compared to the weight of starch used to prepare the starch solution. Moreover for purposes of this disclosure references to an X starch solution refer to an aqueous starch solution in which the starch weight is X of the solution weight e.g. weight of starch divided by the sum of starch weight and aqueous component weight .

The wrapper includes a base web which typically is permeable to air. Permeability of wrapper is typically identified in CORESTA units. A CORESTA unit measures paper permeability in terms of volumetric flow rate i.e. cm sec per unit area i.e. cm per unit pressure drop i.e. cm of water . The base web of conventional wrapper also has well known basis weights measured in grams per square meter abbreviated as gsm . The permeability and basis weight for the base web of typical smoking article papers commonly used in the industry are set out in the table below 

For purposes of this description the base web of a preferred wrapper has a permeability of at least about 20 CORESTA units. Most preferably the wrapper has a permeability greater than about 30 CORESTA such as common base webs having nominal permeabilities of about 33 and about 46 CORESTA with a basis weight of about 25 gsm. For some applications the base web may have a permeability of greater than about 60 CORESTA or greater than about 80 CORESTA or even higher permeability values.

Depictions of cross sections taken through a banded paper such as are believed to be useful schematic representations of a paper web having banded regions fashioned from one or more layered applications and of the application processes by which such banded papers are fabricated. However such schematic representations do not accurately depict the reality of the cross section base web structures or the reality of the cross section of base web structures to which one or more layers of add on material have been applied or the reality of the cross section of those layers of add on material in the final banded paper product.

More particularly is a mosaic of photomicrographs taken of a cross section of a banded wrapper of the type discussed above and elsewhere in this disclosure. The photomicrographs of cover an actual length of wrapper measuring about 2.1 mm in length to which add on material has been applied in two layers one layer containing starch and calcium carbonate and one layer having starch but no calcium carbonate. Match lines are applied to the different sheets of the mosaic so that the relationship between different portions of are readily apparent.

The individual photomicrographs of enlarge the actual paper sample 2500 times. Procedurally actual banded paper was cut into sections several millimeters long and embedded into Spurr epoxy. The embedded paper was then cut into 5 m micrometers thick cross sections using a Leica Ultracut UCT Ultramicrotome equipped with a glass knife. The sample was mounted on a carbon adhesive disk attached to an aluminum stub and sputter coated with 15 nm nanometers of Au Pd using a Cressington 208HR Sputter Coater operating in argon. The sample was imaged in adjacent overlapping portions using an FEI XL30 Environmental Scanning Electron Microscope ESEM operating at 15 kV in Hi Vac mode.

When the first portion or layer of add on material is applied see the add on material shows on the surface of the base web due principally to the presence of chalk or calcium carbonate in the material. In the sample which has been magnified in the second portion or layer of add on material is applied see on the surface of the base web and is positioned on the first layer . The second layer begins at about the location . While it appears that the second layer is not aligned so as to start at the same location as the first layer the tolerances involved in application techniques such as printing effectively do not allow the layers to be controlled within a tolerance of any less than about 0.3 mm. From the scale of magnification shown on the images of the mosaic the distance between the beginning of the first layer and the beginning of the second layer is about 0.12 mm a distance well within the minimum tolerance noted above.

Examining the first layer as it extends across several observations can be made about the first layer containing starch and calcium carbonate 

 v the actual thickness of the first layer can be greater than the actual thickness of the second layer even though the second layer is usually thicker than the first layer.

A similar examination of the second layer which does not include starch as that layer extends across permits several similar observations 

 iv the second layer tends to have a smooth surface but the base web paper has areas e.g. and FIG. F which are devoid of the add on material constituting the second layer .

Differences such as those discussed above demonstrate that the schematic descriptions of paper with one or more layers of add on material are at significant variance with the real world results of applying one or more layers of add on material to a base web . Accordingly while the schematic representations of add on layers fairly show the process application rates as might be used as a guide to etch application zones of a gravure print cylinder or the like those schematic representations do accurately represent the structure of the finished wrapper prepared by applying one or more layers of add on material to a base web.

Referring now to in a presently preferred embodiment of multi layered application of add on material to construct a solid band configuration from a multi application of add on material and having a band width in the range of approximately 6 to 7 mm. A first layer of the band may be applied at a rate of 4 and may comprise an aqueous solution containing approximately 16 starch 60 chalk or calcium carbonate and 60 1 2 propylene glycol. The second layer may be applied as a smaller rate of 3.5 and may comprise the same solution as the first layer. The third layer may be applied at an even lower rate of 3 and may comprise an aqueous solution containing 16 starch and 60 1 2 propylene glycol. In this formulation the 60 value for starch and propylene glycol means that the weight of those components is included at 60 of the weight of the starch in the aqueous solution. After the various layers have dried the resulting base web has regions of add on material in which starch is present at about 1.5 gsm 1 2 propylene glycol is present in the range of about 0.36 to about 0.90 gsm and calcium carbonate is present in the range of about 0.64 to about 1.2 gsm.

With inclusion of the propylene glycol in this embodiment as described one may achieve the associated advantages summarized above in the Summary and detailed further in the description which follows.

With inclusion of the chalk in this embodiment as described one may abate the tendency of the banded paper cigarettes to self extinguish enhance appearance of the product to a consumer and achieve these and other associated advantages summarized above in the Summary and detailed further in the description which follows.

Likewise with application of a third layer using a composition of little or no chalk content machine vision inspection of banded paper during printing operations is made possible and practicable despite the presence of the chalk content in the add on material of first and second layers and . This feature contribute to these and other associated advantages as summarized above in the Summary and detailed further in the description which follows.

It is also to be appreciated that with the solid band construction as described in reference to one achieves a wrapper which is capable of contributing a desirable IP performance including in many applications an IP performance of at or about zero 0 .

There are advantages with the concept of using aqueous starch solutions as add on material for making banded wrapper to control IP characteristics of smoking articles manufactured using such banded wrapper. However the application of aqueous starch solutions to a base web creates difficulties For example aqueous starch solutions have a tendency to penetrate the irregular rough and porous surface of the base web and a tendency to cause transverse shrinking of the base web in the vicinity of the banded regions. As to the last point it has been observed that when applying an aqueous starch solution to a base web about 36 inch in transverse dimension the web may shrink about from 0.50 inch to 0.75 inch or more upon drying. This degree of shrinking would frustrate maintaining proper registration through printing and other conversion Operations.

Since shrinkage is localized to the banded regions the transverse width of the base web in the space between adjacent banded regions is greater than the transverse width of the base web in the banded regions. That disparity in transverse width gives rise to transverse waviness in the base web in those spaces between banded regions.

Such waviness in the wrapper adversely affects both the subsequent handling of the wrapper and the manufacture of smoking articles from the wrapper. For example when wrapper with waviness is wound on a spool or slit and wound on bobbins the winding process flattens the waviness causing creases in the wrapper. When the creased wrapper is used to manufacture smoking articles those creases in the wrapper are carried into the smoking articles resulting in visually unacceptable smoking articles.

Surprisingly applicants have discovered that the inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent preferably such a propylene glycol in an aqueous starch solution used to make banded wrapper in a manner consistent with the teaching herein can reduce transverse shrinkage to operationally manageable levels alleviate pronounced wrinkling and essentially eliminate creasing problems that first presented themselves. Inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent has been found to have additional benefits too. For example when an anti wrinkling agent is incorporated into the aqueous starch solution the anti wrinkling agent functions as a plasticizer so that the starch is more elastic during the drying process and in the finished paper. Cracking and flaking at banded regions was alleviated. In addition the presence of the anti wrinkling agent appears to cause the starch solution to reside more on the surface of the base web with less penetration into that material and thus enhance film formation. Shrinkage of the wrapper in the vicinity of banded regions formed from an aqueous starch solution that includes an anti wrinkling agent has been observed to be in the range of about 0.0625 to 0.125 inch for a 36 inch wide base web a range which does not result in creasing nor excessive waviness. Further inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent in the aqueous starch solution has been found to make possible the application of add on material to be applied to the base web in a single application printing pass or the like provided that sufficient drying capability is established with such practices. Moreover the inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent in the aqueous starch solution to be applied in patterns exhibiting more intricacy than solid band regions because print registration can be more precisely maintained from print station to print station. In addition the pot life of the aqueous starch solution is materially improved by the inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent as disclosed herein.

The foregoing advantages will be better understood by those skilled in the art from the following teachings. Referring now to the regions of add on material determine and regulate the IP and SE characteristics of the smoking article. Those regions of add on material are applied to a base web see of the wrapper and then formed into a tobacco rod in conventional cigarette making equipment. Nominal permeability of the base web may be in the range of about 25 to about 100 CORESTA. Currently the preferred nominal permeability of the base web lies in the range of about 33 to about 65 CORESTA with the most preferred nominal permeabilities being about 33 and about 60. The base web has a longitudinal direction extending along the length of the wrapper and a transverse direction extending transversely across of the wrapper so as to be generally perpendicular or transverse to the longitudinal direction .

Those regions of add on material may be applied to the base web preferably by a printing technique. While one or more printing technique selected from the group consisting of direct printing offset printing inkjet printing gravure printing and the like may be used to apply the region preferably a gravure printing process will be used. Gravure printing provides ample control over deposition rates deposition patterns and the like and is suitable for high speed printing on the base web . For purposes of this disclosure high speed printing refers to printing processes where the base web advances through the printing process at a linear speed greater than about 300 feet min. For cigarette manufacturing purposes base web printing speeds greater than 450 feet min. are preferred and speeds greater than 500 feet minute or more are even more preferred. In this regard the rates of deposition for add on material as well as the quality of the pattern of deposited add on material can vary considerably when wrapper prepared by high speed printing processes is compared with wrapper prepared by low speed printing processes. Higher speed printing operations can achieve both desirable IP values performance and desired SE values performance .

Remarkably it has been found that a base web may be converted printed to include bands in accordance with the embodiment described with reference to at 1000 feet per minute with acceptable paper appearance i.e. without quality defects and without elevated or unacceptable statistical occurrences of creases or wrinkles.

One object of this description is to provide wrappers see produced at commercial scale high speed which when formed into a tobacco rod exhibit IP values no greater than 25 and SE values no greater than 50 . Accordingly deposit rates and characteristics of the resulting printed regions are important features of high speed printing here. While those IP and SE values are considered to be adequate at this time even more preferred is an IP value for the resulting smoking article no greater than about 15 and the most preferred IP value for the resulting smoking article is no greater than about 10 . Lower SE values are also desired. In this connection a more preferred SE value is less than about 25 while the most preferred SE value is less than about 10 .

The materials used for the regions of add on material can be important in the IP and SE performance of a smoking article manufactured using the wrapper discussed herein. In one embodiment the regions of add on material may be printed with a starch solution that includes an anti wrinkling agent. While an aqueous starch solution is presently preferred as the aqueous component is readily dried use of a non aqueous starch solution is also within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. In another embodiment the regions of add on material may be printed with a solution comprising a mixture of calcium carbonate or chalk particles starch and an anti wrinkling agent. As with the starch and anti wrinkling agent solution the solution comprising a mixture of calcium carbonate or chalk particles starch and an anti wrinkling agent preferably is applied as an aqueous solution but a non aqueous solution also falls within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

This disclosure contemplates that various anti wrinkling agents are suitable to attain the desired characteristics described herein. In particular the anti wrinkling agent is selected from the group consisting of glycerin propylene glycol and 1 2 propylene glycol. Glycerin is a preferred member of the anti wrinkling agent group. Presently however 1 2 propylene glycol is the most preferred member of the anti wrinkling agent group.

Generally speaking this disclosure contemplates that either i an anti wrinkling agent or i a combination of anti wrinkling agent and calcium carbonate will be added to a nominal aqueous starch solution to obtain the add on solution to be used for printing. For the nominal aqueous starch solutions used in this description the starch may comprise from about 10 to about 28 by weight of the nominal solution. Preferably the starch may comprise from about 14 to about 26 by weight of the nominal solution. Most preferably starch may comprise about 16 by weight of the nominal solution.

An anti wrinkling agent is preferably added to the nominal starch solution with the weight of the anti wrinkling agent being in the range of about 10 to about 120 of the weight of the starch in the nominal starch solution. When the anti wrinkling agent is 1 2 propylene glycol the weight of the anti wrinkling agent is more preferably in the range of about 40 to about 120 of the weight of the starch in the nominal starch solution even more preferably in the range of about 40 to about 80 and most preferably in the range of about 55 to about 65 . Where the anti wrinkling agent is glycerin the weight of the anti wrinkling agent is more preferably in the range of about 10 to about 45 of the weight of the starch in the nominal starch solution even more preferably in the range of about 20 to about 40 and most preferably about 20 to about 30 . Where glycerin is used as the anti wrinkling agent at about 40 to about 45 the glycerin appears to adversely affect the drying quality of the add on solution.

The following illustrative non limiting examples are intended to provide further explanation. The results provided in Tables I and II compare the initial viscosity and time stability of a printing solution without an anti wrinkling agent additive and to the initial viscosity and time stability of a printing solution with an anti wrinkling agent additive. The observations recorded in Table I for 1 2 propylene glycol and Table II for glycerin show that a printing solution containing an anti wrinkling agent such as 1 2 propylene glycol or glycerin is less viscous initially and more stable in that it has a lower viscosity for a much longer period of time.

When the add on material is applied with a printing technique viscosity of the applied material is important. Where the viscosity of the applied material increases over time the add on material has a finite shelf life or pot life after which the material loses its usefulness. As Table I demonstrates with the addition of an anti wrinkling agent to the applied material formulation the initial viscosity of add on material can be reduced by about 20 . Moreover the shelf life or pot life of the add on material increases by a factor of at least two or more compared to material not having an anti wrinkling agent.

The results provided in Tables III and IV indicate that addition of an anti wrinkling agent to the printing solution reduces free burn SE without unacceptably affecting IP performance i.e. while maintaining an acceptable IP levels . For purposes of the information presented in Table III batches of 40 cigarettes were tested to obtain the IP performance while batches of 20 cigarettes were tested at each angular position to obtain the SE performance.

From Table III certain conclusions can be drawn. For example the IP stayed well under the 25 target value for 7 mm bands. In addition the IP stayed well under the 25 target value when CaCOweight was less than 80 of the starch weight. Further the average SE values was less than or equal to 70 when CaCOweight was greater than 40 of the starch weight and SE at 0 was less than or equal to 25 when CaCOweight was greater than 40 of the starch weight.

For purposes of the information presented in Table IV smaller groups of cigarettes were tested namely groups of five. The cigarettes tested for the results in Table IV were prepared with two hand brushed bands using the add on material solution as indicated in Table IV.

Inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent in the add on material also enhances characteristics of the resulting banded wrapper. More particularly an anti wrinkling agent has been found to increase flexibility of add on material when dried on the wrapper i.e. it acts as a plasticizer . As a result bands of add on material are less prone to separate from the base web during handling and use than bands on wrapper where an anti wrinkling agent is not used in the formulation. Furthermore as noted above incorporation of an anti wrinkling agent in the add on material gives rise to improved SE performance in a smoking article fabricated from wrapper having bands of add on material including an anti wrinkling agent but without degradation of IP performance.

While the operation of the anti wrinkling agent in the starch solution is not fully understood it appears that the anti wrinkling agent also functions as a plasticizer in the starch solution. A starch solution without an anti wrinkling agent capable of also functioning as a plasticizer tends to infiltrate the top surface of the paper structure. Moreover without the agent a starch solution tends shrink or contract when it dries. That shrinkage and or contraction causes the underlying web to also shrink or contract i.e. in the area underlying the banded region. By way of example observations have shown that the width of a 36 inch wide paper web may shrink by as much as about 0.5 to about 0.75 inches in the banded region in other words by about 1 to about 2 . Such shrinkage may create difficulties such as in maintaining proper registration among multiple print stations when using multipass printing among others.

Since the underlying web between banded regions does not experience the shrinkage the region between the banded regions exhibits waviness where the waves extend in the longitudinal direction of the underlying web and the undulations of the waves occur in the cross web or transverse direction of the underlying web. After the underlying web is slit longitudinally into portions sized to manufacture cigarettes each of those longitudinal portions of the paper web is wound tightly on a corresponding bobbin. Accordingly the undulations described above sometimes result in creases in the unbanded regions where the paper folds on itself to adjust to the width reduction caused by shrinkage in the banded regions. Such creases in the wrapper are generally unacceptable for tobacco rod production. The effect of that shrinkage can be easily seen in B C. Those figures are optical microscope images of the wrinkled region between print banded regions where a single application of film forming material is applied at 5.5 . The film forming material used contained 22 starch and 40 chalk or calcium carbonate.

Thus the shrinkage of the banded regions appears to be a cause of wrinkling in the unbanded or unprinted area of the wrapper. Again the mechanisms are not fully understood but the addition of an anti wrinkling agent to the starch solution appears to cause the printed layer or banded region to be more flexible. That flexibility may result from the printed starch layer being more elastic. That flexibility may also result from the printed layer having reduced infiltration into the paper structure such that the printed layer lies more on the surface of the paper web. Regardless of whether those mechanisms a combination of those mechanisms or some other mechanism is active observations indicate that when the wrapper flexes the enhanced elasticity of the layer or banded region reduces the likelihood that the layer or banded region will separate from the wrapper. Moreover the elasticity of the layer or banded region appears to allow the layer or banded region to dimensionally conform to the underlying paper as the applied solution dries hence shrinkage in the banded region is reduced and simultaneously wrinkling and or puckering between the banded regions is also reduced. Accordingly incorporating the anti wrinkling agent in the starch solution counteracts the wrinkling described above.

The effect of adding an anti wrinkling agent to a film forming material may be easily seen in E F G H I which are photographs taken through an optical microscope of the region between print banded regions under the same conditions as . In glycerin was used as an anti wrinkling agent. The film forming material was applied at 5.5 and contained 22 starch 40 chalk and 20 glycerin. In 1 2 propylene glycol was used as an anti wrinkling agent. In these figures the film forming material was applied at 5 and container 22 starch 40 chalk and 100 propylene glycol. demonstrates the surprising impact on print banded paper obtained by adding an anti wrinkling agent to the film forming material.

A further advantage of the anti wrinkling agent herein disclosed concerns the film forming attributes of the solution. More particularly inclusion of the anti wrinkling agent in the add on material seems to enhance the film forming characteristic of the add on material with respect to the surface of the base web to which the add on material is applied. That improved film forming characteristic is believed to enhance the IP performance of banded wrappers constructed from the add on material. Moreover the film forming characteristic enhances the desired occlusive effect of the layer sufficiently such that it may be possible to reduce the number of multi pass applications that may have been needed with solutions not having the anti wrinkling agent. With the anti wrinkling agent single pass operation may be possible with addition of adequate drying capability.

Some further advantage has been observed when 1 2 propylene glycol is used as the anti wrinkling agent. Specifically 1 2 propylene glycol can be effectively used where the ratio of 1 2 propylene glycol weight to starch weight in the solution is about 100 . By contrast glycerin can be effectively used when the ratio of glycerin weight to starch weight in the solution is less than 40 because at that ratio the drying time for the starch and starch plasticizer solution becomes unacceptable. That difference in drying time may result from the difference in boiling point for glycerin 290 C. and the boiling point for 1 2 propylene glycol 187.3 C. a difference of about 100 C. For 1 2 propylene glycol the boiling point is closer to the boiling point of an aqueous solvent than is the boiling point of glycerin.

With the addition of an anti wrinkling agent to the starch solution permeability of the banded region is improved i.e. the permeability is more uniform and is lower than permeability for a band that does not use plasticizer. This phenomenon is significant because it permits the required quantity of starch solution to be applied or printed in a single printing step. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in the past multiple printing steps were typically needed to effect the necessary permeability reduction in the banded regions. Of course it may still be desirable for other reasons to continue use of multilayer printing operations.

Calcium carbonate or chalk is preferably added to the nominal starch solution in addition to the anti wrinkling agent the weight of chalk may lie in the range of 0 to about 100 of the weight of starch in the nominal solution preferably in the range of about 40 to about 100 and most preferably in the range of about 40 to about 80 with a preferred target level of approximately 60 . Chalk may be added to the nominal starch solution to adjust the reflectance of the resulting add on material so as to be comparable to the reflectance of the uncoated base web material. With such reflectance banded regions constructed from the add on material are less visible to the casual observer.

The CaCO to starch ratio may also be a significant factor in determining IP and SE performance of a smoking article fashioned from the wrapper of this disclosure when prepared by high speed printing. The CaCO to starch ratio is determined as the ratio by weight of calcium carbonate to starch for the region of add on material. More specifically a CaCO to starch ratio of less than about 0.8 is preferred to obtain desired IP performance together with improved SE at 0 performance less than about 25 . CaCOis included in the make up of the embodiment described with reference to to enhance its SE performance among the other reasons set forth herein.

From the foregoing description and the attached drawings those skilled in the art will understand that a method of manufacturing a banded wrapper for smoking articles has been described. In that process banded regions see of add on material are established as spaced locations on one surface of the base web . Spacing of those banded regions may be selected so as to be substantially greater than the width of those banded regions in the longitudinal direction of the base web . The width of the banded regions may be selected to lie in the range of about 5 to about 10 mm millimeters and the spacing between those banded regions that spacing being measured as the distance from the trailing edge of one banded region to the leading edge of the next adjacent banded region may be in the range of about 12 to about 40 mm.

Banded regions of this disclosure preferably comprise an aqueous solution containing starch chalk or CaCO and an anti wrinkling agent. While many types of starch are contemplated tapioca starch is presently preferred for the starch component of the layers . A suitable commercially available starch is FLO MAX8 available from National Starch Chemical Co.

Unexpectedly it has been found that certain characteristics of the starch material give rise to predetermined patterns that yield very low Ignition Propensity values when the patterned base paper is formed into smoking articles. Even more surprising has been the realization that within the standard specifications for some well known starch materials batch to batch variations in material properties can affect the Ignition Propensity of the resulting smoking articles. By way of example the specifications of an oxidized tapioca starch commercially offered by National Starch Chemical Co. as Flo Max 8 indicate a pH in a 1 solution lying in the range of 4.5 to 6.5 with particles having molecular weights in excess of 10 000. Surprisingly when a predetermined pattern was applied to a base web with a batch of Flo Max 8 having a pH in the range of about 6 to about 6.5 IP has been found to be much improved when compared to other batches of Flo Max 8 for which the pH was less than about 6 but still within the manufacturer s specifications.

Various balances or trade offs need to be made in selection of starch parameters for use in applying films to wrapper. For example while high molecular weight starch may give rise to effective permeability reduction such high molecular weight starches must be used in low concentrations resulting in a solution having a very high water content. But high water content films are much more difficult to effectively dry on porous wrapper. Moreover it has been found that surface tension of the starch solution affects the retention of small bubbles of air low surface tension allows smaller bubbles to remain in the solution whereas high surface tension causes bubbles to agglomerate and separate out of the solution giving a more uniform and consistent material for application to the wrapper.

Although not fully understood the preferred pH range of the oxidized starch is believed to reflect a lower degree or less complete oxidation of the starch polymer chains giving more longer polymer chains than the more acidic i.e. lower pH starches.

Furthermore longer polymer chains yield a solution having a higher viscosity. Higher viscosity for the starch solution translates to better control when applied to a wrapper in a printing process.

Based on these understandings it has been found that marked improvement in the IP of patterned wrapper results for starch solutions having particular and improved characteristics. Those characteristics for an aqueous solution including oxidized starch include a pH in the range of about 6 to about 6.5 a surface tension of at least about 65 dynes centimeter a room temperature viscosity of no greater than about 50 centipoises and a particle size distribution in the range of about 4 to about 40 microns for dry particles with about 90 also being in the range of about 10 to about 100 microns when wet. Furthermore the particles preferably have a molecular weight such that the solution can have starch concentrations in the range of about 14 to about 24 . Preferably the starch comprises an oxidized tapioca starch.

The aqueous starch solutions used for application to the base web or wrapper are typically prepared by making a starch water mixture by first mixing the desired weight of dry starch powder with the desired weight of room temperature water i.e. at about 15 C. to about 25 C. to obtain a starch water mixture having the reselected concentration. For example to prepare a starch water solution with a reselected concentration of 20 20 parts by weight of starch are mixed with 80 parts by weight of water. The starch water solution is then heated to an elevated sub boiling temperature in the range of about 90 C. to about 95 C. i.e. below the boiling temperature. The starch water solution is held at the elevated temperature for about 20 to about 30 minutes for thermal soaking. Then the starch water solution is cooled to room temperature. That cooling step can occur by passively such as by naturally occurring heat transfer processes or the cooling step can be active or forced such as by immersion in a cooling bath or by use of a conventional mechanical cooling system. Throughout the mixing step the heating step the thermal soaking step and the cooling step the starch water mixture is stirred. The stirring can be continuous or substantially continuous. If additional constituents such as calcium carbonate are to be incorporated into the starch water solution those constituents should be added after the starch water solution returns to room temperature following the thermal soaking step.

Aqueous starch solutions having the characteristics specified above and prepared in the manner described above can be applied to a base web using any of a multitude of printing techniques including by way of example and without limitation the group consisting of gravure printing offset printing inkjet printing spraying and die printing. Other printing processes may also be suitable and are intended to lie within the teachings of this specification. Preferably however gravure printing may be used to apply the starch solution to a base web to obtain a patterned wrapper.

Surprisingly it has been found that the CaCO starch ratio is a significant factor in determining IP and SE performance of a smoking article fashioned from the wrapper of this disclosure prepared by high speed printing. The CaCO starch ratio is determined as the ratio by weight of calcium carbonate to starch for the region of add on material i.e. for both layers. More specifically a CaCO starch ratio of at least about 35 is preferred to obtain IP and SE 0 performance less than about 25 . Even more preferred is a CaCO starch ratio of at least about 45 to obtain IP and SE 0 performance less than about 20 .

If desired the layer printed on the base web see may be the starch layer and the layer may be the layer comprising a mixture of starch and calcium carbonate. A presently preferred arrangement however places the mixture of starch and calcium carbonate in the first layer and applies only starch in the other layer .

It has been observed that i the optical reflectance of the base web and ii the optical reflectance of the mixture of starch and calcium carbonate are quite similar. In fact those two reflectances are sufficiently similar that optical inspection equipment can have operational difficulty. On the other hand i the optical reflectance of the base web and ii the optical reflectance of a layer comprising starch have been observed to be substantially different.

The different reflectance characteristics of the layers are advantageously used to enhance the optical inspection characteristics of the wrapper of this disclosure. With the starch layer deposited on top of the starch calcium carbonate layer optical inspection of the wrapper is materially enhanced. More particularly as the base web advances from a supply bobbin through the gravure printing apparatus to the take up bobbin the web may also pass through an inspection station. In the inspection station a light source is focused on the moving web . A light beam emanating from the light source reflects from the surface of the moving base web such that the reflected light is collected by a sensor. As each region of add on material moves through the inspection station the region interrupts the light beam and modulates the quantity of light reflected to the sensor. Because the reflectance of the starch layer is different from the reflectance of the base web the sensor can be constructed to sense the presence or absence of a region . When coupled with an input related to the speed of the base web through the inspection station an even more sophisticated sensor can determine the width of the region in the longitudinal direction of the base web as well as longitudinal spacing between adjacent regions for quality control and manufacturing consistency. In connection with inspection of banded regions please also see commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 966 218 and 6 198 537 which are incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

Surprisingly as calcium carbonate levels are increased in the banded regions exposed to the optical inspection or machine vision systems those systems have been observed to become less reliable. That reduced reliability appears to result from increased reflectivity of the surface of the banded regions . Such increased reflectivity overwhelms or blinds the inspection systems a phenomenon perhaps resulting because the reflectance of banded regions with high calcium carbonate levels is comparable to and may be substantially equivalent to the reflectance of the base web itself. That reflectance parity seems to result when the calcium carbonate level in the surface region of the banded regions is greater than about 80 of the starch level in the surface region of the banded regions .

That reflectance parity problem can be alleviated by establishing an structure for the banded regions in which the surface region has a reflectance which is sufficiently different from the reflectance of the base web that the inspection systems consistently identify the reflectance variation to identify parameters related to the banded regions including by way of example presence of the reflectance variation beginning or end of banded region absence of the reflectance variation a missing banded region or a misplaced banded region and longitudinal extent of a banded region or spacing between banded regions e.g. how long a particular reflectance continues for a sensed velocity or speed of the base web through the inspection station . One way of establishing a desired structure for the banded regions is to provide the increased calcium carbonate layer in a position more remote from the inspection system than the layer having essentially starch. Stated differently by superposing the starch layer on the calcium carbonate containing layer efficacy of optical inspection systems will not be impeded but will continue to be effective.

Such an arrangement of layers in the banded region provides another surprising and beneficial attribute for the wrapper. When the first layer of the banded region applied to the base web contains both calcium carbonate and starch the presence of the banded region is less evident when observed or examined from the side of the base web opposite to the side on which the banded region is applied i.e. the side opposite from the side where machine vision operates. In fact as the calcium carbonate levels approach high levels which are the subject of this disclosure presence or existence of the banded region becomes less visible to a consumer and may actually become substantially invisible to an ordinary consumer.

Such visual masking is important because consumers of smoking articles are accustomed to products in which the wrapper exhibits a uniform homogeneous appearance. The preferred arrangement for the layers see yields a further significant advantage to a smoking article manufactured using the wrapper of this disclosure.

Similarly many types of calcium carbonate particles are contemplated as falling within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. Presently however calcium carbonate available from Solvay Chemicals Inc. as SOCAL 31 is a suitable commercially available calcium carbonate. SOCAL 31 is an ultrafine precipitated form of calcium carbonate having an average particle size of about 70 nm nanometers . Larger particles of calcium carbonate have been observed to not function as well in this application when compared to the ultrafine precipitated form of calcium carbonate due at least in part to the tendency of larger particles to precipitate from solution more quickly and due at least in part to the need for greater quantities to attain the beneficial characteristics discussed herein.

The materials used for the regions of add on material can be important in the IP and SE performance of a smoking article manufactured using the wrapper discussed herein. In one embodiment the regions of add on material may be printed with a starch solution that includes an anti wrinkling agent. While an aqueous starch solution is presently preferred as the aqueous component is readily dried use of a non aqueous starch solution is also within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. In another embodiment the regions of add on material may be printed with a solution comprising a mixture of calcium carbonate or chalk particles starch and an anti wrinkling agent. As with the starch and anti wrinkling agent solution the solution comprising a mixture of calcium carbonate or chalk particles starch and an anti wrinkling agent preferably is applied as an aqueous solution but a non aqueous solution also falls within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

Generally speaking this disclosure contemplates that either i an anti wrinkling agent or i a combination of anti wrinkling agent and calcium carbonate will be added to a nominal aqueous starch solution to obtain the add on solution to be used for printing.

As discussed in more detail above incorporation of an anti wrinkling agent in the starch solution permits the aqueous starch solution to be applied in a single printing step or layer to the underlying paper web. While an anti wrinkling agent may also be used in a multilayer construction for a banded region applied in multiple printing steps or passes the benefits of the anti wrinkling agent flow from its use in the first layer applied to the base web.

From the discussion above it will now be apparent to those skilled in the art that many different patterns for the banded regions of wrapper fall within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. For example a pattern comprising a plurality of solid transversely extending bands has been described see . Solid bands may be either transversely extending longitudinally extending see or helical see . The description as being solid meaning for purposes of this disclosure that the regions of add on material are applied in a single step.

The foregoing discussion also makes clear that the regions of add on material may if desired be applied in two or more successive steps or applications. Gravure printing techniques as well as other printing techniques are well suited to such successive steps or multiple applications.

As noted above it is desirable to achieve IP performance that meets and exceeds governmental requirements. Such is achievable with a solid band configuration such as that described with reference to . Moreover as also previously noted that desired IP performance often adversely impacts the SE performance of the smoking article. Stated differently while the IP performance may meet or exceed the governmental requirements that IP performance is typically associated with a smoking article that will self extinguish when hand held by a smoker an SE of 100 . Since smokers ordinarily prefer not to need to relight a smoking article improvement of SE performance while maintaining IP performance constitutes a highly desirable feature for improved wrappers. Applicants have discovered arrangements of the banded regions on wrapper that provide such improved SE performance while maintaining the IP performance. For example the inclusion of chalk content in the embodiment described with reference to contributes enhancement of SE performance amongst other attributes.

In addition to or in lieu of applying chalk to improve SE performance certain band configurations and patterns disclosed herein are useful in constructing smoking articles having both improved SE performance and desired IP performance. For example a slit band configuration such as shown in and others is capable of better sustaining smoldering during free burns yet when placed adjacent a substrate does not sustain smoldering.

Referring to Table V wrapper A comprises a slit band arrangement having three regions of about 2 mm each for a total width of 6 mm for the printed banded region with add on rates in the various regions ranging from about 3.5 to about 5.5 . An add on rate of 5.5 results in about 8 g mto about 9 g mof add on material on a dry weight basis where the wrapper has a nominal basis weight of about 26.5 g m. Lower add on rates would be expected to provide proportionally adjusted values for the weight of the add on material measured on a dry weight basis. The width of the banded regions are typically measured in the longitudinal direction and have a 27 mm phase i.e. the spacing from the leading edge of a banded region to the leading edge of the next or subsequent banded region .

Tables VI IX show that the multizone banded region see may be fashioned in a single pass printing operation with the application rates indicated in those tables. In each of wrappers A through D the add on material preferably included an aqueous solution containing starch chalk or calcium carbonate and 1 2 propylene glycol. A presently preferred mixture for that aqueous solution includes starch chalk and 1 2 propylene glycol in a weight ratio of about 100 for starch to about 40 to about 80 for chalk to about 100 for 1 2 propylene glycol in weight percent. The starch alone may be in the range of about 20 to about 24 in the aqueous solution.

Some changes in the relative proportions of constituents of the add on material may change when the aqueous solution is applied to a base web and dried. For example observations indicate that when 1 2 propylene glycol is used as the anti wrinkling agent about 50 to about 60 of the propylene glycol added to the solution remains in the add on material when it has dried on the paper web. Some weight loss may also occur in other anti wrinkling agents during the drying process. However such weight loss has not been observed with respect to the starch and calcium carbonate constituents of the add on material during the drying process.

The region of add on material may be substantially continuous transverse of the paper web as shown see or may have one or more longitudinally extending separations so as to define a C shaped region when formed into a wrapper for a tobacco rod see or may have several arcuately shaped portions see generally symmetrically positioned around the tobacco rod when viewed in cross section transverse to the longitudinal axis of the tobacco rod .

In addition the region of add on material on the wrapper may be divided into two or more substantially ring shaped portions see that are spaced from one another along the axis by a distance w that typically does not exceed the width of the rings when measured in a direction generally parallel to the axis of the tobacco rod . Such a spacing feature provides a slit in the band structure.

It is also within the contemplation of this disclosure that the region on the wrapper may comprise a plurality of patches see disposed circumferentially around the tobacco rod with patches of an adjacent region being circumferentially displaced from patches of other adjacent regions . In addition the patches may be arranged according to a predetermined pattern such as taught in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 924 666 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

The regions of add on material are preferably applied in a single layer see . It should be noted that the representation of the base web cross section in is schematic. As discussed above the actual cross section of a base web is a slice through the myriad of fibers which form the base web. In the case of cigarette wrapper that thickness may be on the order of about 30 microns i.e. 30 10meters or 30 m . Actual thickness of the add on material 2 m and the add on material tends to infiltrate and conform to the surface presented by the fibers of the base web. As a result material build up in the regions of add on material can be schematically shown as boxes as in and but actually are nearly imperceptible to the unaided eye. To that end it will be appreciated that if multiple layers are used to form the regions of add on material the resulting structure is nearly impossible to resolve into the individual layers. That resolution into individual or separate layers is further complicated when aqueous solutions are applied because subsequent layers tend to re wet the previous layer and allow components such as chalk to settle through the material of the prior layer.

The application rate of the material in the preferred single layer see may be in the range of about 4 to about 6 . For these purposes the X has been described above. Where the base web has a nominal CORESTA value of about 33 a presently preferred application rate of about 5 is believed to be appropriate. Where the base web has a nominal CORESTA value of about 60 a presently preferred application rate of about 5.5 is believed to be appropriate.

Although the regions of add on material are preferably applied in a single pass application or layer this description also contemplates application of the add on material in multiple applications steps or layers see . In this embodiment after a first layer is applied to the surface of the base web at a first gravure printing station and dried a second layer see of add on material may be applied to the wrapper for example at a second printing station. If desired a third or subsequent layer can be applied at further printing stations. The second layer may be arranged so as to be superposed on and substantially co extensive with the first layer . Alternatively the second layer may cover only one or more portions of the first layer . The relative application rate of the layers need not be the same and preferably is different. For example one layer may be at least about 1.5 times to about 3 times the thickness of the other layer.

For example the smoking article see may include one or more banded regions that are axially spaced from one another along the axis of the smoking article . Each banded region may include add on material applied such that at least one longitudinally extending gap exists between end portions of the banded region . The embodiment of show a single gap in each of the banded regions however two or more gaps may be provided around the circumference of the smoking article . Where more than one gap is provided the gaps are preferably generally parallel to one another and preferably are also substantially equally spaced from one another around the circumference of the smoking article . An embodiment of the smoking article having a pair of substantially diametrically opposed areas of add on material may be seen in . As shown the circumferential extent of the areas of add on material may be substantially the same as the circumferential extent of the spaces or gaps between those areas of add on material .

With the foregoing arrangement when the smoking article exists in free burn condition see the regions of add on material obstruct airflow to the burning coal of the tobacco rod by virtue of their reduced permeability. On the other hand with the smoking article held in a substantially horizontal position the bottom gap of the wrapper freely permits air to enter the side of the tobacco rod to support combustion of the coal. A vastly different situation occurs when the smoking article is placed on a substrate see . Under these conditions the substrate blocks the flow of air upwardly to the bottom portion or bottom gap of the tobacco rod . The regions of add on material and the substrate cooperate to define much smaller areas through which air can be drawn through the base web of the wrapper. More specifically the vertical area between the bottom of the region and the substrate and the vertical area between the bottom of the region and the substrate present a substantial reduction in the area through which air can pass to reach the smoldering coal of the tobacco rod . As a result of deprivation of oxygen in the air the smoldering coal of the smoking article self extinguishes when the burn line reaches opposed regions of add on material positioned as depicted in . The condition of substantially reduced area for air to support burning of the coal also exists for rotational positions of the tobacco rod between that position illustrated in and other positions of the smoking article when rotated about its longitudinal axis.

However when the smoking article is placed on the substrate such that one of the add on regions contacts the substrate the add on regions still may sufficiently restrict the area through which air can pass to and through the base web and there is a lesser degree of material cooperation between the substrate and the add on regions to effect a reduction in that area in comparison to what occurs at the snuffer region . For purposes of this description a snuffer region is an area on the tobacco rod which is operable to cause extinguishment of the burning coal when placed on a substrate .

In the foregoing example the reduction in IP value is also associated with a reduction in SE value and improved free burn quality of a smoking article having a wrapper with regions of add on material such as those of . It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the SE improvement of occurs with the smoking article in a horizontal position i.e. 0 . Similar SE improvements are also observed at other SE evaluation positions of 45 and 90 . Where the smoking article happens to be placed on a substrate at one of three specific orientations the orientations being spaced off set 45 apart from each other around the axis of the smoking article the self extinguishing characteristics and desirable IP are also achieved. Naturally the discussion proceeded in this manner for the sake of brevity. It will be readily understood that a pattern according to this description can extinguish the smoking article regardless of which side portion rests against a substrate and without a need for applying film forming compound to the paper to such an extent that a desirable free burn quality in the smoking article is lost or such that carbon monoxide levels in the mainstream smoke become elevated. This may be understood by recognizing that opposing regions of film forming compound need not appear at locations exactly 90 from the side portion in contact with the substrate . Those regions may be centered at a location that is closer to or farther from the side portion in contact with the substrate for example between about 60 and 120 from the side portion in contact with the substrate .

Additionally for a particular chosen pattern the ability to extinguish the smoking article may depend more on providing minimum lengthwise extent of add on material e.g. a film forming compound rather than a particular weight per area of film forming compound at longitudinal locations. The length of a rectangular region for example may be no less than about 5.5 mm for a particular design base web and film forming compound used. The amount of film forming compound used may be increased to improve IP performance usually without losing a free burn quality and SE performance and if desired a burn accelerator may be applied to the paper to support even higher add on levels.

Previously it was thought that a permeability ratio of 3 1 between the base web and regions of add on material was insufficient to extinguish the smoking article because there is an insufficient reduction in the permeability of the paper at the longitudinal position of the snuffer region. However that permeability ratio over a portion of the circumference of the smoking article may be sufficient to extinguish the smoking article when there is an underlying substrate and when the add on material is located at sides of the smoking article not in contact with the substrate .

Another embodiment of a smoking article which makes use of the interaction between longitudinal spaces between opposed regions of add on material and a substrate is shown in . Here a series of longitudinally spaced snuffer regions are spaced along the axis of the smoking article . Each pair of areas of add on material in a snuffer region may be referred to as patches for quick reference.

With reference to the paper wrapper further comprises pairs of add on material zones at spaced locations along the tobacco rod in such as the opposing pair of zones .

Each pair of rectangular zones for example and the latter not being visible in define a circumferential region for example the region . The width of the banded region is measured from a leading edge of the region it being closest to an approaching coal to the trailing edge it being most remote from an approaching coal . Preferably the width of the regions e.g. lies in the range of about 5.5 to about 12 mm more preferably about 7 to about 10 mm and most preferably about 8 to about 9 mm. Moreover at each circumferential region such as region the zones and are circumferentially spaced apart such that they are disposed in mutually opposing relation along opposite sides of the wrapper when formed on a tobacco rod . Preferably each zone extends circumferentially i.e. in cross measure relative to the paper web in the range of about 5 to about 9 mm in cross measure more preferably about 6 to about 7 mm in cross measure.

It is further noted that the area of base web between adjacent regions and the areas between opposing zones within each zone such as between the opposing zones of the zone are preferably essentially free of add on material comprising the zones e.g. zones .

The longitudinal distance between adjacent regions such as between zones is referenced as band spacing which is preferably about 4 to about 12 mm and more preferably about 6 to about 8 mm.

Preferably the respective opposing zones of each region are offset from those of a preceding row or region to a degree in accordance with teachings which follow and a sufficient number of regions are established along a given tobacco rod by selection of band region width and width of band region spacing such that when the smoking article is placed up on a substrate at least one location exists along the tobacco rod where the respective pair of regions are oriented substantially alongside the tobacco rod such as the opposing pair of zones in . It is at or about this location on the tobacco rod where self extinguishment is most likely to occur. The location along the tobacco rod where this orientation most closely occurs is hereinafter referenced as the oriented snuffer region. 

Because the smoking article might be laid upon a substrate differently from the position shown in and or because its pattern of zones may differ it is to be realized that the oriented snuffer zone may occur at different longitudinal positions along the tobacco rod for different rotational positions of the tobacco rod . The pattern of zones and the band spacing may be selected such that more than one oriented snuffer zone may occur along the tobacco rod .

Preferably each zone and includes sufficient add on material to reduce the permeability of the wrapper at each zone to about 0 to about 12 CORESTA more preferably about 7 CORESTA or less.

For purposes of this description a pattern of add on material is applied to the wrapper to obtain improved IP characteristics and also to obtain improved SE characteristics.

As presently understood the staggered zones of add on material according to this description permit a smoking article see to be designed with an advantageous combination of desired low IP values and desired low SE values. The patterns of low permeability regions of add on material provide areas of film forming compound along the length of the tobacco rod that can cooperate with a substrate to extinguish the lit smoking article when it is placed on that substrate yet these areas of add on material such as a film forming compound cause the smoking article to self extinguish at statistically fewer occurrences when the smoking article is held by a smoker in a free burn condition. Thus the smoking article can exhibit a reduced ignition proclivity while retaining a desirable free burn quality or low SE value by applying a pattern of film forming compound to the base web according to this description.

To achieve desirable IP and SE characteristics of the smoking article a pattern see is applied to the base web of the wrapper preferably while the base web is in an unfolded condition such as shown in or when the base web comprises a roll of cigarette paper that has yet to be slit into bobbins. An object of this description is to provide wrappers which when formed into a tobacco rod exhibit IP values no greater than 25 and SE values no greater than 50. Even more preferred is an IP value for the resulting smoking article no greater than about 15 and the most preferred IP value for the resulting smoking article is no greater than about 10. Lower SE values are also desired. In this connection a more preferred SE value is less than about 25 while the most preferred SE value is less than about 10.

Referring specifically to the transverse dimensions of the wrapper are selected based on the diameter of the finished smoking article about 7 to about 10 mm and allowing for overlapping material at a longitudinal seam of about 1 to about 2 mm. For example allowing for 1 mm overlapping seams the wrapper paper cross web dimension may be about 27 mm for a smoking article having a circumference of about 25.6 mm.

Preferably the pattern is applied to the base web such that a plurality of circumferentially extending regions defined by broken lines in are disposed at spaced locations along the tobacco rod see arrow in . The add on material can be applied to one or to both sides of the base web. Preferably three to six and most preferably four to six or more of the regions occur in the nominal length of the tobacco rod . Each of the circumferential regions has a longitudinal pitch along the tobacco rod i.e. length measured along the tobacco rod from the beginning of one region to the beginning of the adjacent region which is less than the nominal length of the tobacco rod . By selecting the longitudinal pitch length at about 25 of the nominal length four regions will be provided on each tobacco rod .

Within each circumferential region e.g. at least two zones e.g. of add on material are provided. Note that the zones of add on material in all of the figures are identified with stippling to aid identification of them however in a smoking article or wrapper for such a smoking article these zones of add on material may or may not be visually identifiable. Each of these zones is preferably spaced circumferentially such that the zones will be opposed to one another in the finished tobacco rod . Moreover for each triplet of zones e.g. the zones of the second region preferably are circumferentially offset from the zones of the first region. Furthermore the zones of the third region preferably are circumferentially offset from the zones of the second region and even further offset circumferentially form the zones of the first region

As depicted in the add on zones of each region in this embodiment are laterally offset in a circumferential direction from the add on zones of an adjacent region by a distance that is a function of the transverse dimension of the add on zones. Each zone has a width measured along the tobacco rod and a transverse cross measure dimension in the circumferential sense of direction of the tobacco rod . For this embodiment the zone width is less than the longitudinal pitch of the associated region. As seen in the longitudinal pitch length may be greater than the corresponding zone width of the corresponding region. The add on zones of successive regions along the tobacco rod are preferably offset from the add on zones of the adjacent regions thereby defining a pattern of regions which cover portions of the base web along lines inclined relative to the edge of the base web. Furthermore the pattern of add on zones may repeat itself at least partially along the length of the base web.

In the illustrated embodiment each zone is placed on the wrapper so that the zone is centered upon one of three paths and which paths are represented by corresponding broken lines and . Thus for example path passes through the corresponding geometric features of six zones . Each zone is spaced from the other zones but the zones could alternatively contact one another. The paths and are parallel to each other and oriented at an acute angle relative to the side edge of the wrapper . It is to be realized that zones are preferably the same as zones and result from progression through the pattern shown in where as zones disappear along one edge zones appear along the opposite edge. Each pair of cross web aligned zones e.g. zones or zones may cover up to about 33 of the total surface area of the corresponding region . For rectangular zones each zone is preferably in the range of about 8 to about 10 mm in the longitudinal direction or width and about 5 to about 7 mm in the circumferential cross measure direction. Longitudinal spacing between the zones preferably lies in the range of 4 to about 12 mm and more preferably in the range of about 6 to about 8 mm. The circumferential spacing of the zones of add on material is preferably in the range of about 3 to about 20 mm more preferably in the range of about 5 to about 8 mm and most preferably in the range of about 5.5 to about 7.0 mm.

When wrapper is formed about tobacco to make a tobacco rod zones of add on material at any longitudinal location are preferably spaced about 180 from each other. Moreover the ratio of the area occupied by zones of add on material to the total area the total area being the sum of i the corresponding region and ii the annular area between adjacent regions on one side that ratio here being defined as the zone area ratio is substantially less than one. Preferably that zone area ratio lies in the range of less than about 20 to less than about 50 and more preferably in the range of less than about 20 to less than about 35 . More particularly in some embodiments the zone area ratio for zone occupied area to total area may be less than 30 and even less that 25 . Generally speaking it is desirable to keep the zone area coverage ratio low because high values i.e. closer to 1 are believed to increase carbon monoxide concentration in mainstream smoke where low permeability i.e. low CORESTA wrapper is used for the tobacco rod.

When the wrapper is formed to make the tobacco rod the paths describe a first helical path zones and in combine to form a helical path and a second helical path comprising helically aligned zones both of which extend lengthwise around axis and over the length of the tobacco rod as illustrated in . The helical paths and as seen from have a helix angle and do not intersect one another. Preferably both helical paths may follow one of a counterclockwise and clockwise rotation about the tobacco rod . As illustrated both paths follow a clockwise path starting at the filter end of the tobacco rod when viewed from the lit end and looking towards the filter end.

The zones of the pattern may be formed by applying one or more layers of an aqueous film forming composition to the base web of the wrapper to reduce the permeability of the paper in those zones. Incorporation of an anti wrinkling agent into the film forming composition permits the pattern to be applied in two passes if desired or a single layer if additional drying capacity is established. Alternatively a cellulosic material may also be used to form the zones. Where a film forming composition is used that film forming composition preferably may include water and a high concentration of an occluding agent e.g. 20 to about 50 by weight. The film forming compound can include one or more occluding agents such as starch alginate cellulose or gum and may also include calcium carbonate as a filler. Where starch is the film forming compound a concentration of about 24 may be advantageous. The film forming composition may be applied to the base web of the wrapper using gravure printing digital printing coating or spraying using a template or any other suitable technique. For example the film forming compounds and methods for applying film forming compounds described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 500 918 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference thereto may be chosen for applying a pattern to the base web of the wrapper. If desired the zones of add on material can be formed by printing multiple successive layers e.g. two or more successive layers registered or aligned with one another. Furthermore when layers are used to form the zones of add on material the material in layers may be the same of different. For example one layer may be starch while the next layer may be starch and calcium carbonate or vice versa .

The presently preferred embodiment for the pattern of zones of add on material is illustrated in . Like the embodiment of the zones of add on material in are quadrilateral specifically generally rectangular. Preferably at least two zones e.g. of add on material are applied in each region so as to be circumferentially spaced in the finished smoking article. The circumferential dimension of each zone is preferably selected to be less than about 50 of the cross measure of the base web when unwrapped and most preferably about 25 of the cross measure of that base web or of the circumference of the tobacco rod . The circumferential dimension of each zone when added to the circumferential spacing of between the zones preferably is about 50 of the circumferential cross measure of the base web .

The longitudinal length of the zones plus the longitudinal spacing between the zones and zones i.e. the longitudinal pitch length is preferably selected so that three or four regions will occur in the nominal length of the tobacco rod of the smoking article and such that add on zones of adjacent regions are spaced from one another longitudinally. Preferably the longitudinal expanse or width of the zones e.g. i.e. the zone width or region width as previously defined lies in the range of about 8 to about 10 mm. The circumferential offset x between i the zones of the region and ii the zones of the region preferably lies in the range of about 10 to about 35 of the total unwrapped cross measure of the base web . More preferably the circumferential offset x lies in the range of about 12 to about 35 of the total unwrapped cross measure of the base web . Most preferably the circumferential offset x is about half the circumferential dimension or cross measure of the add on zone . The zones of add on material in other regions are likewise further offset circumferentially by the same offset x with respect to each other. It will be noted that for example in region one of the zones of add on material gets split between the two edge portions of the base web when the base web is in an unwrapped condition.

The pattern applied in regions preferably repeats along the length of the base web . Clearly if the circumferential offset x is less than 12.5 of the cross directional width of the base web more than four regions will define a complete cycle or phase length for the pattern . Conversely if the circumferential offset x is greater than 12.5 less than four regions will define a complete cycle length for the pattern as in the case of the pattern .

A further embodiment of the pattern see uses quadrilateral zones of add on material namely substantially parallelogram shaped zones. While the zones are arranged so as to be in general helical alignment with one another when the wrapper is formed into a tobacco rod the configuration of the parallelogram shapes may be selected as desired. For example the mirror images of the shapes mirrored about the longitudinal direction could be used even though the general helical impression might be lost. Likewise the skewness of the parallelogram zones may be changed as may be desired. Generally however the circumferential dimensions circumferential spacing or offset longitudinal dimensions and longitudinal spacing or offset of the zones and the regions in this embodiment may be selected as described in other embodiments.

Still another embodiment of the pattern see uses quadrilateral zones of add on material namely substantially trapezoidal zones. Here again the generally trapezoidal zones may be arranged so as to be in general helical alignment with one another when the wrapper is combined into a tobacco rod . In addition the actual shape of the trapezoidal zones may be selected as desired. For example the skewness of the trapezoidal zones and the proportions of the trapezoidal zones may be changed as may be desired. Generally however the circumferential dimensions circumferential spacing or offset longitudinal dimensions and longitudinal spacing or offset of the zones and the regions in this embodiment may be selected as described in other embodiments. It is preferred that the leading edge be the longer of the two parallel edges of the zones .

Yet another embodiment of the pattern see uses generally triangular zones of add on material. The generally triangular zones of region may be constructed and arranged so as to touch the corresponding generally triangular zones of the next adjacent region . If the IP and SE characteristics desired require it the generally triangular zones of the first region may be longitudinally spaced from the triangular zones of the adjacent region . Depending on the characteristics required for the smoking article design it is also contemplated that the generally triangular regions may be oriented so that the burning coal of a smoldering smoking article encounters the triangular apex and gradually increasing cross directional dimension of the generally triangular zones i.e. from right to left in or such that the burning coal of a smoldering smoking article encounters the base of the triangular zones and an abrupt increase in the lower permeability zones i.e. from left to right in . Circumferential spacing of the triangular zones and the size of those triangular zones may be determined in accordance with the preferred ranges set out elsewhere in this description. Moreover the triangular zones may be isosceles triangles as depicted or equilateral triangles or right triangles or any other desired triangular shape that may be desired. Generally however the circumferential dimensions circumferential spacing or offset longitudinal dimensions and longitudinal spacing or offset of the zones and the regions in this embodiment may be selected as described in other embodiments. Preferably the triangular forms of the zones are oriented so that a leading edge closest to an approaching coal is established.

The operation of these embodiments for the wrapper pattern is best understood by consideration of . These figures illustrate three different positions of the smoking article resting on the substrate and are illustrative of the cooperation which occurs between the zones of low permeability add on material and the substrate . One position see illustrates a side view of the smoking article according to this description. Rotation of the smoking article through a 45 angle about its longitudinal axis clockwise from the left end of results in an elevation similar to that shown in . Similarly further rotation of the smoking article through another 45 angle also clockwise from the left end of results in an elevation to that illustrated in . In each of it can be seen that at least one pair of zones of add on material are positioned on the sides of the smoking article at a location along the length of the tobacco rod e.g. zones of zones of and zones of . At those locations where the zones of add on material are positioned substantially on the sides of the smoking article the zones are substantially upright or generally perpendicular to the surface of the substrate . That orientation of the zones is best illustrated in where the opposed zones are located on corresponding opposed sides of the smoking article when viewed in cross section substantially symmetrically positioned relative to a diameter of the tobacco rod which diameter is substantially parallel to the surface of the substrate .

Orientation of the zones of add on material at other longitudinal locations along the smoking article are shown in . In the zones of add on material are positioned such that one zone touches the substrate . The zones of the smoking article in would also be positioned as in when viewed from the right end of . In one zone contacts the substrate but the other opposed zone is located at the top of the smoking article . From consideration of it will be appreciated that regardless of the angular position of a smoking article having the pattern of zones of add on material described at least one pair of opposed zones of add on material are positioned as shown in or or a rotated position between those positions. This position has been referred to above as the oriented snuffer region.

Accordingly it is seen that the spirally rotated position of the opposed zones of add on material creates a situation where regardless of which side portion of the wrapper is placed against the substrate there will always be at least one longitudinal location having film forming compound at side portions not in contact with the substrate yet having a sufficient add on amount and geometry that the zones can cooperate with the substrate to self extinguish the smoking article when the burn line reaches that longitudinal location. This fact results in improved IP performance of the smoking article and permits a smoking article to be designed with an IP value no greater than 25 . Nevertheless in the absence of a substrate the smoking article does not self extinguish yet maintains a free burn such as when the smoking article is held by a smoker. This fact results in improved SE performance of the smoking article and permits a smoking article to be designed with an SE value no greater than 50 that SE value may be the SE average value. SE values at 0 may be much lower that the SE average value and may be less than 25 .

In the embodiments described above the smoking article has a generally circular cross section. Therefore it is possible for any side portion of the smoking article to rest against the substrate . However a pattern as taught herein can be such that the burn characteristics described above IP values no greater than 25 and SE values no greater than 50 in relation to can be realized regardless of which side portion of the smoking article happens to rest against the substrate . Preferably the pattern is selected so that when the base web is wrapped around a tobacco rod zones of film forming compound appear at opposing sides not in contact with the substrate at one or more preferably at least two longitudinal locations along the tobacco rod .

If desired the zones of add on material may also comprise other geometric shapes other than quadrilaterals including for example ovals other polygons or the like. Furthermore the helix angle described above may be increased while keeping the dimensions of zones the same as in the illustrated embodiments. That change can place the zones in an overlapping pattern or at least place zones in close proximity to one another . Alternatively a stepped helical pattern may be formed by increasing the cross directional dimension of the zones or patches while the helix angle is the same as in and or a zone of equal size to that shown in may be placed between each patch and along paths so that there are 12 instead of 6 patches along a path .

Other patterns for the regions of add on material are also of course within the scope of this disclosure. Moreover the inclusion of an anti wrinkling agent in the aqueous solutions used to form the banded regions allows intricate patterns to be effected.

For example in another embodiment the banded region can comprise first second and third zones of add on material which may be applied by any of the methods disclosed herein wherein the second zone includes perforations which preferably are filled with an occluding material which melts or is evaporated when the burning coal approaches the banded region to thereby provide the second zone with increased permeability.

Thus a wrapper of a smoking article is disclosed comprising a base web and at least one transverse banded region with first second and third zones. The first and third zones comprise add on material which reduces permeability of the wrapper. The first and third zones each have a width such that if either of said first or third zone were applied separately to wrappers of smoking articles the smoking articles would exhibit statistically significant occurrences of total burn through and statistically few or no occurrences of self extinguishment under free burn conditions e.g. after testing a batch of 20 to 50 cigarettes . The sum of the widths of the first and third zones is such that if the zones were applied to wrappers of smoking articles as a single continuous band without a slit or other discontinuity the smoking articles would exhibit statistically few or no occurrences of total burn through and statistically significant occurrences of self extinguishment under free burn conditions. The first and third zones are separated by the second zone. The wrapper has greater permeability along the second zone than along the first and third zones. The second zone has a width less than either width of the first and third zones which can have equal or unequal widths so that lit smoking articles comprising the first second and third zones exhibit statistically reduced occurrences of self extinguishment under free burn conditions as compared to smoking articles comprising wrappers whereon the first and third zones are applied as a single continuous band while maintaining statistically few or no occurrences of total burn through. Preferably the first and third zones are of uniform add on material across the first and third zones. Optionally the second zone may have a width essentially equal to the first and third zones.

Total weight of add on material for the banded region preferably lies in the range of 0.5 to 15 grams per square meter gsm . Conventional cigarette paper is permeable with the permeability commonly designated in CORESTA which measures paper permeability in terms of volumetric flow rate i.e. cm sec per unit area i.e. cm per unit pressure drop i.e. cm of water . Permeability of the cigarette paper normally exceeds 20 CORESTA and preferably the cigarette paper has a permeability of about 33 to about 60 CORESTA and a basis weight of about 22 30 gsm. However permeability through the banded regions and the underlying cigarette paper preferably lies in the range of 0 to 15 CORESTA. The reduction in permeability preferably restricts air flow needed to support combustion of the cigarette coal in the vicinity of the banded region.

The first and third zones preferably have a greater basis weight in grams per square meter than the intermediate second zone for example the basis weight in grams per square meter of the first and third zones may be at least twice the basis weight in grams per square meter of the second zone. The second zone may comprise a gap. As used herein the term gap refers to a discrete area of a banded region between the first and third zones lacking any permeability reducing add on material i.e. containing no layers of permeability reducing add on material . In order to aid combustion in the second zone the wrapper may comprise iron oxide at the location of the second zone. The second zone preferably has a greater permeability than the first and third zones.

The at least one transverse banded region preferably comprises a first printed layer contacting the base web and a second printed layer preferably having an equal or greater basis weight in grams per square meter than the first printed layer on the first printed layer. However the second and or subsequent layers may be less in basis weight than the first layer. For example the basis weight in grams per square meter of the second printed layer may be at least twice the basis weight in grams per square meter of the first printed layer. In an embodiment the second zone may comprise a single printed layer and the first and third zones may each comprise at least two printed layers more preferably three or more layers . Alternatively the first and third zones may each comprise at least three or four printed layers and the second zone may comprise only one or two or no printed layers.

Non banded areas of the base web preferably do not comprise permeability reducing add on material. As described below with reference to the transverse banded region may comprise greater than three zones. For example the transverse banded region may comprise for example five zones with the second and fourth zones separating the first third and fifth zones and the wrapper having greater permeability along the second and fourth zones than along the first third and fifth zones.

Also provided is a wrapper of a smoking article comprising a base web and a transverse banded region of add on material. The transverse banded region is designed to cause extinguishment of smoking articles comprising the transverse banded region when left upon a substrate. The wrapper further comprises a more permeable intermediate zone along the transverse banded region such that the occurrences of self extinguishments of smoking articles comprising the wrapper is statistically reduced over those without the intermediate zone.

In a further embodiment a wrapper of a smoking article comprises a base web and at least one transverse banded region comprising first second and third zones on the base web. The at least one transverse banded region can be free of fillers and optionally at least one of the zones is formed at least in part from an add on material which includes a filler. The add on material is preferably uniform across the first and third zones. The first and third zones are outward of the second zone and the overall wrapper structure at the second zone has a greater permeability compared to the overall wrapper structure at the first and third zones.

Additionally provided is a wrapper of a smoking article comprising a base web and at least one transverse banded region comprising first second and third zones on the base web. The first and third zones are outward of the second zone the second zone has a greater permeability compared to the first and third zones and the second zone and the first and third zones comprise add on material.

Moreover provided is a method of making a banded wrapper of a smoking article comprising supplying a base web and forming at least one transverse banded region comprising first second and third zones on the base web. The first and third zones are outward of the second zone the second zone has a greater permeability compared to the first and third zones and at least the first and third zones are formed from an add on material free of fillers. Optionally at least one of the zones is formed at least in part from an add on material which includes a filler. The add on material is preferably uniform across the first and third zones.

Furthermore provided is a method of making a banded wrapper of a smoking article comprising supplying a base web and forming at least one transverse banded region comprising first second and third zones on the base web. The first and third zones are outward of the second zone the second zone has a greater permeability compared to the first and third zones and the second zone and the first and third zones are formed from an add on material. Optionally at least one of the zones is formed at least in part from an add on material which includes a filler. The add on material is preferably uniform across the first and third zones.

Referring to slit banded paper facilitates use of wrappers of lower permeability for a given level of CO than prior designs of banded paper. For example it was found that a tobacco rod comprising paper having a permeability of 33 CORESTA and a CO FTC delivery of 11 mg would produce 15 mg of CO FTC if previous versions of bands were applied without further change. In order to counteract his increase the permeability of the wrapper would have to be raised to about 46 CORESTA. Such changes create a multitude of consequence in cigarette design such as for example impacting puff count possibly lessening machineability of the paper and the like. In contrast the slit banded paper having a permeability of 33 CORESTA provided 12 mg CO FTC . Thus the slit banded technology described herein facilitates application of bands with a lesser impact on CO levels FTC .

Referring to further embodiments may include banded regions wherein the zones extend longitudinally instead of circumferentially. More specifically corresponds to banded region configuration of with the zones extending longitudinally instead of circumferentially and corresponds to banded region configuration of with the zones extending longitudinally instead of circumferentially.

In a preferred embodiment the first layer of each banded region is preferably formed using an aqueous occlusive composition which extends completely across the banded region. The successive layer or layers of each banded region may be formed by using the same aqueous film forming composition or different aqueous compositions. For example multiple layers may all comprise layers containing exclusively starch or multiple layers may comprise one or more layers containing exclusively starch and one or more layers containing calcium carbonate in any order . During gravure printing the occlusive composition is preferably heated to a temperature where its viscosity lies within the range of viscosities suitable for gravure printing. When the heated occlusive composition is applied the occlusive composition is cooled or quenched and may be gelatinized. Thus a portion of the free water in the occlusive composition becomes bound and unavailable to soak or migrate into underlying fibers of the base web. That binding of free water inhibits formation of waviness cockling and or wrinkling in the base web. Successive layers of the banded regions preferably have increased thickness relative to the first layer. The banded regions provide a reduction in permeability to the underlying base web which preferably restricts air flow needed to support combustion of the cigarette coal in the vicinity of the banded region.

The occlusive composition used in the occlusive composition may be selected from the group consisting of starch alginate carrageenan guar gum pectin and mixtures thereof. Preferably the occlusive composition comprises starch more preferably oxidized starch such as for example tapioca starch more specifically oxidized tapioca starch. In these embodiments the occlusive composition preferably does not contain fillers such as for example calcium carbonate which would increase the burn rate through the banded region. In a preferred embodiment the occlusive composition used for printing comprises water and about 20 to about 50 by weight of the occlusive composition. At higher concentrations of the occlusive composition in the composition the composition may experience gelatinization when its temperature is rapidly reduced. Thus the binding of free water into the printed banded region may occur.

At room temperature about 23 C. the high solids content occlusive composition has a viscosity exceeding about 200 centipoises cP and is unsuitable for gravure printing however at a temperature in the range of about 40 to about 90 C. the viscosity of the occlusive composition is decreased sufficiently for use as a gravure printing composition. For gravure printing the upper limit of suitable viscosity is about 200 cP. Most preferably the occlusive composition has a viscosity of about 100 cP at a temperature in the range of 40 C. to 90 C. so that the composition can be quenched on contact with the paper after gravure printing at that temperature. The viscosity of the composition at room temperature is also important. The high viscosity at room temperature is needed so that the occlusive composition gels at room temperature.

Preferably the banded regions are applied to the wrapper using a successive gravure printing process. Gravure printing operations are capable of precise registry of successive printing operations. Accordingly gravure printing can be used to effectively print not only the first layer of the banded regions but also the optional successive layers.

The following examples are intended to be non limiting and merely illustrative. Cigarettes with five different wrappers i.e. wrappers with five different banded region configurations were tested for ignition propensity IP and self extinguishment SE at 0 horizontal . The base web of each of the wrappers had a permeability of 33 CORESTA and basis weight of 25 gsm.

Referring to Table X wrapper A was a control comprising a continuous solid 6 mm printed banded region having an add on rate of 5.5 . As used herein an add on rate of 5.5 results in 8 9 gsm of add on material on a dry weight basis and a basis weight of 26.5 gsm for 6 mm banded regions with a 27 mm phase i.e. the spacing from the leading edge of a banded region to the leading edge of the next banded region applied to a base web with a basis weight of 25 gsm.

As compared to control wrapper A wrappers B E exhibited the desired reduction in SE while maintaining IP i.e. without significantly increasing IP . In particular wrapper B exhibited an improvement over control wrapper A as evidenced by the decrease in SE average from 95 to 60 . Further comparing wrappers B and D it can be seen that by increasing the width of the second zone from 1 mm to 2 mm the SE average decreased from 60 to 25 while approximately maintaining the IP value . Thus the width of the second zone is preferably greater than 1 mm preferably about 1.5 mm or about 2 mm. While good results were also shown by wrapper c which exhibited an SE average of 45 the best results were shown by wrapper E which exhibited an SE average of 20 .

It should be noted that wrapper E having a banded region comprising first second third fourth and fifth zones and which showed the best results had 1 mm second and fourth zones of greater permeability. In contrast wrapper B having a banded region comprising just first second and third zones with a 1 mm second zone of a greater permeability did not perform as well. Thus wrappers having banded regions comprising just first second and third zones preferably have wider zones of greater permeability i.e. about 1.5 mm or about 2 mm than the zones of greater permeability of wrappers having banded regions comprising first second third fourth and fifth zones.

Moreover a method of making a banded wrapper of a smoking article may comprise supplying a base web and forming at least one transverse banded region comprising first second and third zones on the base web. The first and third zones are outward of the second zone the second zone has a greater permeability compared to the first and third zones and at least the first and third zones are formed from an add on material free of fillers. Optionally at least one of the zones is formed at least in part from an add on material which includes a filler. The add on material is preferably uniform across the first and third zones.

Furthermore a method of making a banded wrapper of a smoking article may comprise supplying a base web and forming at least one transverse banded region comprising first second and third zones on the base web. The first and third zones are outward of the second zone the second zone has a greater permeability compared to the first and third zones and the second zone and the first and third zones are formed from an add on material. Optionally at least one of the zones is formed at least in part from an add on material which includes a filler. The add on material is preferably uniform across the first and third zones.

In a preferred embodiment the first layer of each banded region is preferably formed using an aqueous occlusive composition which extends completely across the banded region. The successive layer or layers of each banded region may be formed by using the same aqueous film forming composition or different aqueous compositions. For example multiple layers may all comprise layers containing exclusively starch or multiple layers may comprise one or more layers containing exclusively starch and one or more layers containing calcium carbonate in any order . During gravure printing the occlusive composition is preferably heated to a temperature where its viscosity lies within the range of viscosities suitable for gravure printing. When the heated occlusive composition is applied the occlusive composition is cooled or quenched and may be gelatinized. Thus a portion of the free water in the occlusive composition becomes bound and unavailable to soak or migrate into underlying fibers of the base web. That binding of free water inhibits formation of waviness cockling and or wrinkling in the base web. Successive layers of the banded regions preferably have increased thickness relative to the first layer. The banded regions provide a reduction in permeability to the underlying base web which preferably restricts air flow needed to support combustion of the cigarette coal in the vicinity of the banded region.

In embodiments which include a layer of add on material that includes calcium carbonate that layer is preferably applied as an upper layer for a banded region intended for the outside of the wrapper or adjacent the wrapper for a banded region or the inside of the wrapper so as to maximize its favorable effect on appearance of the smoking article.

The occlusive composition of the banded regions may be selected from the group consisting of starch alginate carrageenan guar gum pectin and mixtures thereof. Preferably the occlusive composition comprises starch more preferably oxidized starch such as for example tapioca starch more specifically oxidized tapioca starch. In embodiments the occlusive composition preferably does not contain fillers such as for example calcium carbonate which would increase the burn rate through the banded region. In a preferred embodiment the occlusive composition used for printing comprises water and about 20 to about 50 by weight of the occlusive composition. At higher concentrations of the occlusive composition in the composition the composition may experience gelatinization when its temperature is rapidly reduced. Thus the binding of free water into the printed banded region may occur.

At room temperature about 23 C. the high solids content occlusive composition has a viscosity exceeding about 200 centipoises cP and is unsuitable for gravure printing however at a temperature in the range of about 40 C. to about 90 C. the viscosity of the occlusive composition is decreased sufficiently for use as a gravure printing composition. For gravure printing the upper limit of suitable viscosity is about 200 cP. Most preferably the occlusive composition has a viscosity of about 100 cP at a temperature in the range of 40 C. to 90 C. so that the composition can be quenched on contact with the paper after gravure printing at that temperature. Such an occlusive composition may comprise 24 by weight starch. Alternatively the occlusive composition may comprise 20 by weight starch which has a viscosity of about 10 40 cP at room temperature and low viscosity at higher temperatures. The viscosity of the composition at room temperature is also important. The high viscosity at room temperature is needed so that the occlusive composition gels at room temperature.

Another embodiment contemplates the use of circumferential slits in both the circumferential and longitudinal directions see . The resulting pattern of add on material resembles spaced apart regions having a plurality of patches therein.

In other embodiments the longitudinally banded regions are helically wound about the length of the smoking article see These helical arrangements are well suited for generally circular cigarettes. When the smoking article experiences free burn conditions the opposed helically wound longitudinally banded regions only obstruct airflow to the burning coal of the tobacco rod by virtue of their reduced permeability. However the unobstructed portions of the wrapper permit the smoking article to have consistent and favorable conditions to support combustion in the advancing coal of the smoking article. On the other hand a vastly different situation occurs when the smoking article is placed on a substrate. The substrate blocks flow of air upwardly to the bottom portion of the tobacco rod. The opposed helically wound longitudinally banded regions and the substrate cooperate to define much smaller areas through which air can be delivered to the base web as previously discussed.

Preferably the helical angle of the helical longitudinally banded regions is selected such that at least one location along the tobacco rod exhibits the configuration shown in regardless of the rotational position of the smoking article about its longitudinal axis. More preferably the helical angle is selected to lie between about arctangent 2 l c and about arctangent l c such that at least two locations along the tobacco rod exhibit the arrangement regardless of rotational position of the smoking article about its longitudinal axis. If desired the helical angle can be selected with even smaller values than arctangent l c so that even more occurrences of the condition occur throughout the length of the tobacco rod.

Such embodiments preferably assure that independently of the angular position of the smoking article upon the substrate the smoking article will have at least one location and preferably two three four or more locations along its length where the helical longitudinally banded regions are positioned such that in cross section the banded regions are substantially symmetrically disposed at the ends of a major dimension of the cross section positioned parallel to an underlying substrate the cross sectional view being similar to . Preferably the longitudinally banded regions cover 25 or less of the surface area of the smoking article and or are less than or equal to about 6 mm wide in the circumferential direction. Preferably each longitudinally banded region includes sufficient add on material to reduce the permeability of the wrapper at each longitudinally banded region to about 0.0 to about 12 CORESTA more preferably about 7 CORESTA or less.

When the angle approaches 0 the banded regions become longitudinal stripes see positioned generally parallel to the axis of the smoking article .

A wrapper for a smoking article may also comprises a base web see having a nominal permeability and a plurality of banded regions with sufficient add on material such that the wrapper has a permeability at the banded region less than the nominal permeability of the base web. A leading edge of each banded region may be crenellated. Optionally a trailing edge of the banded region may also be crenellated.

While various arrangements of the crenellated regions may occur to those skilled in the art several such arrangements are illustrated in the appended figures. For example see the banded region may have a leading edge in which the crenels are disposed between merlons . In this embodiment the merlons have a dimension in the transverse direction of the base web which is substantially the same as the dimension in the transverse direction of the crenels . As depicted the merlons and associated crenels may be generally rectangular. If desired however the merlons and crenels may have other geometric shapes including without limitation quadrilaterals trapezoids triangles hexagons and other regular or irregular geometric configurations. The distance between the top of a merlon and the bottom of an adjacent crenel may lie in the range of about 2 mm to about 5 mm and preferably may be about 3 mm. At the trailing edge of the banded region a similarly crenellated arrangement may also be provided.

Turning to the proportions of the merlons and the crenels of the leading edge are different from the arrangement of . In the merlons may have a cross web dimension of about half the cross web dimension of the associated crenel . Nevertheless an integral number of pairs of merlons and crenels corresponds to the nominal circumference of smoking article as discussed above. The height of the merlons or depth of the crenels preferably lies in the same range of values as discussed in connection with . At the trailing edge of the embodiment of the cross web dimensions of the trailing edge merlons and the trailing edge crenels are different from the cross web dimensions of the leading edge merlons and the leading edge crenels.

Turning to the leading edge of the banded region may have substantially the same characteristics discussed above in connection with . However the trailing edge may have merlons having cross web dimensions substantially greater than the cross web dimensions of the opposed crenels of the leading edge while the cross web dimensions of the trailing edge crenels are substantially less than the cross web dimensions of the corresponding opposed merlons of the leading edge.

While the foregoing embodiments depict crenellated edges have a traditional notched shape the crenellated band of has a different shape for the crenellated edges . More particularly the crenellated edge has merlons that are substantially triangular separated by substantially triangular crenels . If desired the trailing edge of the band may be straight. Preferably however the trailing edge of the band may also have the triangular crenellation configuration described above in connection with the leading edge .

Similar to the crenellated band of the crenellated band of has a crenellated edge having merlons that are substantially triangular separated by and defining substantially triangular crenels. While the trailing edge of the band may be straight in the trailing edge of the band also has the same triangular crenellation configuration as the leading edge . As further illustrated in the band may be divided into two band portions that are spaced from one another by a slit . The slit typically does not exceed the widths of the individual band portions as measured in a direction generally parallel to the axis of a smoking article having the bands. The spacing feature provides a slit or discontinuity in the band structure where there is a lesser amount of or no add on material.

In an embodiment shown in the band has a different shape for the crenellated edges . In particular the leading edge that is crenated i.e. cut into rounded scallops . The scallops i.e. circle segments or angular projections can have variable or uniform widths and or lengths. The trailing edge of the band can be straight crenellated in accordance with any of or crenated. It is contemplated that the crenated band of can further include a slit in the band structure as illustrated in . In addition while not illustrated a band structure can comprise a crenulated i.e. having an irregularly wavy or serrate outline leading and or trailing edge the band optionally featuring one or more slits .

The geometry of the smoking article may also be designed to aid in achieving a preferred orientation for purposes of IP reduction. For example the opposed longitudinally banded regions see may be located at the edges of the major axis of a substantially elliptical smoking article A where the major axis of the substantially elliptical smoking article A naturally rests in a position substantially parallel to the substrate on which the smoking article is placed.

Such a smoking article A is also known as an oval smoking article. The base web for wrapper used in such an oval smoking article preferably has applied to it longitudinally banded regions of a film forming compound the constituents of which may be the same as discussed elsewhere in this description . Those longitudinally banded regions may be two parallel longitudinal stripes extending longitudinally along side portions of the smoking article. Stated differently the stripes may be provided on the base web so that when the paper is wrapped around the tobacco rod the stripes are spaced about degrees apart from one another. A smoking article may include longitudinally extending banded regions or stripes that preferably extend the length of the wrapper or tobacco rod. Preferably the banded regions are mutually opposed along opposing sides of the smoking article.

Due to the nature of an ellipse it can be appreciated that regardless of how an oval smoking article is placed on the substrate the smoking article A will eventually rest in one of two stable positions with either the upper or lower side resting against the substrate. Therefore even if longitudinally banded regions of add on material are formed only along the side portions of the generally elliptical article where there is a maximum curvature film forming compound will always be present on those side portions of the smoking article A that do not contact the substrate . Moreover cooperation between those longitudinally banded regions and the substrate in the stable positions appears to function to restrict airflow into the tobacco rod and leads to self extinction and a low IP value regardless of how the smoking article is initially placed on the substrate .

The predetermined pattern of add on material is typically applied to a base web having a permeability lying in the range of about 20 to about 80 CORESTA units. When dry the add on material often forms a film on the base web that is effective to locally reduce permeability to values lying in the range of 0 to about 12 CORESTA units more preferably 0 to about 10 CORESTA units. In some applications the add on material is applied as an aqueous solution including starch.

Preferably the banded region is applied to the wrapper using a gravure printing process. Gravure printing operations are capable of precise registry of successive printing operations. Accordingly gravure printing can be used to effectively print not only the first layer of the banded regions but also the optional successive layers.

In a successive gravure printing process preferably after the first layer is applied to the base web it is allowed to dry thereon using suitable arrangements prior to being advanced to a second gravure printing station where a second layer is applied to the first layer using conventional successive pass gravure printing equipment. Preferably the second layer is coextensive with the first layer in both width and length however the second layer may have a different basis weight in grams per square meter than the first layer. The occlusive composition of the second layer gels on the cooler first layer and free water does not migrate or become absorbed by the paper. Preferably the second layer is allowed to dry using suitable arrangements prior to being advanced to successive gravure printing station s where successive layer s are applied. Preferably the successive layer s are coextensive with the previous layer s in both width and length i.e. the layers do not have a stepped appearance however the successive layer s may have different basis weight in grams per square meter than the previous layer s or may comprise different add on compositions. Preferably successive layer s are preferably allowed to dry after the printing of each successive layer in accordance with well known gravure printing techniques and conventional gravure printing systems.

The gravure printing process can be used immediately following paper manufacture i.e. at a printing station at a location near the end of the paper making machine. Alternatively the gravure printing process can be used in connection with reels carrying the wrapper onto which the banded regions are to be printed. For example a reel of wrapper having a selected permeability and a selected basis weight is mounted so that the wrapper can be unspooled from the reel as a continuous base web.

The base web advances or passes through a first gravure printing station where the first layer of each banded region is printed on the paper. The printing process may be applied to the felt side or the wire side of the paper or both. Next the wrapper passes through a second gravure printing station where a second layer of each banded region is printed on the corresponding first layer. Additional layers are applied in a similar manner as described. Finally the wrapper with the printed banded regions is wound up on a collection reel. The collection reel is then cut into bobbins. The bobbins are then used during manufacture of the desired smoking article in conventional tobacco rod making machines.

The apparatus at each of the gravure printing stations is essentially the same in its material aspects. Accordingly it will suffice to describe one of the gravure printing stations in detail it being understood that the other gravure printing stations have common features unless otherwise noted. A single pass technique can be used to make the banded paper instead of a multi pass technique.

At the first gravure printing station the apparatus includes a gravure cylinder or roller generally mounted for rotation around a horizontal axis. The generally cylindrical surface of the roller is patterned i.e. with dots lines cells etc. in a suitable process to define a negative of the first layer of banded regions. Conventional engraving etching chemical engraving electronic engraving and photo etching can be used to pattern the surface of the gravure cylinder. The circumference of the roller is determined such that it is an integral multiple of the sum of the nominal distance between banded regions plus the banded region width. Thus for each revolution of the roller that integral number of first layers of the banded regions is printed on the wrapper.

With gravure printing while each layer of add on material may be applied uniformly each layer of add on material need not be applied uniformly. For example a layer of add on material may be applied such that discrete portions of the layer have differing gsm weights than other areas of the layer. This may be accomplished for example by printing a discrete portion of the layer having a differing basis weight than other areas of the layer in a separate printing stage using add on material having a differing basis weight. Alternatively a layer of add on material may be applied such that discrete portions of the layer have differing depths than other areas of the layer. This may be accomplished for example by patterning the gravure cylinder or roller so as to provide a discrete portion of the layer having a differing depth than other areas of the layer.

The multiple zones for example first second and third zones of the banded regions described herein may be applied in a single printing stage or multiple printing stages. When applied in multiple printing stages each zone which contains add on material may be applied in a separate printing stage. For example for a banded region containing first second and third zones wherein only the first and third zones contain add on material the first zone may be applied in a first printing stage and the third zone may be applied in a second printing stage. Alternatively when applied in a single printing stage the zones containing add on material are applied using an appropriately patterned gravure cylinder or roller. For example for a banded region containing first second and third zones wherein only the first and third zones contain add on material the gravure cylinder or roller is patterned so as to apply add on material only in the first and third zones.

An impression cylinder is mounted for counter rotation on an axis parallel to the axis of the roller. In some applications the impression cylinder includes a nonmetallic resilient surface. The impression cylinder is positioned between the roller and a backing roller which is also mounted for rotation on an axis parallel to the axis of the roller and which counter rotates relative to the impression cylinder. One of the functions provided by the backing roller is stiffening the central portions of the impression cylinder so that the uniform printing pressure is attained between the roller and the impression cylinder. The gravure cylinder or roller and the impression cylinder cooperate to define a nip through which the base web advances during the printing process. That nip is sized to pinch the base web as it moves between the gravure cylinder and the impression cylinder. The nip pressure on the base web ensures the correct transfer of the composition from the cylinder to the paper.

A reservoir contains the occlusive composition discussed above for forming banded regions on the wrapper. The reservoir communicates with a suitable pump which is capable of handling the viscous occlusive composition. The occlusive composition may then flow to a suitable heat exchanger where the temperature of the occlusive composition is elevated so that it lies in the range of about 40 to about 90 C. so that the viscosity of the occlusive composition is adjusted to a level which is suitable for gravure printing. As discussed above viscosity for gravure printing usually needs to be less than about 200 cP. Preferably the temperature of the occlusive composition is selected so that the viscosity is less than about 100 cP. For example the occlusive composition may have a viscosity of about 10 40 cP at room temperature.

While a separate heat exchanger is disclosed it may be desirable to provide thermal conditioning of the occlusive composition in the reservoir itself. For example heating elements and stirring apparatus may be included in the reservoir to maintain the elevated temperature for the occlusive composition. Placement of the thermal conditioning in the reservoir has the advantage of making pump selection and operating requirements simpler since the pump need not handle the occlusive composition at the higher viscosity associated with lower temperatures because the occlusive composition would already be heated and therefore at the lower viscosity. Whether thermal conditioning occurs in the reservoir or in a separate heat exchanger it is important that the thermal conditioning step occur at a temperature selected to avoid scorching the occlusive composition. Scorching can cause discoloration of the occlusive composition and can affect the occlusive characteristics of the composition. Thus scorching is to be avoided while the occlusive composition is subjected to thermal conditioning.

Regardless of where the thermal conditioning step occurs the heated occlusive composition is delivered to a suitable applicator that spreads the occlusive composition along the length of the gravure cylinder. That spreading step may be effected by pouring or spraying the occlusive composition onto the gravure cylinder or simply by delivering the liquid occlusive composition to a bath of occlusive composition that collects at the bottom of the gravure cylinder between the gravure cylinder and a collector. The cylinder may be heated to prevent premature cooling of the composition.

Generally the collector extends vertically around the gravure roller to a height sufficient to collect the bath but to a height well below the top of the gravure cylinder. When the bath reaches the top of the collector occlusive composition can flow through a drain at the bottom of the apparatus back into the reservoir. Thus the occlusive composition circulates through the printing station and can be maintained at suitable printing viscosity by the thermal conditioning apparatus discussed above.

As the gravure cylinder rotates through the applicator and or the bath the occlusive composition adheres to the surface of the gravure cylinder including in the impressions provided therein to define the banded regions. Further rotation of the gravure cylinder toward the nip moves the cylinder surface past a suitable doctor blade. The doctor blade extends along the length of the gravure cylinder and is positioned so that is wipes the surface of the gravure cylinder. In this way those portions of the gravure cylinder that define the nominal spacing between adjacent banded regions is essentially wiped clean of the occlusive composition while engraved portions of the gravure cylinder that define the banded regions themselves advance toward the nip full of the occlusive composition.

As the wrapper and the surface of the gravure cylinder move through the nip the occlusive composition is transferred to the surface of the wrapper. The linear speed or velocity of the wrapper matches the tangential surface speed of both the gravure cylinder and the impression cylinder as the wrapper passes through the nip. In that way slippage and or smearing of the occlusive composition on the wrapper are avoided.

The thickness of the multilayer banded regions preferably is less than about 20 of the thickness of the base web and may be less than 5 of the thickness of the base web. The thickness of the first layer of the banded region applied in the first gravure printing station preferably is less than 4 of the base web thickness and may be less than 1 of the base web thickness. Thus it is seen that the thickness of the first layer is small in relation to the thickness of the underlying base web.

As an alternative to printing the banded regions may comprise a slurry of highly refined fibrous cellulose e.g. fibers fibrils microfibrils or combinations thereof or other add on material applied using various spray or coating techniques including application techniques that utilize a moving orifice applicator at the forming section of a paper making machine as described in commonly owned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 997 691 and 6 596 125 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

When the word about is used in this specification in connection with a numerical value it is intended that the associated numerical value include a tolerance of 10 around the stated numerical value. Moreover when reference is made to percentages in this specification it is intended that those percentages are based on weight i.e. weight percentages.

The terms and phases used herein are not to be interpreted with mathematical or geometric precision rather geometric terminology is to be interpreted as meaning approximating or similar to the geometric terms and concepts. Terms such as generally and substantially are intended to encompass both precise meanings of the associated terms and concepts as well as to provide reasonable latitude which is consistent with form function and or meaning.

It will now be apparent to those skilled in the art that this specification describes a new useful and nonobvious smoking article. It will also be apparent to those skilled in the art that numerous modifications variations substitutes and equivalents exist for various aspects of the smoking article that have been described in the detailed description above. Accordingly it is expressly intended that all such modifications variations substitutions and equivalents that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims be embraced thereby.

