---

title: Mobile analytical screening, verification, and containment system
abstract: This mobile sample isolation and containment system is designed to provide a chemical and biological screening and verification capability within an environmentally-controlled area while minimizing exposure of analytical instruments to contamination. Only those parts of the analytical instrument absolutely necessary for retrieving sample information are disposed within the potentially contaminated enclosure, while other electrical or optical components remain outside said enclosure. The system uses multiple technologies that target, interrogate, and describe the same sample. Therefore, an analyst will not need to remove a hazardous sample from containment before it is identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180597&OS=09180597&RS=09180597
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09180597
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080617
---
The invention is in the field of chemical analysis. More specifically the invention is in the field of mobile chemical analysis containment equipment which can be used for analysis of hazardous and or toxic chemicals with minimal exposure to analytical instruments.

Fume hoods and glove boxes are typical laboratory equipment. For safety reasons many scientists are bringing analytical instrumentation for chemical and biological analysis into their fume hoods and glove boxes at the expense of contaminating the instruments. Having the instrumentation inside the glove boxes creates problems with space ergonomics cross contamination maintenance and decontamination if decontamination is even possible . With mobile laboratories becoming more prominent this approach will pose safety issues and the movement of contaminated instruments on public roads may possibly even be illegal in certain circumstances.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 730 765 herein incorporated in its entirety by reference is directed toward a super toxic analytical glove box system. This system is also designed to keep analysis instrumentation off the work surface of the glove box however the system only allows for gaseous analysis and is extremely cumbersome.

Therefore it is desirable to have an analysis and containment system that allows for an open work surface has instruments that are accessible through the walls of the system and is easily portable.

The system of the present invention leaves the already limited area of a glove box or fume hood working surface free for the items that are absolutely necessary and thus are more easily maintained. Only those parts of the analytical instruments necessary to retrieve the sample information are disposed within the containment area of the system. Decontamination between samples is rapid. Once unpackaged the operator can analyze dilute aliquot dispose of or repackage the sample in the safety of a controlled environment.

Sealed enclosure may have at least one transparent face . While transparent face is shown as the front face of sealed enclosure in transparent face can be any face of sealed enclosure . Transparent face may be of any transparent material including but not limited to glass plastic etc. Transparent face is coupled to sealed enclosure by an air tight seal.

Sealed enclosure may additionally have holes through which gloves shown in can extend. While holes are shown in transparent face holes may be in any face of sealed enclosure . Additionally holes may be in separate faces of sealed enclosure . While two holes are shown in and three holes are shown in any number of holes may be used. Gloves may be detachably sealed over holes so that a user can reach into sealed enclosure to manipulate a sample without breaching the seal. In other embodiments sealed enclosure may have other means for manipulating a sample including but not limited to robotic arms magnets tongs etc.

System may further include a control system for the sealed enclosure . Control system may allow a user to control the conditions inside sealed enclosure including but not limited to the power temperature air flow light conditions etc. Control system may also be able to visually and or audibly alert a user to any problems within sealed enclosure .

Sealed enclosure may be coupled to a filtration system . Filtration system may draw ambient air into sealed enclosure through inlet . Filtration system may draw internal possibly contaminated air out of sealed enclosure through outlet . Filtration system maybe any type of filtration system known but preferably filtration system may include one of a carbon gas filter and a high efficiency particulate air HEPA filter. In certain embodiments a gas waste stream can be vented directly back into the system.

System is configured so that the majority of the analytical instruments can be placed outside sealed enclosure with only the portion of each analytical instrument necessary to retrieve sample information being disposed within enclosure and thereby exposed to the sample. Such instruments may include but are not limited to optical spectroscopic instrumentation for methods such as absorption fluorescence phosphorescence scattering emission and chemiluminescence testing of the sample. In the embodiment shown in a Fourier transform infrared FTIR detector and a Raman spectroscopy detector are shown however any instrument or combination of instruments may be used. FTIR detector and Raman detector are both shown coupled to the bottom face of sealed enclosure however such instruments can be coupled to any face of sealed enclosure .

System may further include a processor . The processor may control the instruments process the analysis and export the results. The processor may be controlled by a hands free input device . Hands free input device may be a foot operated mouse that allows the user to manipulate the sample while controlling the processor. The processor may be in communication with a display device . Display device may be a flat screen monitor coupled to sealed enclosure . In certain embodiments the rear face of sealed enclosure may be a second transparent face and display device may be coupled to the outer surface of the second transparent face.

System may also include an airlock . Airlock may be coupled to any face of sealed enclosure . Airlock may have an outer door and an inner door as shown in each of which cannot be open while the other is open. While outer door is shown on the end of airlock in and on the side of airlock in outer door may be on any face of airlock . Airlock may be removable and may be able to be stored inside sealed enclosure . Such storage would facilitate in transporting system . Airlock provides a means for transferring items from outside enclosure in inside enclosure without loss of pressure differential within enclosure and possible escape of contaminated air from inside enclosure .

A closed circuit video camera may be mounted on a transparent face outside sealed enclosure . The closed circuit video camera may also be mounted to an inner surface of sealed enclosure so that the camera s field of view encompasses the work area of sealed enclosure . A microphone may also be coupled to the sealed enclosure . The microphone may be able to receive sounds from both within sealed enclosure and from outside sealed enclosure . The camera and microphone may be in communication with the processor . The processor may record data from the camera and microphone and may be able to relay the data to remote viewers thereby allowing an analyst to direct remote viewers to aspects of the sample that may be deemed important.

Sealed enclosure may have one or more removable panels. A removable panel may be replaced by an instrument mount . Instrument mount may be able to house and contain additional analysis instruments for example including but not limited to gas analyzers. As in the embodiment of analysis instruments may alternatively be mounted above airlock .

Sealed enclosure may further include a bar code reader surface mounted in one face of sealed enclosure . The bar code reader may be coupled to a sample management system. Furthermore system may have a voice recognition system for describing observation and producing field notes in a rapid manner. In certain embodiments biological robot devices can manipulate well plates and deliver them to the airlock for sample inoculation and sealing.

Other embodiments and uses of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. All references cited herein including all publications U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications are specifically and entirely incorporated by reference. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered exemplary only with the true scope and spirit of the invention indicated by the following claims. As used in the specification the term comprising includes the terms consisting of and consisting essentially of. 

