---

title: Method and apparatus for the laser scribing of ultra lightweight semiconductor devices
abstract: A system for the laser scribing of semiconductor devices includes a laser light source operable to selectably deliver laser illumination at a first wavelength and at a second wavelength which is shorter than the first wavelength. The system further includes a support for a semiconductor device and an optical system which is operative to direct the laser illumination from the light source to the semiconductor device. The optical system includes optical elements which are compatible with the laser illumination of the first wavelength and the laser illumination of the second wavelength. In specific instances, the first wavelength is long wavelength illumination such as illumination of at least 1000 nanometers, and the second wavelength is short wavelength illumination which in specific instances is 300 nanometers or shorter. By the use of the differing wavelengths, specific layers of the semiconductor device may be scribed without damage to subjacent layers. Also disclosed are specific scribing processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07964476&OS=07964476&RS=07964476
owner: United Solar Ovonic LLC
number: 07964476
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080324
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 896 292 filed Mar. 22 2007 entitled Method and Apparatus for the Laser Scribing of Ultra Lightweight Semiconductor Devices which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made at least in part under Air Force Research Laboratory Contract F29601 03 C 0122. The Government may have rights under this invention.

This invention relates generally to semiconductor devices and to methods and apparatus for their fabrication. More specifically the invention relates to methods and apparatus for the fabrication of ultra lightweight semiconductor devices such as photovoltaic devices.

In a number of instances laser scribing and welding processes are used in the fabrication of thin film semiconductor devices. These devices may comprise photovoltaic devices as well as other devices such as photodetector arrays electrophotographic components integrated circuits and the like. In the context of this disclosure the invention will be explained primarily with respect to the fabrication of thin film photovoltaic modules however it is to be understood that the principles disclosed herein are applicable to other types of semiconductor devices. In the fabrication of thin film photovoltaic modules a series of scribing and laser welding steps are utilized to configure various electrode and semiconductor layers into an array of individual cells which are interconnected in a series and or parallel relationship.

Such laser fabrication processes are precise and quick and hence such techniques are very often used in the fabrication of photovoltaic modules and other semiconductor devices. Some such laser fabrication processes are shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 767 762 5 268 037 6 011 215 and 5 468 988. Typically such devices of the prior art are fabricated on relatively thick substrates such as sheet metal or glass. However there is growing interest in the fabrication of ultra lightweight semiconductor devices and in particular ultra lightweight photovoltaic devices. In general lightweight photovoltaic devices are understood to be devices producing upward of approximately 1 000 watts per kilogram of weight and ultra lightweight photovoltaic devices are understood to be capable of producing upwards of approximately 2 000 watts per kilogram of weight. Such ultra lightweight devices are fabricated on thin flexible substrates which can include polymeric materials such as polyimides. Problems occur when laser fabrication techniques are utilized in connection with such ultra lightweight devices since the substrates themselves typically absorb most commonly employed laser wavelengths. Furthermore the ultra lightweight substrates have a very low thermal mass. As a result laser processing techniques can cause thermal damage to the substrates as well as to semiconductor and electrode layers supported thereupon. Hence the advantages of laser fabrication technology have not been heretofore successfully applied to the manufacture of thin film ultra lightweight semiconductor devices.

As will be described hereinbelow the present invention provides methods systems and apparatus which may be utilized to adapt laser technologies to the fabrication of ultra lightweight photovoltaic modules and other semiconductor devices.

The present invention is directed to a system for laser scribing a semiconductor device. The system includes a laser light source which is operable to selectably deliver laser illumination at a first wavelength and at a second wavelength which is shorter than the first wavelength. The system includes a support for a semiconductor device and an optical system which is operative to direct laser illumination from the laser light source to a semiconductor device retained upon the support. The optical system includes optical elements which are compatible with laser illumination at the first wavelength and at the second wavelength. The optical system is operable to scan the laser illumination across a semiconductor device which is retained upon the support. In specific embodiments the first wavelength is equal to or greater than 1000 nanometers. In further embodiments the second wavelength is equal to or shorter than 300 nanometers. The laser may be capable of operating in a pulsed mode with regard to at least one of the wavelengths and such pulses may be ultra short pulses such as nanosecond picosecond or femtosecond pulse lengths.

Also disclosed are methods for scribing layers of materials by utilizing a laser beam having a wavelength of less than or equal to 300 nanometers. In a specific instance there is disclosed a method for fabricating a semiconductor device by a process wherein a first electrode material is disposed on a substrate and scribed to form a plurality of spaced apart electrically isolated bodies of electrode material. A body of semiconductor material is disposed in a superposed relationship with the scribed first electrode and a second electrode is then disposed in a superposed relationship with the semiconductor body. The second electrode is scribed utilizing a laser having an output wavelength of 300 nanometers or less. In a further step at least one selected portion of the second electrode is illuminated with a laser beam so as to form an electrically conductive channel through the body of semiconductor material. The channel has an electrical resistivity which is lower than the resistivity of the remainder of the semiconductor body and establishes electrical contact between the electrodes. In specific instances the scribing of the first electrode may be carried out utilizing a laser and in particular instances this laser has a wavelength of at least 1000 nanometers. In specific instances the method may be carried out utilizing the aforedescribed dual wavelength laser system. The method and apparatus may be utilized for the verification of thin film semiconductor devices such as photovoltaic devices which include group IV thin film semiconductor alloy layers.

As will be described herein it has been found that laser scribing welding and such fabrication techniques may be adapted for use in connection with thin film ultra lightweight semiconductor devices by appropriately choosing laser wavelengths and illumination profiles so as to prevent damage to substrates and semiconductor layers. In particular it has been found that deep ultraviolet illumination which is understood herein to include illumination at wavelengths of 300 nanometers or less particularly when applied in a series of short pulses can provide for the differential scribing of electrode layers and semiconductor devices without generation of excessive heat which could damage either the materials comprising these layers or a lightweight substrate upon which they are disposed. It has further been found that longer thermal infrared wavelengths typically of 1000 nanometers or more may be used for other operations in device fabrication such as laser welding of layers and in some instances particular scribing steps.

In accord with another aspect of this invention it has been found that a single laser system may be operated so as to provide both deep ultraviolet and infrared wavelengths. A system capable of providing such dual wavelengths when used in combination with an optical system capable of operating at both wavelengths will greatly simplify a process for fabricating ultra lightweight semiconductor devices. Since a single optical path and set of optics may be used for operations at both wavelengths problems of system alignment and control are greatly reduced.

In one particular system illumination is provided by a diode pumped Nd YVOlaser system which outputs a fundamental wavelength at 1064 nanometers and a fourth harmonic deep UV beam at 266 nm. A laser system of this type can provide high power deep ultraviolet radiation typically of at least 3 watts at 266 nm with very short pulse duration and high speed repetition. In particular systems pulse width can be as narrow as approximately 10 nSec at a 15 kHz rate. Systems of this type can operate at a pulse repetition rate up to 100 kHz.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic depiction of a laser scribing system which is operational to scribe a semiconductor device . The system includes a laser light source which is capable of being operated so as to produce two distinct wavelengths of light. In accord with the present invention one wavelength is a short wavelength typically of 300 nm or less and the other wavelength is a long thermal wavelength typically of 1000 nm or more. As discussed above the laser may in specific instances be a diode pumped Nd YVOlaser. This laser is capable of operating in a pulse mode and providing very short pulse lengths at a high rate of repetition. Other laser systems may similarly be incorporated into the apparatus of the present invention. The drawing of is simplified and does not show all of the control and support circuitry and systems for the laser however such systems are very well known in the art and will be readily apparent to those of skill. The laser produces a beam which passes through a controller . This controller may comprise one or more units which are operable to select the appropriate wavelength of laser illumination control pulse length and or otherwise condition the laser beam for particular operations. The beam passes from the controller to a scanner which in this instance comprises a set of controllable mirrors which can direct the beam along an XY axis of the semiconductor device. As further shown in the scanner may include optical elements which can aid in focusing the beam .

As further shown in a semiconductor device is disposed upon a support which in this instance is a support table. The support may be fixed or it may also be movable relative to the laser system so as to further facilitate scribing. As shown the beam is focused onto the device and scanned across the surface of the device and in the illustrated embodiments several scribe lines have been formed on the device .

The scanning system has been illustrated in in a very schematic sense so as to illustrate the critical components thereof. However it is to be understood that support framework power supplies cooling lines and the lice will typically be included in a scribing system. However such elements are well known to those of skill in the art and for simplicity of illustration have not been included herein. Also it should be noted that while the system of shows a scan being carried out on a single device scanning may be carried out on a large web of material as part of an integrated fabrication process. In this regard the scribing system may be incorporated into a roll to roll processing unit and may be implemented in scribing stations operative at different portions of the processing apparatus and in different stages of the fabrication process. Again all of such embodiments and modifications will be apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the teaching presented herein.

Aspects of the invention will be illustrated with regard to a method for the fabrication of one exemplary type of photovoltaic module as depicted in . It is to be understood that the methods described herein may be adapted for the fabrication of other types of semiconductor devices including photovoltaic devices display devices photosensors and non photosensitive devices.

In a first step of this particular process as shown in a body of electrode material is disposed upon a substrate . In the fabrication of ultra lightweight photovoltaic devices substrates typically comprise thin bodies of polymeric material such as a polyimide material sold under the designation Kapton although other substrates including metal foil substrates composite substrates and the like may be employed. The first electrode is in particular instances comprised of a layer of metal having good electrical conductivity and good reflectivity for photoactive wavelengths. As such this first electrode is at times referred to as a back reflector layer. In other instances other electrode materials including transparent conductive oxide materials may be employed as a first electrode. As is known in the art this electrode layer may include further materials including current buffer layers optical layers electrode grid structures and the like. In that regard the invention may be practiced in combination with a wide variety of substrates and electrodes.

In a second step of the process as is shown in the first electrode layer is scribed through to the substrate layer so as to form a number of electrically isolated segments. In one embodiment of module the width of the segments is approximately 1 centimeter however other configurations are contemplated. Scribing of this first electrode may be carried out utilizing either long wavelength laser output typically at 1000 nanometers or more or short laser wavelengths typically of 300 nanometers or less. In the case of the particular laser system described herein the primary long wavelength beam output is at 1064 nm and the short wavelength deep ultraviolet output is at 266 nm. It has been found that in a laser scribing process some of the first electrode material which is ablated away may redeposit along the scribed lines producing short circuits in the finished device and or creating pinholes in subsequently deposited layers. Therefore it is desirable to clean away any such debris and it has been found that ultrasonic cleaning of the scribed electrode substrate combination is effective in providing clean electrically isolated scribes.

In a subsequent step as is shown in a body of semiconductor material is deposited atop the scribed substrate first electrode combination. This semiconductor material may in the instance of the fabrication of photovoltaic devices comprise a photovoltaically active assemblage of semiconductor layers. In particular instances the semiconductor body includes at least one triad comprised of a layer of substantially intrinsic semiconductor material interposed between oppositely doped P and N layers. This assemblage of layers creates a photovoltaic device. In specific instances a plurality of such triads are stacked in an optical and electrical series relationship to produce a multi junction cell. In particular instances the semiconductor body is comprised of thin film layers of group IV semiconductor materials such as silicon containing materials germanium containing materials and silicon germanium containing materials. Such technology is well known and described in the art. As will be seen the semiconductor body at least partially fills in the scribed lines in the first electrode .

As is shown in a second top electrode is deposited in a superposed relationship with a semiconductor body . As particularly depicted the top electrode is directly upon the semiconductor body however it is to be understood that this layer just like the first electrode may be separated from the semiconductor body by intervening layers as is known in the art. In a typical photovoltaic device this second top electrode is fabricated from an electrically conductive optically transparent material such as a metal oxide. Some such metal oxides include oxides of zinc tin indium and the like. In a particular instance the electrode is fabricated from indium tin oxide.

It has been found in the prior art that laser scribing of an indium tin oxide layer disposed atop a thin film semiconductor body such as a group IV thin film semiconductor material can cause damage to the semiconductor material as a result of overheating. The damage to the semiconductor layer can short the device between the two electrodes and or create an electrically conductive path across scribed portions of the top electrode. Such damage can affect the function of the photovoltaic module. In accord with the present invention as is shown in it has been found that use of a cold wavelength of 300 nanometers or less allows for scribing to be carried out without causing such damage. In particular the scribing is carried out using short wavelength illumination and short pulse durations typically in the range of 5 50 nanoseconds and in particular instances 5 15 nanoseconds and in a specific instances approximately 10 nanoseconds In yet other instances still shorter pulse durations may be used and such may be achieved through the use of technologies such as mode locked picosecond and femtosecond lasers. As with regard to the first laser scribing process of it has been found advantageous in some instances to ultrasonically clean the device following scribing of the top electrode to remove any debris therefrom.

A further step may be carried out in the fabrication process and that involves isolation laser scribing. This step is carried out after the scribing of the second electrode and operates to remove all material down to the substrate level in selected portions of the device. This is for the purpose of isolating what will ultimately become a connected string of cells from the remainder of the substrate. This isolation scribing when implemented can be done utilizing high laser power typically at short wavelengths.

Referring now to there is shown a top plan view of a portion of a semiconductor device generally similar to the devices discussed with reference to following the scribing of an isolation channel therein. As shown in an isolation channel is scribed across the front face of the semiconductor device. This channel passes through the top electrode layer as well as through the subjacent semiconductor layer and bottom electrode layer both of which are not visible in this top plan view. The channel exposes a portion of the substrate layer at its base. Since the substrate is electrically insulating this channel effectively isolates portions of the device from electrical contact with one another. Also apparent in is a series of interconnect welds and as well as scribe lines in the top electrode layer . These features will be better seen and understood with reference to which will be discussed below.

Referring now to there is shown a cross sectional view of the device of taken along line . better illustrates the scribed isolation channel with regard to its positional relationship with the substrate bottom electrode layer semiconductor layer and top electrode layer .

Referring now to there is shown a final step in this portion of the fabrication process. In interconnect welds shown at reference numerals are formed in the device so as to extend from the first electrode through the semiconductor body to the second electrode . These welds form a relatively low resistance electrical path through the semiconductor body and effectively electrically interconnect segments of the scribed bottom electrode with adjacent segments of the scribed top electrode. In this manner individual series connected photovoltaic cells are formed. The fact that the lateral resistivity of the semiconductor body is quite large limits shorting between portions of adjacent cells. The interconnect welding can be implemented using long wavelength radiation such as 1064 mn. In particular instances it has been found that superior interconnection is established by using two parallel dotted lines of welds passing through a module.

The foregoing general process may be implemented in a variety of specific processes for the fabrication of ultra lightweight photovoltaic devices. In one specific group of processes modules comprising monolithically integrated series interconnected photovoltaic devices were prepared on thin approximately 0.7 mil thick polyimide material. As is known in the art the polyimide was initially supported on a stainless steel carrier and this carrier was subsequently removed by etching following module fabrication. In this process each module included approximately 20 strip cells connected in series. The operating voltage for such modules is approximately 30 volts and the dimension of each module is approximately 25 centimeters by 20 centimeters. The modules were fabricated onto a substrate comprising the 0.7 mil polyimide supported on stainless steel. The polyimide substrate was coated with a bottom electrode back reflector material comprising a layer of silver having a layer of ZnO thereatop. The back reflector coated substrate material was cut into slabs of approximately 14 by 20 inches for batch processing. In a first step the back reflector electrode layer was scribed as described above. A semiconductor body comprising a triple junction grouping of layers was deposited thereatop. As described above a triple junction device includes three stacked triads of p i n configuration disposed in an optical and electrical series relationship. The triads were comprised of group IV hydrogenated alloys as known in the prior art. A transparent indium tin oxide based top electrode layer was disposed atop the semiconductor body. The thus produced cell was short passivated to remove shunts and shorts in the device and the ITO layer was then laser scribed to form electrically isolated segments. Laser welding was then carried out in accord with the description of to interconnect ti he top ITO layer of one segment to the back reflector electrode layer of the adjacent segment. Following scribing and interconnecting a top protective layer of a silicone material was deposited onto the device. This layer had a thickness of approximately 0.1 mil. Following these processing steps a chemical etching step was then used to remove the stainless steel. The resulting freestanding laser integrated module was trimmed to the desired dimensions and positive and negative contacts were affixed. It was found that this process reliably produced high quality devices in high yields. Clearly in view of the teaching presented herein the methods and systems of the present invention may be readily adapted for the manufacture of other configurations of electronic devices.

The foregoing principles may be adapted to the fabrication of a variety of otherwise configured devices including but not limited to photovoltaic devices. The foregoing drawings discussion and description are illustrative of specific embodiments of this invention but are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

