---

title: Systems and methods for insurance coverage
abstract: A user may use a financial card to make a purchase at a merchant. An institution system may receive and analyze transaction data associated with the purchase. The institution system may send a notice to the user asking if the user would like insurance coverage for the item(s) pertaining to the purchase. The notice may request the user send a photo of the item(s) or documentation pertaining to the item(s) to the institution system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07729930&OS=07729930&RS=07729930
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 07729930
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080625
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 611 filed Oct. 17 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 642 filed Oct. 17 2008 filed as divisional applications of the instant application the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety.

Insurance is a form of risk management primarily used to hedge against the risk of a contingent loss and may be defined as the equitable transfer of the risk of a loss from one entity to another in exchange for a premium. An insurer is a company that sells insurance. An insurance rate is a factor used to determine the amount called the premium to be charged for a certain amount of insurance coverage. Considerable delay often occurs between the time a user purchases an item that the user may want to have covered by insurance and the time when the item is covered by the insurance by the insurer.

A user may use a financial card to make a purchase at a merchant. An institution system may receive and analyze transaction data associated with the purchase. The institution system may send a notice to the user asking if the user would like insurance coverage for the item s pertaining to the purchase. The notice may request the user send a photo of the item s or documentation pertaining to the item s to the institution system.

In an implementation the amount of the purchase may be compared to a threshold amount and if the threshold is exceeded then the institution system may contact the user about insuring the item s associated with the purchase. Alternatively or additionally the user may be contacted about insuring the item s if the merchant category code MCC of the purchase corresponds to one or more particular categories of goods and or services.

In an implementation the institution system may generate an inventory list of items purchased by the user with the financial card. The inventory list may be provided to the user. The user may revise the inventory list.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A user and an associated user computing device are shown along with a merchant and a financial card issuer . The user may make a purchase from the merchant using a financial card and insure item s associated with the purchase with the institution system . The financial card issuer may issue the financial card and or process transactions associated with the financial card . The financial card issuer may be an entity that provides services pertaining to aspects and behaviors of financial cards. It is contemplated that the institution system may handle such aspects and or behaviors of financial cards and that the financial card issuer may not be used.

The financial card may be a credit card or a prepaid credit card for example. A credit card is a system of payment in which money is not removed from the user s account after every transaction. The financial card issuer which may be an entity associated with the institution system or a third party lends money to the user to be paid to the merchant . A prepaid credit card referred to herein as a prepaid card is not really a credit card as no credit is offered by the financial card issuer the user spends money which has been stored via a prior deposit by the user or someone else such as a parent or employer. However it carries a credit card brand e.g. Visa or MasterCard and can be used in similar ways. After obtaining a prepaid card the user loads it with any amount of money and then uses the prepaid card to spend the money. In addition to a credit card or a prepaid card the financial card may be any type of payment device such as a debit card a stored value card a department store credit card a mobile device an RFID radio frequency identification device or a near field communications device for example.

The user may use the financial card to make a purchase at the merchant . As described further herein the institution system may receive and analyze transaction data associated with the purchase. The institution system may send a notice to the user e.g. via email instant messaging telephone facsimile mail SMS short message service MMS multimedia messaging service a proprietary application residing on the user computing device etc. asking if the user would like insurance coverage for the item s pertaining to the purchase. The notice may request the user send a photo of the item s or documentation pertaining to the item s to the institution system . The notice may be sent to a computing device associated with the user such as the user computing device .

The institution system may include a user interface module an insurance engine and a data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the insurance engine . In an implementation the page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a secure website associated with the institution system .

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only by a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The user may be an individual who owns an insurance product also may be referred to herein as a policy or other account that may be provided by or held by the institution associated with the institution system . The user may provide data to the institution system via the user computing device . The user computing device may be a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example or any type of personal computer PC . The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network. The user may communicate with the institution system by way of a communications network such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless fidelity WiFi network a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. An example user computing device is described with respect to . The user may also communicate with the institution system by phone email instant messaging facsimile mail and the like.

The merchant may be any entity that may sell a product to the user . The user as well as the institution system and the financial card issuer may be in communication with the merchant via a communications network. During the authorization of a transaction the merchant may send data associated with the purchase such as amount merchant name merchant category code MCC and financial card number for example to the financial card issuer in an authorization message for verification and processing. An MCC is a number assigned to a business and is used to classify the business by the type of goods or services it provides. In an implementation the authorization message may comprise additional data such as an itemized listing of the purchased items.

The institution system may have the ability to interact with information that may be maintained and or provided by the merchant e.g. information pertaining to purchases made by the user . Additionally the financial card issuer and the user may be in communication with the institution system via a communications network.

In an implementation the user may provide photo s or documentation about the item s purchased that they would like to insure to the institution system . The user may use an image generator comprising a scanner for example to generate a digital image of the item s receipt proof of purchase or other documentation. It is contemplated that any device that is capable of generating a digital image may be used to make the digital image s . Additional devices that may be used in the generation of a digital image include a digital camera a photocopier a fax machine and the like for example.

The user may transmit the digital image to the institution system via the user computing device . The institution system may use the digital image to generate or revise a premium quote for insuring the item s purchased by the user or finalize insurance for the item s . If a digital image is received the insurance engine may use any known image processing software or other application s to obtain the data from the digital image. The data may be used in the generation of a premium quote. Alternatively the user may provide the photo receipt proof of purchase or other documentation about the item s to the institution system by any other electronic or physical techniques.

As described further herein the insurance engine may receive the transaction data pertaining to the purchase which may include a receipt a proof of purchase and or other documentation and generate a premium quote using a premium generator . The premium generator may use any techniques s for generating a premium quote for insuring the item s . The premium generator may use data retrieved from data source s by a data source access engine . Additionally the premium generator may request and receive information pertaining to the item s from the user and or the merchant . This information may be used in generation of the premium quote. After retrieving or otherwise receiving the data from the various sources the premium generator may use tools applications and aggregators for example to generate a premium quote for insurance of the item s . The premium quote may be provided to the user who may accept the premium quote.

The insurance engine may comprise an insurance processor that may receive and analyze transaction data as described herein. The insurance processor may also send a request to the user requesting instructions regarding insuring items the user may have purchased with the financial card . The insurance processor may receive instructions from the user and act on the instructions accordingly.

The insurance engine may comprise an inventory generator that may generate and maintain an inventory list of the items as described further herein. The inventory list may comprise items purchased by the user with the financial card as well as items that the user may add to the inventory list e.g. via the website .

The insurance engine has access to data files and documents pertaining to the user as well as any other data files and documents that are currently stored by the institution system as well as external data files and documents and that may be useful in generating premium quotes writing insurance policies and maintaining inventory lists.

The institution system has the ability to retrieve information from one or more data sources via a data source access engine . Data pertaining to the user the user s insurance policies and or the user account s may be retrieved from data source s and or external data sources. The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage . Other information may be provided to the institution system from the user and or the merchant .

Data source s may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. insurance policy data such as items covered premiums and coverage amounts and limits as well as other account information. The institution system may access this information when generating premium quotes writing insurance policies or maintaining inventory lists for example.

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the insurance engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the insurance engine . As mentioned above the institution system may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation may be combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to insurance and inventory data and status and related data can be accomplished. The user may enter information into the web pages via a web browser on the user computing device . Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein.

Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used in conjunction with generating a premium quote and sending the premium quote to the user issuing an insurance policy maintaining an inventory list generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from the user for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

In an implementation the institution system may have access to the transaction data because of a relationship the institution system has with the financial card issuer. Alternatively or additionally the institution system may scrape the transaction data from a website associated with the financial card provided the institution system has the appropriate credentials and or authorization e.g. provided by the user the financial card issuer etc.

At the institution system may analyze the transaction data associated with the purchase against one or more predetermined criteria. If the predetermined criteria are met then the institution system may contact the user at and ask the user if they would like insurance coverage on the item s associated with the purchase e.g. by adding the item s to an existing insurance policy or purchasing a new insurance policy for the item s . The institution system may contact the user via phone email instant messaging and the like. The user may accept or decline the offer to insure the item s . Assuming the user accepts the institution system may add the item s to an existing insurance policy of the user or a new insurance policy at .

At some point at the user may provide one or more photos of the item s and or documentation pertaining to the item s to the institution system to provide further evidence about the item s to the institution system. The user may use a digital camera a phone or any type of device or an image generator to generate a photo or digital image of the item s and or the documentation. The user may provide the photo s and or documentation by any electronic or physical techniques such as email via a website mail or facsimile. The photo s and or documentation may be stored by the institution system and may be used in the generation or revision of a premium quote.

If the predetermined criteria are not met at an offer to insure the item s associated with the purchase may not be generated or made to the user and processing may end at .

In an implementation the institution system may generate a premium quote to insure the item s and may provide the premium quote to the user when asking the user if they would like insurance coverage on the item s . Alternatively the institution system may provide a premium quote to the user after the user accepts an offer to insure the item s .

Regarding the predetermined criteria in an implementation the amount of the purchase may be compared to a threshold purchase amount e.g. 500 1000 etc. and if the threshold purchase amount is exceeded then the institution system may contact the user about insuring the item s associated with the purchase.

In an implementation the user may be contacted about insuring the item s only if the MCC corresponds to one or more particular categories of goods and or services. For example if the MCC for a transaction corresponds to jewelry or retail electronics then the user may be contacted about insuring the item s associated with the purchase otherwise the user may not be contacted.

In an implementation an MCC may have a particular threshold purchase amount associated with it. If the threshold purchase amount for the MCC is exceeded by a purchase then the user may be contacted about insuring the item s . Different MCCs may have different threshold purchase amounts. For example the MCC for retail electronics may have a threshold purchase amount of 500 and the MCC for jewelry may have a threshold purchase amount of 2000. Alternatively or additionally the user may be contacted about insuring the item s if a threshold purchase amount is exceeded regardless of the MCC. For example if the amount of the purchase is greater than 5000 then the user may be contacted about insuring the item s regardless of the MCC that is associated with the transaction.

The institution system may obtain data from the merchant corresponding to the purchase such as the particular items purchased and the purchase price of each item in the purchase. is an operational flow of an implementation of a method that may be used to provide insurance coverage for a user purchase. At a user makes a purchase using their financial card. The institution system may receive transaction data at and may store the transaction data at .

At the institution system may analyze the transaction data associated with the purchase against one or more predetermined criteria such as purchase amount and or MCC. If the predetermined criteria are not met processing may end at . If the predetermined criteria are met at the institution system may contact the merchant for additional information about the purchase such as item data comprising the particular items purchased and their associated purchase prices.

At the institution system may receive the item data and parse the item data for individual items in the purchase. At the institution system may analyze the item data against one or more predetermined criteria such as cost and or product type e.g. to determine which of the items may be protectable under an insurance policy that may be issued by the institution system to the user e.g. a homeowner s policy of the user .

At if the predetermined criteria are met the institution system may contact the user and ask the user if they would like insurance coverage on the item s e.g. by adding the item s to an existing insurance policy or purchasing a new insurance policy for the item s . The institution system may provide a premium quote for each of the items. The user may want insurance on one or more of the items and provide an indication to the institution system at and the institution system may add the item s to an existing insurance policy of the user or a new insurance policy at .

If the predetermined criteria are not met at an offer to insure the item s associated with the purchase may not be generated or made to the user and processing may end at .

From time to time such as periodically e.g. the first day of each month the closing date of the financial card billing cycle etc. at the institution system may analyze the transaction data associated with the purchases during the period of time against one or more predetermined criteria and generate a list of the purchases made with the financial card that meet the predetermined criteria. The list may be provided to the user at e.g. electronically or physically e.g. by email via a website mail facsimile phone etc. A request may be provided to the user at to indicate if they would like insurance coverage on the item s associated with any of the purchases on the list e.g. by adding the item s to an existing insurance policy or purchasing a new insurance policy for the item s .

At the user may indicate which if any of the purchases on the list have one or more associated items that they would like to insure. The user may provide the indication to the institution system electronically or physically. The user may also provide information e.g. photos documentation etc. on the particular item s associated with the purchase s that they would like to insure. The institution system may add the item s to an existing insurance policy of the user and or a new insurance policy at .

The transaction data may be used in the generation or updating of an inventory list that the institution system may maintain. is an operational flow of another implementation of a method that may be used to provide insurance coverage for a user purchase. At a user makes a purchase using their financial card. The institution system may receive and store transaction data at .

At the institution system may obtain item data for the purchase e.g. by contacting the merchant associated with the purchase and or by contacting the user. In an implementation the institution system may request from the user and or the merchant a list of the particular items that were purchased and their associated purchase prices. Alternatively or additionally the institution system may ask the user for a copy e.g. via facsimile or digital image sent by email or via a website of the receipt associated with the purchase and may use the receipt to identify the particular items that were purchased and their associated purchase prices.

In addition to using item data to revise or generate an insurance policy e.g. as described above with respect to the methods and the institution system may generate an inventory list of the user e.g. a home contents inventory at and may store the inventory list or the data contained therein in storage associated with the institution system.

In an implementation the inventory list may be provided to the user or may be accessible to the user at e.g. via a website associated with the institution system. The inventory list may be provided to the user listed by subject matter e.g. jewelry electronics etc. by room in the house e.g. living room dining room etc. or by any other characteristic s .

At the user may revise the inventory list e.g. by making additions deletions or other changes and may add notes to the list such as notes pertaining to the items on the list. The user may also indicate the location e.g. the room of the house of one or more items. The institution system may store the revisions and or the revised inventory list at .

It is contemplated that the institution may use the item data in various analyses such as determining risks and adjusting insurance rates accordingly and maintaining a list of high risk items such as hot oil cookers and propane tanks for example.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device.

One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

