---

title: Performing real-time analytics using a network processing solution able to directly ingest IP camera video streams
abstract: The present invention discloses a solution for an intelligent video surveillance (IVS) system able to perform real-time analytics on internet protocol (IP) video streams which are directly ingested by the IVS system. An internet protocol camera can be identified and connected to the intelligent video surveillance system which lacks an intermediate video management component. The raw video stream can be received directly from the camera in the form of a real-time video stream such as real-time streaming protocol (RTSP). One or more real-time analytics can be performed on said video stream based on one or more system criteria and user established criteria. When an incident event is detected one or more programmatic actions can be performed in response to analytics enacted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08325228&OS=08325228&RS=08325228
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08325228
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080725
---
The present invention relates to the field of video analytics and more particularly to performing real time analytics using a network processing solution able to directly ingest internet protocol IP camera video streams.

Intelligent video surveillance IVS plays a pivotal role in managing threats maintaining safety and assisting in security. IVS systems provide analytics alert first responders during an incident event and provide a deterrent to potential aggressors. Many intelligent video surveillance systems require intermediate systems such as video management systems VMSs to organize surveillance artifacts e.g. cameras locations footage etc . That is a local VMS is effectively a local hub which peripheral devices e.g. video cameras microphones surveillance sensors etc. connect. Local VMSs can process the received input can record timed video and can perform other programmatic tasks.

A number of network solutions IBM s Smart Surveillance Solution for example exist which provide services to enhance capabilities of existing VMSs. These network solutions can integrate data from multiple sensors and analog and digital cameras into one searchable system can permit searching of data according to a broad range of parameters e.g. time date alert object size location and color can share data across agencies countries and departments can permit information to be accessed and viewed remotely from a Web browser can prioritize critical events and store video associated with these events in long term storage and can analyze footage for perpetrator identification theft prevention and damage detection customer behavior etc.

Conventional network solutions are designed to only interact with VMSs. Many potential customers however do not possess a VMS and or would desire to minimize their video surveillance costs by retiring an existing VMS if an option existed to receive desired services directly from a network solution provider. For example many individuals and or entities desire capabilities of video analytics which is a capability generally lacking or non robust in all but the highest end VMSs. It would be beneficial if network solutions providing video processing capabilities such as analytics were made more accessible by eliminating the requirement which often functions as an entry barrier of possessing a VMS.

The present invention can be implemented in accordance with numerous aspects consistent with the material presented herein. For example one aspect of the present invention can include a system for performing video analytics. The system can include an intelligent video surveillance system configured to directly ingest video streams from at least one network connected IP camera. The intelligent video surveillance system can be further configured to perform real time video analytics on the directly ingested video stream. In one embodiment the system can also include a filter specific to the network connected IP camera that is an application programming interface API configured to decode the video steam from the network connected IP camera before conveying the decoding video stream to the intelligent video surveillance system. The real time video analytics can include face recognition object tracking motion detection and the like.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a method and computer program product for intelligent video surveillance. In this aspect a raw real time time video stream from a remotely located internet protocol camera connected to a network can be identified. The raw real time video stream can be processed using an application program interface. The processed video stream can be conveyed to an analytics engine. At least one video analytics programmatic action can be performed in real time against the processed video stream.

It should be noted that various aspects of the invention can be implemented as a program for controlling computing equipment to implement the functions described herein or as a program for enabling computing equipment to perform processes corresponding to the steps disclosed herein. This program may be provided by storing the program in a magnetic disk an optical disk a semiconductor memory or any other recording medium. The program can also be provided as a digitally encoded signal conveyed via a carrier wave. The described program can be a single program or can be implemented as multiple subprograms each of which interact within a single computing device or interact in a distributed fashion across a network space.

The present invention discloses a solution for performing real time analytics using input from internet protocol IP cameras directly connected to a network where the analytics are performed by a remotely located network element. In the solution a network element providing intelligent video surveillance IVS services is able to directly interact with raw output of a set of one or ore IP cameras. No video management system VMS intermediary is needed or is existent between the IP cameras and the remotely located IVS service provider. The IVS service provider can perform real time analytics a video stream directly ingested from one or more IP cameras. Real time analytics performed on the stream can include face recognition object tracking motion detection and the like.

In one embodiment an owner of an IP camera or an establishment where the IP cameras are deployed can establish user location specific profile settings. These profile settings can specify thresholds and elements to be examined by analytic processing operations and can establish user specific programmatic actions to be performed based the analytic processing results. Programmatic action can include for example notification alerts programmatic actions altering a localized system and the like. Profile settings can be arbitrarily complex which can include multiple IP camera video streams one or more analytics per stream and the like.

The present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD. Other computer readable medium can include a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet an intranet a personal area network PAN or a magnetic storage device. Transmission media can include an electrical connection having one or more wires an optical fiber an optical storage device and a defined segment of the electromagnet spectrum through which digitally encoded content is wirelessly conveyed using a carrier wave.

Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium can even include paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In scenario IP cameras can be connected to intelligent video surveillance system via communication port . Communication port can include physical connections such as Ethernet twisted pair wireless communication ports and the like. Physical layer components and network technologies can vary based on camera port and network configurations. Raw video stream can be conveyed from property via network directly to IVS system without being treated by a video management system.

Engine can receive and decode raw video stream prior to performing analytics on stream . Default analytics established by computing environment and IVS system can be combined with owner settings to provide customized monitoring for property . For instance to reduce the likelihood of false alerts from facial recognition owner can provide portrait pictures of authorized personnel for property . Analytics engine can be used to detect incident events which can include motion detection object tracking presence detection and the like.

Mobile computing device can be a portable hardware software device able to receive alerts and communicate with computing environment . Device can include mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop ultra mobile computing devices and the like. The device need not be a portable device but can be any device e.g. a personal computer a home telephone etc. able to receive communicated notifications.

Computing environment can include a set of software components able to provide monitoring and analysis functionality. For example environment can be a JAVA 2 ENTERPRISE EDITION J2EE environment such as IBM s WEBSPHERE. Functionality can be embodied as Web services which can include remote control monitoring reporting and the like. Components can include intelligent video surveillance system and analytics engine . In one embodiment IVS system can be implemented within a middleware software platform.

In scenario an IP camera can convey a raw video stream to a smart surveillance engine SSE . SSE utilizing DIRECT SHOW filter can process the raw video stream received from IP camera . DIRECTSHOW filter can be a software application programming interface API able to decode Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Motion Joint Photographic Expert Group M JPEG and the like. Decoded video streams can be analyzed in real time by SSE to provide notifications and alerts to appropriate entities. Middleware for Large Scale Surveillance MILS server can provide consolidation management and access for video streams processed by SSE . In one embodiment MILS server can be a JAVA 2 ENTERPRISE EDITION J2EE software platform. Metadata exported from video streams can be indexing and managed using database .

As used herein IP cameras can include cameras able to convey a video stream to an IVS system using one or more internet protocols. The IVS system can be one or more component systems lacking an intermediate video management system. System can be able to record monitor perform real time analytics and reporting on IP camera streams. Real time analytics can encompass real time and near real time analysis of video streams.

IP camera which can include volatile memory and transceiver can convey raw video stream to IVS . Video information received from camera optics can be temporarily stored in volatile memory prior to transmission. Transmission of video stream to IVS can be facilitated by transceiver which can convey stream via network . In one embodiment raw video stream can include an H.264 MPEG4 encoded video stream.

IVS can receive and process raw video stream to condition the stream for analytics. Processing can be predicated on camera modules which can allow IVS to interface with vendor specific camera configurations. In one embodiment modules can be a plug in based framework allowing vendor specific application programming interfaces APIs to interoperate with IVS . Modules can enable IVS to perform actions such as query camera data enable remote control of cameras and the like.

Once processed video stream can be analyzed and incident events can be identified. Analytics engine can perform one or more examinations of video stream . In one embodiment one or more frames of video stream can be analyzed based on one or more specialized algorithms. Algorithms can include but is not limited to face recognition path tracking object tracking motion detection presence detection and the like. Extracted data from video stream can be stored in data store . Data can include but is not limited to attribute data incident information actions taken in response to incident events and the like. For instance attribute table data can be used to index and search processed video streams quickly.

Profile manager can permit user and or camera specific settings to be maintained for a set of IP cameras . For instance analytics such as object tracking and license plate identification can be enabled for cameras surveilling a loading dock at a warehouse. Manager can be utilized to maintain user notification settings which can vary based on camera analytics incident events and the like.

Notification engine can be used to provide alerts to users authorities first responders and the like. When an incident event occurs notification engine can communicate messages to one or more user configured devices. Further engine can be used to manage varying degrees of critical alerts. For instance when motion is detected in a non critical area of surveillance a text exchange message can be delivered to a user notifying of a possible presence.

Communication server can enable IVS to execute one or more communication functions in response to real time analytics performed. Server can include but is not limited to a text exchange server telephony server facsimile server and the like. Although presented as a separate entity communication server functionality can be expressed in IVS system .

As used herein IP cameras can include cameras able to convey a video stream to an IVS system using one or more internet protocols. The IVS system can be one or more component systems lacking an intermediate video management system able to record monitor perform real time analytics and reporting. Real time analytics can encompass real time and near real time analysis of video streams. The analytics which need not occur in real time can also be performed after an arbitrary delay.

In step one or more IP cameras can establish a direct connection to an IVS system. In step the IVS system can identify a raw video stream originating from an IP camera. In step the raw video stream from the IP camera can be received. In step the raw video stream can be decoded and processed. In step real time analytics can be performed on the video stream based on one or more processing criteria and or user profile settings. Criteria settings can include face recognition path tracking object tracking motion detection and the like. In step if analytics identifies an incident event has occurred the method can proceed to step else return to step . In step a programmatic action can be performed by the IVS system. Actions can include notification and or alerting appropriate entities altering a localized system state e.g. zooming panning a camera adjusting analytics and the like. In step the IVS system can optionally log the incident event in a system log user history log and the like.

The diagrams in illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

