---

title: Method and system of enhanced messaging
abstract: Methods and apparatus for providing rich media for enhancing user interaction with a messaging program. The rich media includes user perceptible content and content specific information. User perceptible content may include a small animated picture with an embedded sound file that messaging program users can send to each other during a messaging session. Content specific information may include a description of the perceptible content, context menu items including universal resource identifiers that link to information related to the content and information related to other messaging program content. In addition computer code is provided to allow communication between the rich media and the messaging program so that the messaging program and the rich media can interoperate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799758&OS=08799758&RS=08799758
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08799758
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081211
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 798 193 filed Mar. 11 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 487 441 entitled Method and System of Enhanced Messaging .

The invention is directed to computer messaging systems more particularly to a method and system of enhancing user interaction with such systems.

Networked computers can provide numerous helpful applications including allowing people in different locations to communicate with each other. The Internet a global computer network has become a popular means of communicating from across the room to across the world. The type of communication ranges from simple one on one text instant messaging to multiple member chat rooms. Some applications also include video and sound capabilities.

Early text messaging or instant messaging applications were limited to sending and receiving text. For various reasons including incorporating a mood to typed text people started using emoticons. Emoticons are drawings made from keyboard characters. For example placing a smiley face after some text would indicate a happy or playful tone to the text.

As innovations in Internet technology advanced additional features were added to messaging applications such as changing background colors text colors and font types. One popular feature added to instant messaging applications were enhanced emoticons. Using enhanced emoticons messaging users could send and receive smiley face pictures or icons instead of just text. These pictures can be animated and add entertainment value to a messaging program.

In the spirit of emoticons some messaging programs allowed users to send images of talking heads to each other. The heads would be animated and would play a sound clip. Talking heads became a way to advertise products such as a movie by using the image of characters in the movie.

A deficiency of talking heads and all computer images and icons is that while the image and the voice clip may help to sell a product the icons and images do not have content specific information that could link an Internet user to a variety of different types of media related to the image or icon. Currently in Windows applications right clicking on an image of movie A will bring up a context menu including menu items that can be selected to manipulate the image. Right clicking on an image of movie B will bring up a context menu with the same items. Accordingly a need exists for an improved method and system for network communications.

The invention as described and claimed herein satisfies this and other needs which will be apparent from the teachings herein. An embodiment of the invention includes methods and apparatus for providing rich media for enhancing user interaction with a messaging program. The messaging program provides access to a selection for example through a toolbar of user selectable rich media through a messaging program interface for example through a computer application window and or a graphical user interface GUI . The rich media comprises user perceptible content such as for example an audio video file i.e. digital data containing sound and or images or other user perceptible information and content specific information. Created messages that include rich media can be communicated to an intended recipient which may be for example another user of the messaging program. The rich media is received by the intended recipient for perception and in addition the intended recipient has access to the rich media. In an alternate embodiment rich media is assigned an identification tag. Messages that are sent between users of the messaging program include the identification tag of a particular rich media instead of the media itself. The rich media can be obtained by a user for example from a server or other storage device using the identification tag.

One example of rich media is an enhanced icon. Enhanced icons are small images that preferably can be animated and that include motion and sound. Enhanced icons can be implemented by way of non limiting example as flash vector animation files SWF embedded with a sound file such as an MP3 file. Since enhanced icons can be animated images they can represent anything from scenes of nature to characters in a movie. In addition through the use of the embedded sound file the scenes of nature can be set to for example classical music and or a character in the scene can be made to speak. For example an animated movie character could speak a line from the movie. Once a user receives an enhanced icon they may save the enhanced icon and send the enhanced icon to other users of the messaging program who in turn can save the enhanced icon and send it to other users. In this way enhanced icons can spread in a viral manner to many users of the messaging program making them an ideal marketing vehicle.

In addition in the described embodiments computer code is provided to allow communication between the rich media and the messaging program so that the rich media and the messaging program can interoperate. An example of how the computer code allows the rich media and the messaging program to interoperate is by giving the messaging program the ability to control the rich media that is playing at any given time. For example if a first rich media item is playing while a user sends or receives a second rich media item the computer code allows the messaging program to stop the playing of the first rich media item and start playing the second rich media item. In addition when a mouse pointer is placed over a particular item of rich media the computer code can allow the messaging program to display a caption spoken by the rich media and or display a description of the sounds played by the rich media. The caption and or the description may be included in the content specific information which can be part of the rich media.

The computer code also works with the messaging program to display a context menu when a rich media item is appropriately selected for example by left or right clicking on the rich media item. Through the computer code the messaging program can populate the context menu using one or more items of the content specific information that is part of the rich media. The content specific information may include a description of the rich media and or a transcription of the words spoken by the rich media context menu items including universal resource identifiers URI which link to related content on the Internet and information related to other messaging content. An exemplary URI is a universal resource locator URL . Content specific information allows different rich media to include different information. For example rich media items related to movies can include content specific information that are links to movie trailers while rich media items that are related to music may include content specific information that are links to music clips from a group s latest album.

A messaging program user may be a user of a messaging service that is operated by an Internet content provider. As part of the messaging service a user may log in to a messaging service once the user initiates the messaging program. This may be done by offering the user a log in interface or the log in process may be automatic. The messaging service can track the user s preferences and rich media selections and save the selections and preferences so that the user preferences and rich media selections are available to the user regardless of the computer from which the user accesses the messaging service. In addition the messaging service can track user statistics related to the usage of the rich media for various purposes including by way of non limiting example advertising marketing research and or customer service purposes. The messaging service can also allow a content provider to automatically update a user s rich media selection by adding new or recommended rich media or by removing expired rich media. The messaging program also allows a user of the messaging program to modify their rich media selection. For example the user may add remove and or reorder their rich media selection.

Other objects and features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawing figures. It is understood however that the drawings are designed solely for the purpose of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims.

There will now be shown and described in connection with the attached drawing figures several exemplary embodiments of a system and method of enhanced messaging.

With reference to there is shown an exemplary block diagram of a system implemented in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. System includes a network and four locations home work content provider location one and content provider location two each coupled to the network . In an embodiment of the invention the network is the Internet but in alternate embodiments the system may also be used over any network of computers including local internets intranets local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs etc. or with any combination of networks.

The enhanced messaging system can be used by a first user located at home and a second user located at work to communicate with each other. While the example illustrated in shows two users communicating between two separate locations the invention is not limited to the illustrated example. For example an alternative embodiment includes two users located at work communicating with a third user located at home or any other number of persons or locations the concepts methods and systems described herein being scalable.

The enhanced messaging system can be provided and supported by an Internet content provider which can have one or more locations such as content provider location one and content provider location two . illustrates two locations but a content provider is not limited in the number of locations it can utilize. Content provider location one includes server one which can be a messaging service server server two which can be a staging server and server three which can be a production server. Content provider location two includes server four which can be an additional production server. While a content provider may have separate servers that perform separate functions alternatively one or more servers may perform one or more functions each. In addition the content provider can place the servers in any location in any manner known or to become known in the art. Further properties of the servers are described later with reference to .

User one of includes a user and a network communication medium. The communication medium may be a computing device. illustrates an exemplary computing device computer . Computer comprises a display an input device a cursor control ROM main memory a processor and a communication interface coupled together by bus . The computer communicates with the network via the communication interface which may be implemented as by way of non limiting example a Network Interface card NIC . The main memory may be implemented as by way of non limiting example Random Access Memory RAM and or other dynamic memory storage device. Various input and output devices are provided as part of computer including by way of non limiting example a display for example cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD etc. an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse or trackball for example.

The computer also includes a data storage device which is coupled to the bus . The data storage device may be implemented as by way of non limiting example a magnetic disk drive and magnetic disk a CD ROM drive and CD ROM or other equivalent devices and data storage mediums. The storage device comprises computer code defining an operating system a browser program and a user side module which are described below in further detail. User side module includes media and network communication medium coupling module coupling module rich media tracking module environments and rich media . Rich media comprises user perceptible content and content specific information. While depicted as a computer the computing device may be any device that can utilize a messaging program such as by way of non limiting example a notebook computer personal digital assistant PDA cell phone and the like.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention and in the descriptions of exemplary methods and apparatus of the invention the user side module may be implemented as a messaging program . The messaging program can be a multi function application the can provide many features including an instant messaging function a chat room function an email function a calendar news and stock reports. The plurality of functions can be presented to the user through a plurality of overlapping application windows that can be accessed through an array of messaging program tabs each tab representing a different function. In alternate embodiments the messaging program can facilitate the transmission of any type of network message including and not limited to instant messages chat room messages message board entries and or email messages for example. The messaging program can be used as part of a messaging service supported by a content provider.

Rich media is comprised of user perceptible content and content specific information . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention and in the description of exemplary methods and apparatus of the invention rich media may be implemented as an enhanced icon . Enhanced icons include user perceptible content that can be implemented as by way of non limiting example audio clips represented by an image that can be animated. The user perceptible content can be associated with products or services. For example the image can be a representation of a character from a movie and the character can be made to speak a line from the movie. Users of the messaging program are given an enhanced icon interface such as for example a toolbar or menu that can be filled with a list of favorite enhanced icons. By selecting from the enhanced icon toolbar a messaging service user can include enhanced icons in the messages they send to other messaging program users thereby enhancing their conversations. For example the availability of rich media items incorporating popular movie characters speaking well known phrases can attract network messaging users to a particular content provider s service.

Additionally since the user perceptible content such as for example images can be representations of marketing partner media content such as for example movie characters TV characters video game characters music groups toys trademarks logos etc. the content provider can use enhanced icons as an advertising platform and charge marketing partners such as for example a movie studio for using marketing partner specific enhanced icons on the content provider s service. For example the content provider can charge marketing partners a flat fee for adding marketing partner specific enhanced icons to a messaging service and or the content provider can charge a marketing partner according to the number of times their enhanced icons have been used.

By implementing certain technical specifications the work of creating new enhanced icons may be done by an outside contractor and or a third party marketing partner. Some exemplary technical specifications comprise using a Flash vector animation file SWF with sound as an MP3 file including an enhanced icon title and caption optimizing the enhanced icon to be displayed at 48 48 pixels having a 50K file size limit and a ten second animation and sound limit with no looping. In this embodiment the user perceptible content and the content specific information are part of the same SWF. Therefore each enhanced icon is one file that can be easily stored and accessed. In an alternate embodiment the user perceptible content and the content specific information may be separate components from the SWF. The separate components may be associated with each other via XML that describes each of the components of an enhanced icon . In response to receiving XML describing an enhanced icon the messaging program can retrieve the separate components that make up the enhanced icon . Splitting an enhanced icon into separate components makes it easier to modify or upgrade an enhanced icon . For example modifying the audio and context menu items of an enhanced icon for different languages without the necessity to change the image file.

A resource administrator may be used to monitor new content received from an outside contractor and or a marketing partner and manage existing content. The new content is validated to make sure it meets the technical specifications and is rejected if the specification is not met. In alternate embodiments the resource administrator may be able to alter a non conforming enhanced icon so that it meets the technical specifications. The resource administrator may be implemented as a human operator or the resource administrator may be a computer program that is executed through for example a web interface. Marketing Partners can manage their content through the web interface. The resource administrator may be executed as part of a staging module for messaging service content.

The display of enhanced icon captions which are part of content specific information can be different depending on the audio of the enhanced icon . If the enhanced icon represents a person saying something the caption can be in quotes and italicized for example I love enhanced icons. If the enhanced icon caption describes a sound or action the caption is only italicized for example The Yale Fight Song. A messaging program may limit the size of an enhanced icon for bandwidth and storage conservation and or to allow faster load times Additionally if for example the enhanced icon is implemented as a SWF a Flash loader can be implemented to display something appropriate while an enhanced icon is loading.

Enhanced icons especially popular and well made enhanced icons can quickly spread to many users of a messaging service since a user can add any received enhanced icon to their toolbar and then send the enhanced icon to a third friend who may also save and use the enhanced icon . Thus a popular enhanced icon can rapidly spread a marketing partner s character or advertisement to many messaging service users. The additional exposure of well made and innovative enhanced icons encourages marketing partners to create better enhanced icons . The content provider meanwhile benefits from the advertising revenue and from the added value of creative and popular enhanced icons available only through their service. A content provider also has the option of putting a new or different enhanced icon into the enhanced icon toolbar of all or some of their messaging service users based on certain criteria such as demographic or historic data available about a user through the user s interaction with the service for example.

Furthermore enhanced icons can be used to provide additional advertising value through content specific information that is in one non limiting embodiment of the invention included as part of the rich media . Content specific information preferably comprises a short title of the enhanced icon a caption that describes the enhanced icon and or a caption that is a transcription of what the enhanced icon says an enhanced icon identifier ID or identifiers and a context menu array including menu items that are specific to the user perceptible content of the enhanced icon . For example an enhanced icon representing a movie character can include a context menu item that is a link to the movie s Website.

Some messaging service providers offer a messaging program function that loads user perceptible content such as for example graphics and interactive programs into the messaging program interface to enhance the messaging environment. For example a winter themed environment can change the history window to include animated falling snowflakes. In addition messaging service users in a messaging session with the winter environment loaded can work together to build a snowman. These environments can also be directed to a marketing partner s content for example a movie and thereby be used by a content provider as an advertising platform. A marketing partner can also have enhanced icons that are related to the same movie. In some embodiments there may be extra or bonus features when related enhanced icons and environments are used at the same time. Preferably any enhanced icon can be used with any loaded environment .

As mentioned above content specific information preferably includes a context menu array including menu items that are specific to the user perceptible content of the enhanced icon for example a context menu item that is a link to a movie s Website. Additionally an enhanced icon s context menu can include a command to load a related environment . Therefore if a messaging service user is interested in a product represented by an enhanced icon and the product owner also has a related environment the messaging service user can easily load the related environment through the context menu of the enhanced icon . The messaging program may also offer tabs that are dedicated and or related to the product. A context menu can include commands to load these dedicated and or related tabs. Enhanced icons therefore become a new and potentially powerful tool for publicizing a product or service and for directing customers to other network and other messaging service content that is related to a product or service.

User side module also includes a coupling module . Network communication medium coupling module may be implemented as computer code such as for example a Java and or JavaScript Application Programming Interface API and facilitates communication between the user side module and the rich media . When a messaging service user selects an enhanced icon for example by clicking on it a context menu described further below is displayed by the messaging program. Some or all of the context menu items may be obtained from the context menu array that is part of the content specific information . The communication of the context menu array from the enhanced icon to the messaging program is facilitated through the coupling module . Additionally the messaging program can populate a context menu with different menu items depending on the location of the enhanced icon within the messaging program . Therefore the coupling module determines the location of the enhanced icon and populates the context menu with the desired items.

Furthermore the coupling module allows the messaging program to control different aspects of the display of the enhanced icons . Messenger service users can set their enhanced icon display preferences and store their preferences with a messaging service provider so that their unique enhanced icon experience is available to them anywhere they have network access. Exemplary enhanced icon preferences include the enhanced icon interface state hidden displayed enable disable enhanced icons mute enhanced icons and display enhanced icon caption proximate to enhanced icon. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention some of the user preferences including enable disable enhanced icons and mute enhanced icons require communication between the messaging program and the enhanced icons . This communication is facilitated by the coupling module .

When enhanced icons are disabled the enhanced icon caption is preferably displayed in place of the enhanced icon . The messaging program retrieves the enhanced icon caption from the content specific information of an enhanced icon through the coupling module for display. When enhanced icons are muted the messaging program tells the enhanced icon to play without sound. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the messaging program also displays the enhanced icon caption when enhanced icons are muted.

Other aspects of the display of the enhanced icons can be set by the messaging service. For example the number of enhanced icons that are played at any given time can be limited to one. If a messaging service user sends or receives an enhanced icon while another enhanced icon is playing the messaging program through the coupling module can stop the playing of other enhanced icons and play the newly sent or received enhanced icon . Since enhanced icons can incorporate sounds and animation it is preferable to limit the number of enhanced icons that can play at any one time. Other functions such as checking whether the newly sent or received enhanced icon includes sound before stopping any other enhanced icon is also available to the messaging service. In a non limiting example when enhanced icons are implemented as a SWF an internal flash communication channel can be used to signal other enhanced icons to stop playing.

Tracking module can track the usage of enhanced icons . The usage information can be used by the content provider for many purposes such as for example to set advertisement payment structures and or to measure the popularity of their service. Preferably the messaging program can track at least the following information the number of unique users per day week and month who sent or received any enhanced icon the number of unique users per day week and month who sent or received a particular enhanced icon the average and the total number per day week and month of messages sent containing a particular enhanced icon the average and the total number per day week and month of messages sent containing any enhanced icon the average and the total number of messages sent from a high tiered messaging service user for example a messaging service user who pays for extra services to another high tiered messaging service user the average and the total number of messages sent from a high tiered messaging service user to a regular for example free messaging service user and the number of times a user selects a content specific menu item and links to content related to the user perceptible content of the enhanced icon. Other data gathered using the teachings herein is a matter of application specific design choice as is the use to which such data may be put. Statistical information gathered by the messaging program can preferably be transmitted periodically to the content provider. In an alternate embodiment statistical tracking may be gathered at a messaging service server operated by the content provider.

While coupling module tracking module environments and rich media are illustrated in as being part of user side module and user perceptible content and content specific information are illustrated as part of rich media in alternate embodiments coupling module tracking module environments enhanced media user perceptible content content specific information and enhanced media usage tracking module can be separate components stored on the data storage device or they can be located at a remote location and accessed by the user side module through communication interface . In addition while the modules of the computer are illustrated as separate components in alternate embodiments some or all of the modules can be combined as one module.

The computer may communicatively connect to the Internet via the communication interface over one or more transmission media including but not limited to coaxial cable copper wires and fiber optical cables. Communication between the computer and the Internet may also be via a wireless medium such as for example a wi fi or cellular interface. The communication interface facilitates two way communication between the computer and another electronic device or system for example a server computer or computers provided by a content provider .

In alternative embodiments computer may be a desktop or notebook computer personal digital assistant PDA hand held device or wireless phone with graphics capability or any other device using any communication methodology now known or hereafter developed that is capable of performing the functions as described herein.

User two also includes a user and a network communication medium. The network communication medium can also be a computer and may be similar to the computer of .

The server also includes a data storage device which is coupled to the bus . The data storage device includes an operating system a web page a controlling program a content manager a server side tracking module a messaging service module a staging module and a production module . Staging module includes resource administrator and production module includes rich media and environments .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention an Internet user can obtain the user side module which is for example implemented as a messaging program by using their browser to navigate to the Webpage hosted at the server . The webpage may contain information about the messaging program and links for downloading the messaging program for installation on the user s computer. In addition the Webpage may give users access to a controlling program for controlling the browser to download and install the messaging program . Messaging service usage tracking the made and stored by server side tracking module .

Messaging service operations and data are controlled and stored by messaging service module . Users of the messaging service maintain user accounts with the content provider. User accounts are used to identify users on the Internet and to store user preferences. Messaging service users use their messaging programs to log in to the messaging service in order to use the service and retrieve their preferences. The content manager manages the messaging service data. In an embodiment of the invention after a messaging service user logs in to the messaging service the content provider sends a content manager feed to the messaging service user comprising the user s preferences and other messaging service settings. Messaging service module controls the log in functions and other functions of the messaging service such as for example receiving and forwarding messages from messaging service users.

Staging module of allows the content provider to verify and store data about enhanced icons . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention data about the enhanced icon including how they appear in the messaging program is stored by staging module . A resource administrator which may be implemented as a human operator of a program or a fully automated program facilitates the managing and verification of enhanced icons .

In addition enhanced icons may be assigned an enhanced icon ID using the staging module . Enhanced icon IDs are used to organize and store the enhanced icons . Messages sent through the messaging service include an enhance icon ID rather than the enhanced icon itself to save bandwidth. The enhanced icon associated with the enhanced icon ID can then be obtained by the messaging program from a server through production module and cached locally. After an enhanced icon is validated and prepared using the staging module the enhanced icon is made available to messaging service users through production module . In an embodiment enhanced icons are hosted on a production server including production module .

While exemplary server includes a plurality of software modules as separate software components in alternate embodiments one or more of the modules may be combined and or separated to perform the functions of the combined and or separated modules. Additionally while exemplary server includes a plurality of modules in alternate embodiments the modules may be dispersed into separate servers in separate or similar locations. This si true for all software modules described herein. For example in system of server one may be implemented to act primarily as a messaging service server and include webpage controlling program content manager server side tracking module and messaging service module server two may be implemented as a staging server and include staging module server three may be implemented as a rich media server and include production module with rich media and server four may be implemented as an environments server and include production module with environments .

A first messaging service user user one can initiate an instant message session with a second messaging service user user two by opening an instant messaging IM graphical user interface GUI associated with user two and sending a message to user two through a messaging service server. User two s messaging program receives the message and opens an IM GUI to display the message. illustrates an exemplary diagram of an IM GUI that is displayed on user two s computer. The IM GUI displayed on user one s computer is similar but is displayed with user one s enhanced icon preferences. The terms used to describe the parts of IM GUI are not limited to an IM messaging program. In alternate embodiments of the messaging program such as for example a chat room messaging program may use the same terms and parts as IM GUI . The IM GUI is displayed in an application window . Application window comprises a window bar and a display area to display an application such as for example an IM GUI .

In this exemplary embodiment the title of the application window is user 1 because user two is participating in an instant messaging session with user one and IM GUI is associated with user one. A menu bar is displayed under the window bar and includes one or more menu categories including file edit view friend format and help. Below the menu bar is the IM GUI toolbar . IM GUI toolbar is comprised of buttons which include an icon and a button title and when selected by a messaging service user perform commonly used functions.

Under the IM GUI toolbar is the IM GUI history window . The history window includes a record of an instant message session between messaging program users. The history window displayed at user one and user two s computers are the substantially similar. The term history window is not limited to IM messaging applications. In alternate embodiments where the messaging program facilitates another type of Internet messaging such as for example a chat room a history window also displays a record of the chat room conversation. In the exemplary conversation of user two has sent enhanced icon six to user one. Enhanced icon six is displayed in the history window and is played at both user one and user two s IM GUI. History window also includes a scroll bar that allows the messaging service user to view parts of the session that have been pushed out of the history window due to the length of the session.

Below the history window is the enhanced icon interface which includes an enhanced icon caption area and an enhanced icon toolbar . When a user places a mouse pointer over an enhanced icon the mouse pointer changes into a hand pointer signaling to the user that there are click actions available and the words spoken by the enhanced icon or a description of the enhanced icon is displayed in the enhanced icon caption area . For example in a mouse pointer is placed over enhanced icon five and is therefore a hand pointer. The enhanced icon caption area displays what enhanced icon five would play if selected by a user. For example enhanced icon five says You re way behind. The enhanced icon caption is obtained from the content specific information of enhanced icon five through coupling module . In addition a ToolTip not shown stating Click once to preview this enhanced icon. Double click to send this enhanced icon. Right click to see more options for this enhanced icon. may be displayed. A ToolTip is a descriptive text box that appears when a mouse pointer is held over a tool button or other object.

Enhanced icon caption area also includes a browse all button . Selecting the browse all button displays a second application window including an enhanced icon dialog that allows the user to manipulate their enhanced icon toolbar . The enhanced icon dialog is described later in the application.

Below the enhanced icon caption area is the enhanced icon toolbar . The enhanced icon toolbar allows a messing service user to quickly preview and send their enhanced icons to other users. For example in the enhanced icon toolbar comprises enhanced icons one through six . The enhanced icon toolbar in this exemplary embodiment can show a maximum of six enhanced icons . Any additional enhanced icons in the enhanced icon toolbar may be viewed by pressing the scroll buttons and . A messaging service user can customize the enhanced icon toolbar by adding new enhanced icons reordering enhanced icons and or removing enhanced icons for example by using an enhanced icon dialog that is described later. The order of a messaging service user s enhanced icons and which enhanced icons the user added to their enhanced icon toolbar is stored on a content provider server so that when the user logs in on different machines the same enhanced messaging experience is available to the user.

When a messaging service user selects in a first manner for example single clicks an enhanced icon from the enhanced icon toolbar a preview of the enhanced icon is played in the enhanced icon toolbar . The enhanced icon plays its user perceptible content for example the enhanced icon plays a short animation accompanied by audio. In an embodiment of the invention the preview begins after a 1 second delay so as not to confuse a single click with a double click. In alternate embodiments the preview can begin immediately after the user single clicks an enhanced icon .

When a messaging service user selects in a second manner for example double clicks an enhanced icon from the enhanced icon toolbar the selected enhanced icon is sent to the messaging service user associated with the IM GUI. Enhanced icons are sent after they are selected from the enhanced icon toolbar as opposed to being placed in a message compose field in order to control the number of enhanced icons that can be sent in one message to prevent enhanced icon flooding. In alternate embodiments the enhanced icon is placed in a message compose field and the messaging service user is allowed to add extra text and or additional enhanced icons to their message. In addition alternate anti flooding techniques may be implemented such as for example only playing a first enhanced icon and or by controlling the number of enhanced icons a user can send in a given time period.

When a messaging service user selects in a third manner for example by left or right clicking an enhanced icon from the enhanced icon toolbar a first context menu not shown is displayed. An exemplary context menu for an enhanced icon located in the enhanced icon toolbar is described later with reference to an alternate embodiment of the IM GUI. The first context menu of the IM GUI is similar to the later described context menu. In accordance with the invention different context menus are displayed depending on the location of the enhanced icon within the messaging program . The context menu for an enhanced icon located in the enhanced icon toolbar can include the following menu items Preview this Enhanced Icon Send this Enhanced Icon one or more content specific enhanced icon menu items that are stored in the enhanced icon and is described in greater detail below and Find Similar Enhanced Icons. The context menu array is included as part of the content specific information of an enhanced icon . In addition the content specific information is obtained from the enhanced icon through coupling module for display in the context menu.

Selecting Preview this Enhanced Icon is the same as left clicking an enhanced icon once to play the enhanced icon in the enhanced icon toolbar selecting Send this Enhanced Icon is the same as double clicking the enhanced icon and selecting Find Similar Enhanced Icons opens the enhanced icon dialog to the same set and category as the selected enhanced icon to find other enhanced icon in the same set. The enhanced icon dialog enhanced icon sets and categories is described in further detail below.

The content provider or IM program provider or authorized other party can manage the presence absence organization or capabilities of an enhanced icon . For example invalid enhanced icons in the enhanced icon toolbar are preferably automatically removed. Invalid enhanced icons can include old enhanced icons that a content provider no longer wants to support enhanced icons with corrupted IDs and enhanced icons that are not approved by a content provider because for example they do not meet the content provider s specification or they were introduced by an unauthorized party. Information about invalid enhanced icons can be sent to messaging service users in a content manager feed from content manager .

Enhanced icon five includes a NEW banner . In accordance with the invention a content provider can periodically add new enhanced icons to a messaging service user s enhanced icon toolbar for example through a content manager feed. A new enhanced icon could then if desired appear with a NEW indicator over it or as a ToolTip that disappears after a user interacts with the enhanced icon for example by previewing or sending the enhanced icon . The new enhanced icon is automatically inserted into the enhanced icon toolbar so that it is visible in the enhanced icon toolbar and retains that position until the messaging service user modifies their enhanced icon toolbar .

Below the enhanced icon interface is a messaging toolbar . Messaging toolbar includes buttons to manipulate the message text. Messaging toolbar also includes buttons to enable or disable additional functions of the messaging program . For example emoticon button enables or disables emoticons and enhanced icon button hides or displays the enhanced icon interface . When a messaging service user closes the IM GUI the state of the enhanced icon interface i.e. hidden or displayed is recorded so that the next time the IM GUI is opened the messaging program can restore the enhanced icon interface to the last used state. In addition a messaging service user can disable enhanced icons in the messaging program preferences so that they only see enhanced icon captions. In an embodiment of the invention if a messaging program user disables enhanced icons and subsequently receives an enhanced icon only the enhanced icon caption is displayed. When enhanced icons are disabled the user in one non limiting embodiment cannot display the enhanced icon interface . Therefore if a user selects enhanced icon button while enhanced icons are disabled the messaging program asks the user if they want to enable enhanced icons .

Below the messaging toolbar is a message compose field . Message compose field is where a messaging service user composes the message that they will send to the messaging service user associated with the IM GUI . The messaging service user can send a completed message by pressing the send button .

Finally under the message compose field is the messaging program status bar . The status bar tells the messaging service user the status of the messaging program . For example in the status bar informs the user of the date and time of the last received message.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention different context menu items are be displayed in a context menu depending on the location of the enhanced icon in the messaging program . A JavaScript API is described as exemplary coupling module that communicates between the messaging program and the enhanced icons to access content specific information and so that the messaging program knows when an enhanced icon has been selected and where the enhanced icon is located when it was selected so that the proper context menu items are displayed according to the location of the enhanced icon using content specific information .

The next three context menu items are content specific enhanced icon menu items. These menu items include information that is specific to the user perceptible content of the enhanced icon . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the content specific information in the exemplary form of menu items is stored in the enhanced icon as for example an array of menu items. In alternate embodiments the menu items may be obtained from a remote location over the computer network . If enhanced icon six was a character in a movie the content specific enhanced icon menu items can comprise a link to the movie s trailer a link to the movie s Website and a menu item that loads an environment that is related to the movie. Each menu item in the array is comprised of a display string a URI Environment ID or Messaging program Tab ID and a command. Some of the commands are comprised of opening a browser to a URI loading a specific environment and adding and or showing a messaging program Tab.

In this way enhanced icons become an effective means for advertising. Using enhanced icons a marketing partner can spread their user perceptible content in a viral like manner to users of the messaging program and through the content specific context menu items the marketing partner can link the messaging program users to additional Internet media such as for example videos and Web pages related to their products.

Returning to the description of context menu if a user selects Add to my Enhanced Icon Toolbar the enhanced icon six is added to the user s enhanced toolbar . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention selecting Add to my Enhanced Icon Toolbar adds enhanced icon six to the front of the enhanced icon toolbar . If enhanced icon six is already in the enhanced icon toolbar the enhanced icon is moved to the front of the enhanced icon toolbar . If the enhanced icon toolbar is hidden selecting Add to my Enhanced Icon Toolbar displays the enhanced icon toolbar and adds the selected enhanced icon .

Selecting Find Similar Enhanced Icons brings up an enhanced icon dialog to the same set and category as the selected enhanced icon to find other enhanced icons in the same set. The enhanced icon dialog enhanced icon categories and set are described in further detail later in the application. In an alternate embodiment a Show more movie enhanced icons menu item not shown may be displayed in place or in addition to the Find Similar Enhanced Icons menu item. Selecting the Show more movie enhanced icons loads the entire movie enhanced icon set into the enhanced icon toolbar .

Selecting Mute Enhanced Icons mutes all enhanced icons at the user s IM GUI . In alternate embodiments checking the mute enhanced icons menu item only mutes the enhanced icon that is currently selected. Un selecting the Mute Enhanced Icons menu item restores sound to the enhanced icons . illustrates the IM GUI displaying an enhanced icon six while enhanced icons are muted. Enhanced icon six still animates but no sound is played. In addition the transcription of the words spoken by enhanced icon six in this example I Love Enhanced Icons is obtained from the content specific information of enhanced icon six through coupling module and displayed proximate to the enhanced icon six . Furthermore the user of the messaging program can set their preferences so that the caption is not displayed while enhanced icons are in the muted state and so that the caption is displayed while enhanced icon audio is turned on.

In accordance with the invention a messaging service user can disable enhanced icons as part of their messaging program preferences. illustrates the IM GUI displaying enhanced icon six with enhanced icons disabled. In this example enhanced icon six is not shown or heard. The enhanced icon caption i.e. the description of the enhanced icon or a transcription of the words spoken by the enhanced icon is obtained from the content specific information of enhanced icon six through coupling module and displayed proximate to the user name. In addition if a messaging service user is using a messaging program that is not compatible with enhanced icons in an embodiment of the invention the description of the enhanced icon or a transcription of the words spoken by the enhanced icon is displayed in place of the enhanced icon as shown in .

In an alternate embodiment of context menu one or more of the content specific context menu items may be a media item. The media item may be for example an advertisement a picture a video an enhanced icon text etc. The media item may also comprise any combination of media items for example context menu item comprises text and an image. The media item can be stored at a server and retrieved by the messaging program when the context menu is called. In alternate embodiments the media item may be part of the content specific information of the enhanced icon and accessed by the messaging program via the coupling module . In addition context menu items may be comprised of one or more portions each portion being comprised of any combination of media items. Different portions of a context menu item may be stored on a server and or be included as part of the content specific information of the enhanced icon . When a context menu is called the messaging program retrieves the different portions of the context menu items from their appropriate locations. Standard content menu items may also be divided into portion and implemented as media items.

The enhanced icon dialog allows messaging service users to browse through a selection of enhanced icons and manage the appearance of the enhanced icons in their enhanced icon toolbar . In accordance with an embodiment of the invention enhanced icons are grouped in sets of at least one. Each set has a theme such as for example characters saying lines from a movie. In some embodiments each enhanced icon in a set is visually unique so that a user can visually discern different enhanced icons without playing them. Sets are placed in Categories like Movies Expressions Games etc. Therefore a movie category may include enhanced icon sets of movie one liners and soundtrack samples while an expressions category may include enhanced icon sets of flirts insults hellos and goodbyes and a games category includes enhanced icon sets of taunts wins loses and invites. Enhanced icons are not restricted to a single set. Some enhanced icons may appear in two different sets.

Enhanced icon dialog includes an instruction field a caption area a category selector a set selector an enhanced icon in a set display area and an enhanced icon toolbar preview not shown . The instruction field gives a messaging service user a description of how to use the enhanced icon dialog . Below the instruction field is an enhanced icon caption area . When a user places a mouse pointer over an enhanced icon displayed in the enhanced icon dialog a description of the enhanced icon or a transcription of the words spoken by the enhanced icon is previewed in the caption area .

Below the caption area are displayed the category selector the set selector and the enhanced icon in a set display area . A selection of enhanced icons enhanced icon ten through fifteen that a user may choose to add to their enhanced icon toolbar is displayed in the enhanced icon in a set display area . If more than six enhanced icons are in a set the enhanced icon in a set display area can be scrolled using scroll bar . In alternate embodiments the enhanced icons can be scaled to fit the display area . In the example of the enhanced icon dialog is currently displaying the Movie category. A user can change the category by selecting the drop down menu button in the category selector . When a user selects drop down menu button a drop down menu appears including additional categories. The categories may include music expressions games etc. Each category includes one or more sets. The available enhanced icon categories and sets may be sent to the messaging program in a feed from the content manager when the enhanced icon dialog is displayed.

In the example of the Movie category has two sets one liners and soundtrack clips. Each set includes at least one related enhanced icon . For example in the enhanced icons enhanced icon ten through fifteen are characters speaking a line from a movie. In alternate embodiments there may be a minimum of six enhanced icons per set and no maximum. A user can preview the enhanced icons for example by clicking on them once and the user may add an enhanced icon to their enhanced icon toolbar by for example double clicking on a desired enhanced icon .

Although not shown in a copy of the user s enhanced icon toolbar is displayed in the enhanced icon dialog . The user can manipulate this copy of the enhanced icon toolbar by for example adding reordering or removing enhanced icons . This may be implemented using a drag and drop technique and or by buttons for adding removing moving an enhanced icon up the list and moving an enhanced icon down the list. Adding an enhanced icon to the enhanced icon toolbar places the enhanced icon at the front of the enhanced icon toolbar . If the enhanced icon is already in the enhanced icon toolbar then it is moved to the front of the enhanced icon toolbar .

When a user is finished updating their enhanced icon toolbar they may select the finish button . Selecting the finish button dismisses the enhanced icon dialog and the enhanced icon toolbar is updated with the changes. In addition in accordance with an embodiment of the invention when the messaging program is used with a messaging service provided by an internet content provider the change to the enhanced icon toolbar are saved at a server. Saving the changes at a server allows a user of a messaging service to access their preferred settings at any computer.

Depending on the type of the message server one performs a different function. For example if server one receives a message including a request for log in processing proceeds from step to step where server one through messaging service module logs in the user who sent the request. Then in step server one via content manager transmits a content manager feed to the user. The content manager feed includes data used by the messaging program data such as for example preferences for different messaging program functions. Following step processing proceeds to step where server one records user statistics through tracking module . Then processing proceeds from step to step where the method ends and server one returns to monitoring for messages from network users.

Returning to step if server one determines that the type of the message received is a forward request and an instant message processing proceeds from step to step . In step server one transmits the received message to its intended recipient via messaging service module . Following step processing proceeds to step where server one records user statistics using server side tracking module . Then processing proceeds from step to step where the method ends and server one returns to monitoring for messages from network users.

Returning to step if server one determines that the type of the message received is a request for an enhanced icon processing proceeds from step to step . In an embodiment of the invention the request for an enhanced icon comprises an enhanced icon identifier ID . In step server one through messaging service module uses the enhanced icon identifier to retrieve the desired enhanced icon for example from production server four . Then in step server one through messaging service module transmits the enhanced icon to the user who requested the enhanced icon . In an alternate embodiment server one can transmit a network identifier such as for example a URI or a URL associated with the enhanced icon to the user who requested the enhanced icon . The user can then use the URI to retrieve the enhanced icon .

Following step in step the content provider tracks the usage of rich media implemented for purposes of method as enhanced icons via server side tracking module . This tracking information can be used by the content provider to sell advertisements and to measure the popularity of their service. In addition statistical tracking can also be performed by the messaging program via tracking module . Statistical information gathered at the messaging program can be transmitted periodically to the content provider. Following step processing proceeds to step where the method ends and server one returns to monitoring for messages from network users.

Returning to step if server one determines that the type of message received is a user preference change request processing proceeds from step to step . In step server one through messaging service module records the user preferences so they available to the user the next time the user signs on. User preferences are stored at server one so that a messaging service user can obtain their preferences at any computer that has a connection to the content provider. When the user logs on to their account the messaging program receives the user s preferences in a content manager feed and sets the messaging program s parameters to meet the preferences. Following step processing proceeds to step where server one records user statistics through server side tracking module . Then processing proceeds from step to step where the method ends and server one returns to monitoring for messages from network users.

Returning to step if the server determines that the type of message received is a request for log off processing proceeds to step where server one through messaging service module logs the user out of the messaging service. Following step processing proceeds to step where server one records user statistics through server side tracking module . Then processing proceeds from step to step where the method ends and server one returns to monitoring for messages from network users.

Following step processing proceeds to step where the user side module receives user information for example through a content manager feed. This user information comprises the messaging service user s preferences for the messaging service and in particular the user s preferences for enhanced icons . Enhanced icon preferences include the enhanced icon interface state hidden displayed enable disable enhanced icons mute enhanced icons and display enhanced icon caption proximate to enhanced icon. User content is managed in step .

In the exemplary non limiting embodiment described in the messaging program is a program that includes instant messaging and or chat room messaging. In alternate embodiments the messaging program may also be an e mail program a message board program or any program that computer network users use to communicate with each other.

Proceeding from step to step the messaging program receives an IM GUI display request. The messaging program receives an IM GUI display request when the messaging service user initiates an IM GUI to send a message to another messaging service user and the messaging program also receives an IM GUI display request when the messaging program receives a message from another user.

Following step processing proceeds to step where the messaging program determines the enhanced icon interface state i.e. displayed or hidden . The user s preferences which could be received in a content manager feed from content manager records the previous state of the enhanced icon interface so that when the user opens an IM GUI the state of the enhanced icon interface is the same as it was the last time an IM GUI was closed.

Processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program removes any invalid enhanced icons and then to step where the messaging program adds new enhanced icons . The content manager feed includes the new enhanced icons and identifies invalid enhanced icons . Then method proceeds from step to step . In step the messaging program displays an IM GUI incorporating the preferences determined in the previous steps.

Following step processing proceeds to step where the messaging program monitors for events. When an event is received processing proceeds to step where the received event is executed. Possible events include sending an enhanced icon displaying an enhanced icon displaying a context menu executing an enhanced icon context menu item selection and initiating an enhance icon dialog. These events are described later in the application. When a messaging service user is finished with a messaging session with another messaging service user the messaging service users closes the IM GUI. In step the messaging program receives an IM GUI close request. Then in step the messaging program closes the IM GUI. Following step processing proceeds to step where the method ends for example with messaging service user logging out and closing the messaging program .

One of the events that may be executed in step of user side method is to display an enhanced icon . A messaging program receives an indicator to display an enhanced icon in a number of different situations including displaying an enhanced icon in a history window after a messaging service user sends an enhanced icon and displaying an enhanced icon in a history window after a messaging service user receives an enhanced icon . illustrates an exemplary enhanced icon display method . Enhanced icon display method starts in step for example with the user side module implemented as a messaging program receiving an indicator to display an enhanced icon .

Processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program determines if enhanced icons are enabled and or if enhanced icons are even capable on the messaging program . Older version of a messaging program that are still compatible with the messaging service may not be able to display enhanced icons . Therefore if enhanced icons are disabled in an enhanced icon capable messaging program and or if a messaging service user is using a messaging program that is not enhanced icons capable processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program displays the enhanced icon caption text instead of the enhanced icon . A messaging program that is capable of displaying enhanced icons retrieves the enhanced icon caption which is stored in the enhanced icon from the content specific information of the enhanced icon through the coupling module . In an embodiment of the invention a messaging service message that includes an enhanced icon additionally includes as part of the message the text of the enhanced icon s caption. Messaging programs that are not capable of displaying enhanced icons can ignore the enhanced icon and display the text of the enhanced icon caption that is included in the message. Following step method proceeds to return step and the method returns for example to monitoring step of user side method .

Returning to step of enhanced icon display method if enhanced icons are enabled processing proceeds directly from step to step where the messaging program determines if the enhanced icon is valid. For example an enhanced icon would be invalid if it was expired or if it was a foreign enhanced icon not approved by a content provider. If the enhanced icon is not valid processing proceeds from step to step where the user who sent the enhanced icon is shown an error message. The error message can also be delivered to the intended recipient of the enhanced icon . Then method returns in step for example to monitoring step of user side method .

Returning to step if the enhanced icon is valid processing proceeds from step to step . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment enhanced icons are assigned identifiers IDs . Enhanced icon IDs are sent between messaging service users instead of the enhanced icon itself to save bandwidth. A messaging service user can obtain an enhanced icon associated with an enhanced icon ID from the content provider. In order to save time and more bandwidth enhanced icons are cached at a user s computer. Therefore in step the messaging program determines if the enhanced icon is stored locally. If the enhanced icon is not stored locally processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program obtains the enhanced icon . The enhanced icon may be stored at a production server for example server three at content provider location . After obtaining the enhanced icon processing proceeds to step .

Returning to step if the enhanced icon is available locally processing proceeds directly to step where the messaging program checks the user s preferences to determine if enhanced icons are muted. If enhanced icons are not muted processing proceeds from step to step . At step the messaging program checks the user s preferences to determine if enhanced icon captions are enabled. If captions are enabled processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program displays the enhanced icon in the history window with the enhanced icon s caption obtained from the content specific information of the enhanced icon through coupling module . Returning to step if enhanced icon captions are not enabled processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program displays the enhanced icon in the history window .

Processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program with the help of coupling module determines if any other enhanced icons are playing. If another enhanced icon is playing processing proceeds from step to step where any other enhanced icon that is playing is stopped. Returning to step if no other enhanced icon is playing processing proceeds from step to step where the enhanced icon is played with sound. Then method returns in step for example to step of user side method .

A messaging program may want to control the number of enhanced icons that play at any given time for security reasons. Malicious users may send more than one enhanced icon to try and disrupt the service or decrease the enjoyment of the service by other messaging program users. Therefore in this exemplary embodiment sending an enhanced icon automatically creates an IM message including the enhanced icon and sends the IM message to an intended recipient. In alternate embodiments a user may first preview the enhanced icon they wish to send in the message compose field before they send the message.

Returning to step if enhanced icons are muted processing proceeds from step to step . In step the messaging program displays the enhanced icon in the history window with the enhanced icon caption. Then processing proceeds to step where the messaging program determines if any other enhanced icons are playing with the help of coupling module . If other enhanced icons are playing processing proceeds to step where the other enhanced icons are stopped. Then processing proceeds to step . Returning to step if no other enhanced icon is playing processing proceeds directly to step where the selected enhanced icon is played without sound. Enhanced icon send method returns in step for example to step of user side method .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention enhanced icons include content specific information . For example the content specific information can include an array of context menu items that are displayed when a user initiates a context menu for an enhanced icon . While the content specific menus below are described in the context of an enhanced icon content specific information for context menus can be stored in any media available on the Internet that can store information for example avatars of a chat room.

Processing of method proceeds to step where the messaging program obtains content specific context menu items which may be includes as part of content specific information from the selected enhanced icon through the coupling module . The messaging program populates the context menu with the content specific context menu items retrieved from the enhanced icon . This relationship allows a content provider to populate enhanced icon context menus with links to additional media related to the user perceptible content of the enhanced icon . For example an enhanced icon depicting a movie character can have context menu items that link to the movie s Website. This interrelationship between different media makes enhanced icons an effective advertising tool. In addition the messaging program can also populate the context menu with regular content menu items that a user selects to control the enhanced icon such as Play Enhanced Icon and Mute Enhanced Icons. These regular context menu items are preferably not related to the user perceptible content of the enhanced icon therefore they can be stored by the messaging program for display.

Content specific context menu items are stored as part of the enhanced icon as content specific information and are retrieved by the messaging program when a context menu is displayed. In alternate embodiments the content specific information may be retrieved at a remote location or may be retrieved at an earlier time and stored locally at the computer. Following step in step the messaging program displays a context menu.

If a user clicks somewhere outside the menu processing proceeds from step to step where the context menu is dismissed and no function is performed. After the context menu is dismissed processing of method returns in step for example to monitoring step of user side method . Returning to step if a user selects a context menu item processing proceeds from step to step . In step the messaging program dismisses the context menu.

Then processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program examines the menu item that was selected for processing. illustrates three exemplary content specific context menu items but in alternate embodiments there may be more or less content specific context items. In addition processing of regular context menu items not shown may also occur.

If the selected menu item is a command to view media such as for example a movie trailer processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program initiates a media display medium such as for example a video player. Other exemplary non limiting media include music pictures etc. Processing proceeds from step to step where the media display medium displays the media for perception by the messaging service user. The media can be located by a network identifier included as part of content specific information and can be obtained through the coupling module with the context menu array. Then processing of method returns in step for example to step of user side method .

Returning to step if the user selects a context menu item with a command to visit a universal resource identifier URI processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program initiates a URI display medium for example a Web browser . Then processing proceeds from step to step where the URI display medium displays the information located at the URI. The URI may be a universal resource locator URL to a particular movie s Web page which is related to the enhanced icon . The URI can be included as part of content specific information and can be obtained through the coupling module with the context menu array. Then processing of method returns in step for example to step of user side method .

Returning to step if the user selects a context menu item with a command to load another messaging service function that is related to the enhanced icon for example an enhanced messaging environment function processing proceeds from step to step . Enhanced messaging environment are created by loading enhanced Internet media such as for example animated pictures and or user interactive media into a messaging program GUI. This Internet media may be related to the user perceptible content represented by the enhanced icon . Thereby allowing a content provider to offer many different types of advertising media and to link those different types of media together. The environments can also be assigned identifier IDs and these environment IDs can be included as part of content specific information that can be obtained through the coupling module with the context menu array.

In step the messaging program determines if the selected enhanced environment is stored on the present computer. If a selected enhanced environment is not stored on the present computer processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program downloads the enhanced environment . Then processing proceeds from step to step where the enhanced environment is loaded. Returning to step if the enhanced environment is stored locally on the computer processing proceeds directly from step to step where the enhanced environment is loaded. Then method returns in step for example to monitoring step of user side method .

A messaging service user can modify their enhanced icon favorites toolbar by selecting the Browse All button of IM GUI or by selecting Find Similar Enhanced Icons in a context menu. Either of those selections indicates to the messaging program to display an enhanced icon dialog such as for example the enhanced icon dialog of . illustrates an exemplary enhanced icon dialog method . Processing of enhanced icon dialog method begins in step for example with the messaging program receiving an indicator to display an enhanced icon dialog. Then processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program receives enhanced icon dialog display information for example through a feed from the content manager . Following step processing proceeds to step where the messaging program determines a category and a set to display in the dialog window.

When the messaging service user accesses the enhanced icon dialog by selecting the Browse All button a default category and set are displayed for example the default category and set may be last category and set that was displayed by the user or the newest category and set of enhanced icons that are available. If the enhanced icon dialog was initiated by selecting the Find Similar Enhanced Icons items in a context menu then the messaging program loads an enhanced icon category and set that is similar to the enhanced icon that was selected.

Processing from step to step where the messaging program displays the enhanced icon dialog with the determined category and set. As described earlier and referring to a user may view available enhanced icons by navigating the different categories and sets. By default when a new category of enhanced icons is selected the first set of enhanced icons in the category is be loaded.

Following step processing proceeds to step where the messaging program monitors for user events. Possible events include selecting a new category selecting a new set adding a new enhanced icon to an enhanced icon bar removing an enhanced icon from an enhanced icon bar reordering the enhanced icons in an enhanced icon toolbar previewing enhanced icons displaying enhanced icon context menu and executing commands selected from the context menu. Then in step the selected event is executed.

When the messaging service user is finished modifying their enhanced icon toolbar they can dismiss the enhanced icon dialog by for example selecting the Finished button . When the Finished button is selected processing of method proceeds from step to step where the messaging program receives an enhanced icons dialog finished indication. Then processing proceeds from step to step where the messaging program closes the enhanced icon dialog. Then in step the messaging program loads the changes made to the enhanced icon toolbar . Method then returns in step for example to monitoring step of user side method . In alternate embodiments a messaging service may include parental controls to allow parents to control the access their children have to certain enhanced icons .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the messaging service can offer enhanced icons as a premium service offered to for example paying messaging service users rather than to free messaging service users. In order to implement this limited access scheme the enhanced icon feature for a particular messaging service user is placed in one of four provisioning states restricted plus restricted plus enabled and open.

Restricted means that enhanced icons are not available to any messaging service user. The users cannot find select send or receive enhanced icons . Plus restricted means that the user is a free messaging service user and that enhanced icons are available but the user has not subscribed to the feature. In this state the user may receive enhanced icons but cannot find select or send enhanced icons . Plus enabled means that the user is a premium messaging service user and that enhanced icons are available. In this state the user may find select send and receive enhanced icons. Open means that enhanced icons are not part of a premium service and that the feature is available for all users. Provisioning state information is delivered during login. The messaging program receives the provisioning state from the content provider servers.

The enhanced icon interface of IM GUI operates in accordance with an alternate embodiment of the invention. A messaging service provider is not limited to one embodiment of the invention. The messaging service provider can offer both embodiments and or a combination of different aspects of the embodiments. The enhanced icon interface is comprised of an enhanced icon caption area and an enhanced icon toolbar .

Instead of displaying a messaging service user s favorite enhanced icons the enhanced icon toolbar displays all the enhanced icons of a selected set. For example the enhanced icon toolbar includes a set of one liners from a movie i.e. enhanced icons ten through fifteen . The name of the set is displayed in enhanced icon caption area . In addition when a pointer is placed over a particular enhanced icon the enhanced icon caption which is included as part of content specific information of the particular enhanced icon is obtained by the coupling module and displayed in the enhanced icon caption area .

The enhanced icon caption area also includes a button labeled More Enhanced Icons that a messaging service user can select to change the set displayed in their enhanced icon toolbar . illustrates exemplary menus that can be displayed by a user to select an enhanced icon set for their enhanced icon toolbar . In one exemplary non limiting embodiment the menus are populated using information received in a feed from the messaging service provider.

When a user selects the More enhanced icons button a first menu is displayed. The first menu includes promotional sets one and two and may include more promotional sets. These promotional sets may be used by the messaging service provider to prominently display for example newly added sets and or preferred marketing partner sets. The promotional sets can display an image for example an advertisement. Since the menu is populated with information from a feed the displayed promotional sets can be controlled by the messaging service provider. The first menu also includes an item to display recently used enhanced icons in the enhanced icon toolbar for example the last thirty enhanced icons used by a particular messaging service user.

Some menu items display submenus. These menu items are distinguished for example by an arrow at the end of the menu item. When the See all enhanced icons menu item of menu is selected a second menu is displayed. This menu includes enhanced icon categories represented by a folder and enhanced icon sets represent by a speaker . Selecting an enhanced icon set dismisses the menus and loads the selected set of enhanced icons in the enhanced icon toolbar . Selecting an enhanced icon category displays a third menu that includes enhanced icon sets comprising the selected category. A user can select one of these enhanced icon sets to load in their enhanced icon toolbar .

Following step processing proceeds to step where the messaging program uses the received enhanced icon menu display information to display an enhanced icon menu. Then in step the messaging program monitors for events from the user. These events can include selecting an enhanced icon set or displaying another menu. The selected events are executed in step .

Following step processing proceeds to step where the messaging program closes the enhanced icon menu . Then in step the messaging program loads the selected set into the enhanced icon toolbar . Method then returns in step for example to monitoring step of user side method .

While the embodiment above describes enhanced icons used with an IM program enhanced icons can be used with any computer network communication medium such as for example chat rooms email and message boards. In addition while the content specific context menu items are described in conjunction with enhanced icons the content specific context menu items are not limited to enhanced icons . Content specific context menu items can be implemented with any Internet media. While there have been shown and described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of the disclosed invention may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

