---

title: Coverage at a glance
abstract: A graphical representation is provided that displays a user's insurance coverage. Via the graphical representation, the user may request information about various aspects of the coverage and/or may request to chat or speak with a representative that specializes in a particular coverage area. The graphical representation may show how the user's insurance coverage compares to population groups and medians. A user may adjust the coverage on the graphical representation and be provided with a revised premium amount. The user may select this coverage to be implemented and the user's policy may be appropriately revised.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645169&OS=08645169&RS=08645169
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08645169
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
This application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 103 499 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 103 521 each filed on Apr. 15 2008 and each entitled Coverage At A Glance. 

Much of the language and terminology common to insurance policy documentation is necessary for legal purposes but is difficult for many people to understand. Many people believe an insurance policy they had purchased has adequate coverage or own a policy that once provided adequate coverage only to find out in time of peril that the policy s coverage is in fact not adequate. This is due in part to the ambiguous nature of insurance policy coverage documentation which leaves people unaware of their risk potential and unsure about the boundaries of their insurance policies.

A graphical representation is provided that displays a user s insurance coverage. Via the graphical representation the user may request information about various aspects of the coverage and or may request to chat or speak with a representative that specializes in a particular coverage area.

In an implementation the graphical representation may show how the user s insurance coverage compares to population groups and medians. The user or an institution system may select the groups and or medians that the user s insurance coverage is to be compared against.

In an implementation a user may adjust the coverage on the graphical representation and be provided with a revised premium amount. The user may select this coverage to be implemented and the user s policy may be appropriately revised.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A coverage generator may generate coverage information pertaining to the user and population groups and or medians described further herein. The coverage generator may receive information from the coverage processor as well as from information storage and user storage for example. The coverage generator may generate a graphical representation or information for the graphical representation of coverage information that is provided to a user computing device . As described further herein a graphical representation of a user s insurance policy coverage may be provided to a user. In an implementation the provided graphical representation may illustrate the upper and lower coverage boundary s limits the per user limit if applicable the per accident coverage limit if applicable the recommended coverage level for the user based on relevant user information and the user s current coverage limit for example.

Information storage may contain information pertaining to users who have insurance policies or other types of products or accounts hosted by the institution system data related to the policies products and accounts and population and demographic data pertaining to the users for example. Information storage may include data that may be used in the generation of the graphical representation of coverage information . User storage may contain information directed to users such as name address marital status account information etc. for example.

The graphical representation of coverage information may be provided via a website to a user computing device associated with a user . For purposes of clarity and simplicity an applicant for an insurance policy or a current holder of an insurance policy may be referred to herein as a user. Thus any reference to a user herein also includes any type of applicant institution member or prospective member or the like.

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only by a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The user may provide data to the institution system via a user computing device . The user computing device may be a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example or any type of personal computer PC . The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network . It is contemplated that the network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS and the like. An example user computing device is described with respect to .

As described further herein one of the service representatives associated with the institution system may confer with a user about coverage information. Such a conference may be via a chat session or a telephone for example. Each service representative may be specialized to a particular coverage area so the user may speak with a specialist regarding any questions the user has regarding coverage information. Although only two service representatives are shown in it is contemplated that any number of service representatives may be associated with the institution system .

In an implementation a user interface module may receive content from the coverage generator and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to a user computing device . The page s of content may be directed to a graphical representation of coverage information and may be provided to a user computing device via the website associated with the institution system . It will be appreciated that in an embodiment a service representative of the institution may access the user interface module or the underlying graphical representation of coverage information to assist the user with any questions the user may have.

When the user accesses the website using a web browser on a user computing device they may be presented with information pertaining to an insurance policy that they are considering purchasing or an insurance policy that they already have purchased via the page s of content . The information may be in a graphical representation form further described with respect to for example. The user may enter information into the graphical representation via a web browser on a user computing device .

The content may be personalized to the user using information retrieved from the user storage for example. Personalization may include presentation of the page s of content and or functionality of the page s of content . For example a graphical representation displayed on the page s of content may be pre filled with some information pertaining to the user such as name address policy number etc. In an implementation personalization may be directed to an automobile insurance policy and may provide specific information on the user s automobiles or aspects of the user s coverage. Personalization is not limited to automobile insurance policies and may be directed to any type of data information product service advertisement etc.

As described further herein in an implementation the user may modify their insurance policy online via the graphical representation. The user may be provided with one or more documents online via the website or via email for example that they can electronically sign. Any known electronic signature technique may be may used. The user may electronically sign the one or more documents and provide them electronically to the institution system via email or the website for example.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . A user computing device may allow the user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user groups of users and or insurance policies may be stored in storage or other storage for example.

Example software modules may include modules for sending and receiving information between the institution system and the user requesting and retrieving information from storage information storage and user storage processing insurance information requests and generating graphical representations of coverage information described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At operation a user may log into a website associated with the institution system may be identified and authenticated using any known techniques and may request insurance information. At operation information pertaining to the user and the user s policy and coverage information may be retrieved from storage. At operation median coverage information pertaining to the type of policy that the user has may be retrieved and or generated based on information that may be retrieved from storage. The median coverage information comprises information that is directed to the median coverage that policy holders of the institution have. This information may be previously determined and stored in storage or may be computed or otherwise generated on the fly in real time when requested. In an implementation the user may not currently have a policy and as such user s policy and coverage information may not be retrieved but median coverage may still be retrieved and or generated for display on the graphical representation.

At operation a graphical representation of coverage information may be generated based on the retrieved information. The graphical representation is provided to the user via a computing device. An example graphical representation is described with respect to .

At operation the graphical representation may be provided to the user. The user may view the graphical representation. The user may request or select information related to an aspect of the graphical representation such as information directed to one of the coverage areas or information directed to a premium at operation . The user may make a selection by selecting a link displayed on the graphical representation highlighting an area of the graphical representation and or clicking on an area of the graphical representation for example. The information that the user may select may then be provided to the user via a website email and or a representative of the institution for example at operation .

Obtaining information may include retrieving linked documents activating a QuickTime Windows Media or other video document instancing an instant message or chat interface with a representative or instancing a live person to person video teleconference for example. Additionally the user may access exemplary policy representations based on text descriptions of example user scenarios. The information may comprise text documents or files video documents or files or any other form of information presentation.

In an implementation the user may select to communicate with a representative via a chat session using the user computing device for example or via a telephone conference. For example in an implementation a user may initiate a consultation with a representative regarding a policy element by clicking on an element of the graphical representation about which information is desired. Multiple representatives may be available to communicate with the user where each representative is a specialist in a different area of the policy. In this manner a user may directly be put into communication with a specialist in a particular area of interest to the user.

Each coverage element of the policy e.g. bodily injury property damage towing and labor etc. has available coverage amounts in drop down menus for example that may be selected by a user. Other coverage elements than those shown in may be provided such as medical expenses loss of income essential services medical payments rental reimbursement towing and labor etc. for example.

In an implementation the user may also enter coverage amounts directly and not rely on drop down menus. Also provided are INFO and REP selection buttons that a user may select to get more information on the related coverage element or to contact a specialized representative for that coverage element area. Although only one set of INFO REP selection buttons are shown it is contemplated that each coverage element may have its own set of INFO REP selection buttons that when selected provide information or contact a representative directed to that particular coverage element area. In an implementation the graphical representation may be provided in whole or in part to a representative who may be assisting the user.

A dynamic bar chart is also provided in the graphical representation. The bar chart graphically provides information for each of the coverage elements. Information may include items such as coverage amount median recommended amount and limit . Dollar amounts pertaining to the display for example may be provided along an axis of the chart and may be displayed linearly exponentially or in any suitable manner.

Coverage amount indicates the amount of coverage the user has in their current policy or if the user has adjust the coverage amount as described with respect to for example coverage amount indicates that adjusted coverage amount. Median may refer to the median amount of coverage provided to all users who have a policy with the institution system. Median may also refer to the median amount of coverage that a selected population group has as described with respect to for example.

In an implementation the institution system may determine a recommended amount of coverage that a user should have in one or more coverage areas. Such recommended amounts may be indicated on the graphical representation. The institution system may use various data and calculators for example to determine recommended amounts. Recommended amounts of coverage may be based on data that the institution system has on the user and other users.

A coverage limit for the coverage areas may also be displayed on the graphical representation. In this manner the user may see where their amount of coverage stands relative to the maximum amount of coverage available.

Premium information may also be provided for each of the coverage elements . As the user changes the coverage amount for a coverage element using the associated amount selector the associated premium amount may also change. A user may modify a coverage amount or a deducible for example and the premium is automatically updated by the system. In this manner a user may see how their premium will change as they consider different coverage amounts and or deductibles for various coverage elements. Thus the user may see in a graphical format the ramifications of modeled insurance policy coverage changes. A total premium amount comprising the sum of the coverage elements premiums may be provided. Alternatively a user may tell the system how much premium they would like to pay and the system can provide the user with recommended coverage they may get for that premium amount. In an implementation if the user likes the policy changes they can click a commit button or other selector and put the policy changes into effect.

Additional information may be displayed such as coverage information amounts and or ranges pertaining to one or more population groups and ranges based on the median such as a range of low and high amounts around the median for example. The graphical depictions may illustrate available coverage options the user s current policy s coverage minimum and maximum coverage limits and the recommended coverage limit of the associated coverage category. Some coverage categories reflect coverage information for each of the consumer s vehicles. Further implementations may include but are not limited to industry recommended coverage levels state required coverage levels and lien holder coverage requirements. Although a bar chart with particular indicators is shown it is contemplated that any type of graphical representation and any type of indicators may be used.

In an implementation the coverage elements list each of the current policy line item coverage categories. The initial rendering of the graphical representation loads the user s current coverage designations for each line item into the drop down list box amount selector associated with each line item category. The graphical representation allows the user to select alternative coverage options via the drop down list box. Option selection may initiate a recalculation of the page to demonstrate the net effect the change would have on coverage and policy premium. It should be noted that changes to the line item coverage s are static changes for illustration and decision making purposes. Changes do not update the actual policy coverage designations unless the user commits the changes via a Keep Changes button or an Update My Policy button or the like. Thus the graphical representation allows the user to lock in changes to their policy limits. Locking in refers to the method by which the institution updates its formal policy documentation to reflect the changes to the policy and to ensure a legal binding contract.

At operation a user may log into a website associated with the institution system may be identified and authenticated using any known techniques and may request insurance information. At operation information pertaining to the user and the user s policy and coverage information may be retrieved from storage. At operation median coverage information pertaining to the type of policy that the user has may be retrieved and or generated based on information that may be retrieved from storage. At operation a graphical representation of coverage information may be generated based on the retrieved information and provided to the user.

The user may view the graphical representation and at operation may change a coverage amount or deductible for a coverage element on the graphical representation. At operation the institution system may receive the change and revise the premium information for that coverage element. The revised premium information may be displayed to the user via the graphical representation. At operation a user may select to accept the change to the policy and may advise the institution system e.g. by selecting a Keep Changes button or an Update My Policy button or the like as described above. The change may be made to the user s policy by the institution system and the user may be provided with or otherwise apprised of the updated insurance policy.

Thus the graphical representation that is provided to a user allows the user to adjust various coverages and amounts e.g. bodily injury 300 000 medical expenses coverage included etc. of an insurance policy and then see how those adjustments will affect the premium the user has to pay. Alternatively a user who does not have a policy in place may use the graphical representation to build their own policy by selecting and adjusting various coverages and amounts seeing what the premiums are and then purchasing a policy having the selected coverage and amounts.

At operation coverage information for a particular population group may be retrieved from storage. In an implementation the coverage information that is retrieved is for users in the population group who have a policy with the institution system that is the same type of policy as the user is requesting information on e.g. automobile insurance homeowner s insurance etc. . The population group may be selected by the user and may be based on one or more factors such as income marital status age number of children residence location type of vehicle age of vehicle etc. A user may select these factors via a website associated with the institution system or via a graphical representation provided to the user.

Alternatively the institution system may select a population group for comparison. In an implementation the institution system may access information about the user e.g. from user storage in and generate a profile of the user based on the information. The institution system may then retrieve coverage information for a group of users that have a similar profile.

At operation a graphical representation of coverage information may be generated based on the retrieved information and provided to the user. The graphical representation may show coverage information for the user as well as for the population group. In this manner the user may see how their coverage compares to the coverage of a peer group or population of their choice e.g. those with similar salaries those who live in the same city etc. .

In an implementation a graphical representation may be used to contrast and compare coverage information including costs available at other institutions such as at a competitor insurance company or a competitor financial services institution. This may provide additional information that may be helpful to the user.

Although examples described herein refer to automobile insurance any type of insurance may be used such as life homeowners renters etc. It is contemplated that multiple types of insurance may be presented to a user and the user may select a particular type of insurance for which a graphical representation may be generated and displayed.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

