---

title: Providing payroll software application as enterprise services
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including systems and computer program products, for a service architecture design that provides enterprise services having payroll functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations, process components, and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671035&OS=08671035&RS=08671035
owner: SAP AG
number: 08671035
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20081211
---
This specification relates to data processing systems implemented on computers and more particularly to data processing systems providing services in the nature of web services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

Web services are one technology for making the functionality of software applications available to other software including other applications. A web service is a standard based way of encapsulating the functionality of an application that other applications can locate and access. A service oriented architecture is a distributed software model within which all functionality is defined as independent web services. Within a service oriented architecture web services can be used in defined sequences according to the business logic to form applications that enable business processes.

This specification describes a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having payroll functionality at the level of an enterprise application. Enterprise services are web services that have an enterprise level business value.

In its various aspects the services architecture design can be embodied in systems methods and computer program products. For example a system in one embodiment implements a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having payroll functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations process components and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The elements of the architecture include the business object the process component the service operation or simply the operation the service interface the message and the deployment unit. The elements can also include process agents and reuse service components. These will be generally described below.

In one implementation the software is implemented to be deployed on an application platform that includes a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that can be used from multiple deployment units. These entities can be process components business objects or reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements enterprise application service interfaces. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit. It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object. A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects. A business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content and instances of business objects include content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Whether an object as a type or an instance of an object is intended by the term is generally clear from the context so the distinction will be made explicitly only when necessary. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects. A business object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . A mass data run object is an application object that executes an algorithm for a particular mass data run. An instance of a mass data run object contains a particular set of selections and parameters. A mass data run object implements an algorithm that modifies manages and or processes a large amount of data in multiple transactions possibly but not necessarily with parallel processing. A dependent object is a business object used as a reuse part in another business object. A dependent object represents a concept that cannot stand by itself from a business point of view. Instances of dependent objects only occur in the context of anon dependent business object. A transformed object is a transformation of multiple business objects for a well defined purpose. It transforms the structure of multiple business objects into a common structure. A transformed object does not have its own persistency.

The architectural elements also include the process component. A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality contains business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects. Any business object belongs to no more than one process component. Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation. An operation belongs to exactly one process component. A process component generally has multiple operations. Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents which will be described below. An operation is the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters or some combination of them serving as a signature. For convenience in supporting use of the operations supported by a system implementing elements of the design such a system can optionally include a repository of service descriptions that includes a standards based description of each of the supported service operations.

The architectural elements also include the service interface which may be referred to simply as an interface. An interface is a named group of operations. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface. An interface belongs to exactly one process component. A process component might contain multiple interfaces. In one implementation an interface contains only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can contain both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will preferably belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations to the same other process component are in one interface.

The architectural elements also include the message. Operations transmit and receive messages. Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component.

The architectural elements also include the process agent. Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages. Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. A process agent can be associated with one or more operations. Process agents can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous. Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance. Synchronous outbound process agents are generally triggered directly by a business object.

An output process agent will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the event. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit. A deployment unit includes one or more process components and optionally one or more business objects which are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a deployment unit boundary defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit.

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interactions i.e. interactions between process components involving their respective business objects operations interfaces and messages within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original.

Interactions between process components that occur only within a deployment unit are not constrained to using service operations. These can be implemented in any convenient fashion.

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units. Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are preferably assigned to their respective deployment unit.

As shown in a Payroll deployment unit includes a Payroll Processing process component a DE Employee Payroll Input business object a US Employee Payroll Input business object a CN Employee Payroll Input business object a Payroll Step Execution Run business object an Employment Payroll Input business object a Work Agreement Payroll Input business object an FR Employee Payroll Input business object a GB Employee Payroll Input business object an IT Employee Payroll Input business object a Payroll Process business object a DK Employee Payroll Input business object an NL Employee Payroll Input business object an SG Employee Payroll Input business object a ZA Employee Payroll Input business object a CA Employee Payroll Input business object an AU Employee Payroll Input business object an AT Employee Payroll Input business object a CH Employee Payroll Input business object an IN Employee Payroll Input business object and an Employee Payroll Input business object .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Compensation Agreement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s compensation agreement using a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Compensation Agreement asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Compensation Management process component . The Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Compensation Agreement operation is included in an Employee Compensation Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Planned Working Times operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s planned working times using a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Planned Working Times asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Time and Labor Management process component . The Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Planned Working Times operation is included in an Employee Time Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Time Calendar operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s time calendar agreement using a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Time Calendar or Account asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Time and Labor Management process component .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Time Account operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s time account using the Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Time Calendar or Account asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Time and Labor Management process component . The Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Time Calendar operation and the Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Time Account operation are included in an Employee Time Calendar and Account in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Payroll Agreement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s payroll using a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Payroll Agreement asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Employee Payroll Administration process component . The Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Employee Payroll Agreement operation is included in an Employee Payroll Agreement in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result operation can send a notification to maintain information on a settlement result using a Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Expense Report Settlement Result asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component .

A Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result Cancellation operation can send a notification to maintain information on settlement result cancellation using the Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Expense Report Settlement Result asynchronous inbound process agent to update one or more business objects such as the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Expense and Reimbursement Management process component . The Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result operation and the Maintain Employee Payroll Input based on Settlement Result Cancellation operation are included in an Expense Report in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s German social insurance arrangement using a Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s German tax arrangement using the Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the DE Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a DE Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the DE Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DE Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain DE Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a DE Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface .

The DE Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . The DE Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for German payroll for one employee.

A Notify of DE Employee Payroll Input Provider Details to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify operation For example the outbound process agent can notify the Employee Payroll Administration process component of additions or changes to information about the DE Employee Payroll Input business object . The Notify operation is included in a DE Payroll Input Provider Details Notification Out interface

A Request Collection Replication from DE Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request DE Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of DE Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request DE Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a DE Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from DE Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request DE Employee Payroll Input Replication operation . For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the DE Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request DE Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a DE Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface .

A Maintain US Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s United States tax arrangement using a Maintain US Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the US Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the US Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the US Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain US Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation is included in a US Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain US Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the US Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain US Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the US Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the US Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain US Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a US Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface .

The US Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the US Employee Payroll Input business object . The US Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for United States payroll for one employee.

A Notify of US Employee Payroll Input Provider Details to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify operation For example the outbound process agent can notify the Employee Payroll Administration process component of additions or changes to information about the US Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending a notification to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Notify operation is included in a US Employee Payroll Input Provider Details Notification Out interface

A Request Collection Replication from US Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request US Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of US Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request US Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a US Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from US Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request US Employee Payroll Input Replication operation . For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the US Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request US Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a US Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface .

A Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Chinese social insurance arrangement using a Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Chinese tax arrangement using the Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the CN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a CN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the CN Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CN Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain CN Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a CN Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface .

The CN Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the CN Employee Payroll Input business object . The CN Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Chinese payroll for one employee.

A Notify of CN Employee Payroll Input Provider Details to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify operation For example the outbound process agent can notify the Employee Payroll Administration process component of additions or changes to information about the CN Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending a notification to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Notify operation is included in a CN Employee Payroll Input Provider Details Notification Out interface

A Request Collection Replication from CN Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request CN Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of CN Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request CN Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a CN Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from CN Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request CN Employee Payroll Input Replication operation . For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the CN Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request CN Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a CN Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface .

A Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s French social insurance arrangement using a Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the FR Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the FR Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the FR Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation is included in an FR Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the FR Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the FR Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the FR Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain FR Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an FR Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface .

The FR Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the FR Employee Payroll Input business object . The FR Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for French payroll for one employee.

A Notify of FR Employee Payroll Input Provider Details to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify operation For example the outbound process agent can notify the Employee Payroll Administration process component of additions or changes to information about the FR Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending a notification to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Notify operation is included in an FR Employee Payroll Input Provider Details Notification Out interface

A Request Collection Replication from FR Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request FR Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of FR Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request FR Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation a is included in an FR Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from FR Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request FR Employee Payroll Input Replication operation . For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the FR Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request FR Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an FR Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface .

A Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s British social insurance arrangement using a Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s British tax arrangement using the Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the GB Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a GB Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the GB Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the GB Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain GB Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a GB Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface .

The GB Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the GB Employee Payroll Input business object . The GB Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for British payroll for one employee.

A Notify of GB Employee Payroll Input Provider Details to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify operation For example the outbound process agent can notify the Employee Payroll Administration process component of additions or changes to information about the GB Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending a notification to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Notify operation is included in a GB Employee Payroll Input Provider Details Notification Out interface

A Request Collection Replication from GB Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request GB Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of GB Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request GB Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a GB Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from GB Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request GB Employee Payroll Input Replication operation . For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the GB Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request GB Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a GB Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface .

A Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Italian social insurance arrangement using a Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Italian tax arrangement using the Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the IT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in an IT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the IT Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the IT Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain IT Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an IT Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface .

The IT Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the IT Employee Payroll Input business object . The IT Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Italian payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from IT Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request IT Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of IT Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request IT Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in an IT Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from IT Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request IT Employee Payroll Input Replication operation . For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the IT Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request IT Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an IT Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface .

A Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Pension Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Australian pension insurance arrangement using a Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the AU Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the AU Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Australian tax arrangement using the Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the AU Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the AU Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the AU Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Pension Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in an AU Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface .

A Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the AU Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the AU Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the AU Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain AU Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an AU Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The AU Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the AU Employee Payroll Input business object . The AU Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Australian payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from AU Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request AU Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of AU Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request AU Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in an AU Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from AU Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request AU Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the AU Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request AU Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an AU Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Canadian tax arrangement using a Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CA Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CA Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the CA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation is included in a CA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the CA Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CA Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CA Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain CA Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a CA Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The CA Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the CA Employee Payroll Input business object . The CA Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Canadian payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from CA Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request CA Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of CA Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request CA Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a CA Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from CA Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request CA Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the CA Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request CA Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a CA Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Danish social insurance arrangement using a Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input Status based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the DK Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DK Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Danish tax arrangement using the Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input Status based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the DK Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DK Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the DK Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a DK Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the DK Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the DK Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the DK Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain DK Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a DK Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The DK Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the DK Employee Payroll Input business object . The DK Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Danish payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from DK Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request DK Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of DK Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request DK Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a DK Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from DK Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request DK Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the DK Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request DK Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a DK Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Dutch social insurance arrangement using a Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input Status based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the NL Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the NL Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Dutch tax arrangement using the Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input Status based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the NL Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the NL Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the NL Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a NL Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the NL Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input Status based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the NL Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the NL Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain NL Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an NL Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The NL Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the NL Employee Payroll Input business object . The NL Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Dutch payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from NL Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request NL Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of NL Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request NL Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in an NL Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from NL Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request NL Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the NL Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request NL Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an NL Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Singaporean social insurance arrangement using a Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the SG Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the SG Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Singaporean tax arrangement using the Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the SG Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the SG Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the SG Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in an SG Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the SG Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the SG Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the SG Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain SG Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an SG Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The SG Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the SG Employee Payroll Input business object . The SG Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Singaporean payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from SG Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request SG Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of SG Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request SG Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in an SG Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from SG Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request SG Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the SG Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request SG Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an SG Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s South African social insurance arrangement using a Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component .

A Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s South African tax arrangement using the Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance process component . The Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a ZA Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain ZA Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a ZA Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The ZA Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object . The ZA Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for South African payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from ZA Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request ZA Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of ZA Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request ZA Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a ZA Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from ZA Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request ZA Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the ZA Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request ZA Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a ZA Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Austrian social insurance arrangement using a Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the AT Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the AT Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the AT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component

A Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Austrian tax arrangement using the Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the AT Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the AT Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the AT Employer Regulatory Compliance process component The Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in an AT Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the AT Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the AT Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the AT Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain AT Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an AT Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The AT Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the AT Employee Payroll Input business object . The AT Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Austrian payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from AT Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request AT Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of AT Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request AT Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in an AT Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from AT Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request AT Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the AT Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request AT Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an AT Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Swiss social insurance arrangement using a Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CH Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CH Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the CH Employer Regulatory Compliance process component

A Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Swiss tax arrangement using the Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CH Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CH Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the CH Employer Regulatory Compliance process component The Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in a CH Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the CH Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the CH Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the CH Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain CH Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in a CH Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The CH Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the CH Employee Payroll Input business object . The CH Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Swiss payroll for one employee.

A Request Collection Replication from CH Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request CH Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of CH Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request CH Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in a CH Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from CH Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request CH Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the CH Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request CH Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in a CH Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Indian social insurance arrangement using a Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the IN Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the IN Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the IN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component

A Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation can send a notification to maintain information on an employee s Indian tax arrangement using the Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Employer Regulatory Compliance asynchronous inbound process agent to update the IN Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the IN Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the IN Employer Regulatory Compliance process component The Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Social Insurance Arrangement operation and the Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input based on Tax Arrangement operation are included in an IN Employer Regulatory Compliance in Payroll Input Maintenance In interface

A Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input Status operation can send a notification to maintain information on the status of the IN Employee Payroll Input business object using a Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input Status based on Replication Confirmation asynchronous inbound process agent to update the IN Employee Payroll Input business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the IN Employee Payroll Input business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain IN Employee Payroll Input Status operation is included in an IN Employee Payroll Input Replication In interface

The IN Employee Payroll Input business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the IN Employee Payroll Input business object . The IN Employee Payroll Input business object can be a summary of all employee specific input for Indian payroll for one employee.

A Notify of IN Employee Payroll Input Provider Details to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify operation For example the outbound process agent can notify the Employee Payroll Administration process component of additions or changes to information about the IN Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending a notification to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Notify operation is included in an IN Employee Payroll Input Provider Details Notification Out interface

A Request Collection Replication from IN Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request IN Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of a collection of IN Employee Payroll Input business object instances to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request IN Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication operation is included in an IN Employee Payroll Input Collection Replication Out interface

A Request Replication from IN Employee Payroll Input to Payroll Processing at Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request IN Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request replication of the IN Employee Payroll Input business object to a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request IN Employee Payroll Input Replication operation is included in an IN Employee Payroll Input Replication Out interface

A Maintain Payroll Process operation can send a notification to the Payroll Process business object that a payroll provider is ready with the setups required for a country specific payroll run using a Maintain Payroll Process based on Provider Setup asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Payroll Process business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the Payroll Process business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain Payroll Process operation is included in a Payroll Processing Setup In interface

A Maintain Payroll Input Replication Status operation can send a notification to maintain a payroll input replication status based on a payroll provider confirmation using a Maintain Payroll Process Status and Results asynchronous inbound process agent a to update the Payroll Process business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the Payroll Process business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component .

A Maintain Payroll Process Status based on Execution Confirmation operation can send a notification to maintain a payroll process status based on an execution confirmation from a payroll provider using the asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Payroll Process business object . For example the operation can send a notification to update the Payroll Process business object if input is received from the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Maintain Payroll Input Replication Status operation and the Maintain Payroll Process Status based on Execution Confirmation operation are included in a Payroll Step Execution Requesting In interface

The Payroll Process business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in outbound process agents can receive information from the Payroll Process business object . The Payroll Process business object can be a process that runs the payroll for a group of employees in a payroll period.

A Notify of Payroll Process to Employee Payroll Administration asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Payroll Process Collection operation For example the outbound process agent can send a notification of changes in the payroll process to the view of the payroll process in a human capital management deployment unit by sending input to the Employee Payroll Administration process component . The Notify of Payroll Process Collection operation a is included in a Payroll Process Employee Payroll Administration Notification Out interface

A Request Payroll Input Replication from Payroll Processing to Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Employee Payroll Input Replication operation For example the outbound process agent can request the replication of employee payroll input on a payroll group level by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component .

A Request Payroll Step Execution from Payroll Processing to Provider asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Payroll Step Execution operation For example the outbound process agent can request execution of a step in the payroll process from a payroll provider by sending input to the Payroll Processing at Provider process component . The Request Employee Payroll Input Replication operation and the Request Payroll Step Execution operation are included in a Payroll Step Execution Requesting Out interface

The implementation of the Payroll Processing process component is further supported by several business objects although no operations or process agents involving the business objects are explicitly shown in . These business objects are the Payroll Step Execution Run business object the Work Agreement Payroll Input business object the Employee Payroll Input business object and the Employment Payroll Input business object . The Payroll Step Execution Run business object represents a specification of an automatic run that executes a payroll process step for a selected group of employees. The Work Agreement Payroll Input business object represents a summary of country independent payroll input for a work agreement. The Employee Payroll Input business object represents a summary of the country independent payroll input for an employee. The Employment Payroll Input business object represents a summary of the country independent payroll input for an employment.

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the present disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as an exemplification of preferred embodiments of the present disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

