---

title: Payroll processing, certification, reporting and project management system and method
abstract: A computer implemented business method and process directed to enabling a public works contractor employer who contracts for work on one or more government agency public works projects or who contracts for work on concurrent private and public works projects, in a singlular or plurality of jurisdictions to process payroll on contract-specific bases in order to: generate certified payroll records in accordance with the currently applicable rules and standards for content and format required by a plurality of awarding body or enforcement jurisdictions and at predetermined intervals; provide alerts and reports allowing said contractor to anticipate compliance vulnerability and choose real time manpower adjustments for such management issues as apprentice/journeyman ratio; provide evidence of meeting and exceeding government objectives in order to establish a record and reputation of compliance; and generate reports for managing the assignment of personnel to enhance worker cooperation, spirit, and morale.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744933&OS=08744933&RS=08744933
owner: 
number: 08744933
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080318
---
Applicant hereby represents that no part of the subject invention or application has come about with the assistance of government funds or by virtue of a government program.

The present invention relates generally to core payroll processing and augmenting and support processing for reports generation specifically for the taxpayer funded public works sector construction contractor. Said contractor may be operating under a plurality of payroll periods while performing on a plurality of projects publically or privately funded for a plurality of public agency awarding bodies and or private owners which may be governed by differing regulations and contract terms regarding reporting reporting format and content payroll period duration and apprentice utilization among other things. Additionally the present invention will provide additional contractor s project management tools such as tracking compiling reporting analyzing planning processing certifying for regulatory compliance payroll and man hours by labor classification and day and payroll processing cost.

Presently in the field of government funded construction projects also known as Public Works hereinafter so termed contractors are required in a variety of jurisdictions to pay mandated minimum wages also known as prevailing wages based on classification of work type and other factors such as geographic location of the construction site and to provide certified payroll records hereinafter CPRs among other things. When submitted by the Public Works construction contractor CPRs are intended to serve as prima facie evidence of the wages paid and any fringe benefit contributions made to or on behalf of each worker on the project broken down by craft type or classification of work per hour and per day along with various information items related to the project the awarding body and the employees working thereupon herinafter CPR criteria . For purposes of this specification the term Public Works is meant to describe work done by a non governmental entity contractor employer that performs construction alteration demolition installation or repair work consistent with California Labor Code 1720 et. seq. United States Code Davis Bacon and Related Acts Title 40 U.S.C. 3141 et. seq. and all other similar laws and regulations of any states and any political subdivisions therein. The term Public Works as used herein is not to be considered the same as the term as used for example as the title name of Title 21 California Code of Regulations which governs such things as the State Architect s Office and the Department of Transportation.

Complicating the matter depending on the awarding body governmental entity e.g. municipal county state or federal the format and specific content requirements of CPRs can vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and there is no universally accepted format or gold standard as to the CPR criteria content of CPRs within the sector. The number and classification and the method or basis of accounting of these CPR criteria can vary with significance.

Often as previously referenced above a contractor may have work in more than one jurisdiction and therefore be subject to different obligations regarding such things as payroll period duration payroll detail reporting and apprenticeship employment requirements. And because much of the pertinent compliance information is readily available online nowadays there is ever increasing pressure on Public Works contractors and the awarding bodies commissioning the projects to be cognizant of their respective duties to ensure that proper wages are paid and correct payperiods are used among other things. Due to technological advances and increasing ease of information gathering and sharing the standards for Public Works payroll processing reporting and enforcement are rising albeit inconsistently. Distinctions between and the evolution of the rules of different jurisdictions are becoming clearer to interested parties including contractors enforcement authorities and awarding body agencies due to greater awareness and availability of the pertinent information via the web.

Yet often it is so within a given jurisdiction there is no mandate by statute regulation or even an agency generated written instruction or policy regarding the specific elements of payroll CPR criteria which ought to be reported. Indeed it is difficult to find any CPR format in any jurisdiction which is not susceptible to question or argument as to that which constitutes best practices of data configuration and CPR criteria content because there is such a lack of specificity in the policies instructions or law. As previously stated there is essentially no single standard for CPR criteria content across all public works in general. In fact when all CPR formats are combined from all jurisdictions there are approximately seventy specific elements of CPR criteria to list. Yet no single jurisdiction requires more than approximately forty four of these total elements of CPR criteria to be reported on their version of a CPR. Many jurisdictions require far less than forty four. The various CPRs are also known in California as Public Works Payroll Reporting Form A 1 131 in Illinois as Certified Transcript of Payroll within the New York School Construction Authority as Certification of Payroll under United States Dept. of Labor jurisdiction projects as simply Payroll Form WH 347 and are called by other names elsewhere. However all the forms and formats either as integrally complete or in combination with other forms are borne of substantially the same basis of intent and purpose.

Admittedly a variety of CPR criteria elements are fairly standard or commonplace in that virtually all payroll of any employment sector must calculate the basic discrete elements such as wages federal state and local income tax deductions federal social security and medicare contribution deductions FICA . For purposes of this disclosure these standard aspects of payroll processing however actually accomplished by means of a data processing program may be referred to as the core level of payroll processing. However it is only in some cases that the elements of core payroll processing employer payments or contributions known as fringe benefits such as health insurance premiums or pension fund contributions or other payments for such things as training fund support are required as elements of the aggregate CPR criteria to be shown under the rules of a given jurisdiction. Other times for example as in the case of the Federal Government form WH 347 no breakdown is required for fringe benefits if a certified statement is submitted declaring all proper payments have been or will be timely made. In other jurisdictions these fringe benefits may be reported on a separate report as discrete line items showing an hourly rate to be paid per fringe benefit category for the particular type or classification of work. This report is to be incorporated by reference into each CPR as a separate fringe benefit statement . Yet even when the required report criteria includes all the aforementioned there is often a lack of governmental mandate as to how these amounts must be accounted for in relation to such things as the pay period gross wage or the hours worked for the particular public works project. Furthermore it is required in some jurisdictions that the gross amount earned by the worker on the subject public works project be listed but that also the gross amount earned by the worker for all work during the report period be shown. Also some jurisdictions require on the report the sex and ethnicity of the individual workers. Yet another disparity between jurisdictions regarding CPR criteria is whether names addresses and social security numbers of workers shall be shown or remain as confidential information. Finally in some cases the hours worked on all work assignments by the worker during the pay period regardless of whether or not the worker delivered the work upon the subject CPR project is required. As previously stated often a contractor may have work in more than one jurisdiction and be subject to different obligations regarding such things as payroll period duration format of payroll records reporting and apprenticeship employment.

As described in the preceding paragraphs the standard for CPR format configuration and content is not uniformly established. In fact the locally required format may change at any time in any particular jurisdiction depending upon such things as the views of the authority or administration regarding regulation of wages or which portions of the elements of any given payroll breakdown are most useful in the oversight process. The realm of Public Works payroll reporting encompasses everything from the rudimentary to the highly specific and much in between these extremes. This variance causes ongoing confusion dispute and inefficiency among participants in the sector whether they be contractors workers governmental awarding bodies union compliance or government compliance personnel or the public in general. Because of these conditions there is no gold standard yet established along these lines.

What is needed then is a method of processing payroll for Public Works contractors which has the capability to create CPRs of content of CPR criteria and in a format which meets or exceeds any given jurisdiction s standards of that day. Furthermore since possibly an individual contractor and certainly a payroll service bureau processor will likely have the task of preparing payroll reports under a plurality of unique jurisdictional mandates what is needed is a system which can efficiently process payroll and generate reports tailored to each case during the same payroll period and report period doing so concurrently on a multi jurisdictional basis.

A variety of Stand Alone core payroll processing computer programs or engines hereinafter SA s such as Quickbooks and others have provisions for keeping track of and reporting certain of the more standard criteria found in day to day payroll accounting and reporting common to any employer but do not have the capability to process the more particularized criteria common to governmental or Public Works projects requiring payroll certification. Quickbooks is a registered trademark of Intuit Software maker of the popular Quicken and Quickbooks personal and business financial tracking software products.

Since the 1950 swhen companies have looked to cut overhead costs or borrow or learn from best practices of other companies experience the trend to outsourcing various overhead functions has led to the emergence of core payroll service companies or bureaus hereinafter PSB which have developed computer processing engines to manage the payroll tracking computation and function of check issuance thereby relieving the contractor of internal overhead variable expenses which may change over time and for which a reduction in personnel may be achieved by turning such a traditional accounting function over to a company having specialty in such services. These core PSB s are subject to an additional facet of complexity as they perform their function for a number of clients contractors and non contractors alike . At present although capable of generating many types of management assistance reports of many configurations based on the data inherent in most if not all legally recognized employment sectors including Public Works contractor sector payroll and although also capable of generating CPRS in compliance with only a very limited number of jurisdictional regulations PSB s cannot fulfill all possible individual governmental entity requirements for CPR criteria on a broad range of Public Works projects and further they perform almost no function which could assist the contractor in managing the application of its labor force pro actively to assure continued compliance on projects. Often the only option provided a contractor is to operate on a weekly payroll period and accept Federal Public Works CPR criteria rules as the only option regardless of whether or not more stringent CPR criteria are required by the awarding body jurisdiction in which the contractor is involved and regardless of the potential of being called to task at any time for fully compliant reports with the full volume of that particular jurisdiction s CPR criteria in it s precisely organized official format. Industry Giant ADP began in New Jersey as an outsourced payroll processor in the early 1950 s.

Another fundamental cause of complexity stems from not only the aforementioned variations in CPR criteria requirments but the fact that many contractors may perform work on multiple regulated projects at the same time and may also concurrently work on non regulated Public Works or privately funded contracts or other work assignments with the same labor personnel even during the same payroll period such as driving a vehicle to and from the jobsite. This means that multiple calculations involving varying time and hourly rate of pay may apply for one employee of a customer who has worked on Public Works and private sector projects during the same week and even the same day. PSB s which are either regional market based or national market based and SA computer programs and systems currently are not set up to meet this complexity and require either custom computer applications maintained internally by the contractor or must be manually tracked and reported by same in order to meet government requirements for creating and submitting CPRs on Public Works projects when CPRs are required at the highest CPR criteria content standard while maintaining the flexibility to distinguish between public sector and private works applications of labor.

Because of the complexity faced by regional or national market PSB s in providing specialized tracking and reporting for contractors engaging in both public and private projects and the generic nature and limitations of the aforementioned SA s many contractors have found it necessary to resort to the implementation of costly and sophisticated payroll processing systems in an attempt to satisfy the regulatory requirements for certifying payroll reports or maintain a costly staff of accounting and payroll personnel to meet their reporting obligations. In many instances contractors are deficient or inaccurate in their tracking and reporting of necessary CPR criteria even in some cases dummying up reports and certifications in order to satisfy regulatory mandates and thereby acting unlawfully.

Unfortunately many of the sophisticated systems which do exist in the field today fail to accurately create CPRs which may be certified by the contractor or to create other management reports for such things as apprentice to journeyman utilization and ratio at the necessary CPR criteria because 1 a comprehensive understanding of the legislative intent of the statutory requirements and the administrative intent of the regulatory mandates and contractor requirements for the adherence to same which is highly specific to the Public Works sector is typically not found in the knowledge base of the executive business leaders accountants and programmers who create standalone and customized payroll processing engine systems 2 variations in the opinions of government administrators even in the same jurisdiction related to rule interpretation as to such things as CPR criteria as well as regulatory and rules changes made by the various jurisdictions quickly render the SA s and customized programs of PSB s and large contractors inadequate and 3 most if not all SA s do not provide reporting functions which are generally satisfactory to the reporting requirements and standards of the Public Works construction contracting prevailing wage law and regulation governed employment sector. The contractor which maintains its own payroll calculation and certification or reporting functions must continually train and maintain a knowledgeable payroll and accounting staff and its computerized payroll system at high cost and subject to significant risk if such maintenance of staff and systems is deficient. Such a burden increases general and administrative costs thereby making some contractors less competitive in the marketplace. What is needed is a system or method to support and augment local regional or national market PSB s and SA s in the core payroll processing of varied hourly rate labor classifications and other aspects of payroll processing generally unique to the tax payer funded Public Works construction contractor employment sector doing so in such a way to maintain adherence to the varied and ever changing regulatory schemes for such things as CPR criteria at the same time providing for the calculation tracking and reporting in certifiable form as needed various payroll elements and aspects pertaining to multiple employees of contractors working on a combination of Public Works and private sector projects.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 401 079 B1 issued Jun. 4 2002 to Kahn et al. describes a System For Web Based Payroll and Benefits Administration. This reference implements and enforces compliance with a wide variety of core payroll tax related and employment related rules across a variety of governmental jurisdictions relating to such core payroll issues as overtime pay benefit limits payment frequency and scheduled tax reporting requirements. The system is described as capable of receiving electronic updates automatically to ensure compliance with current rule changes related to core payroll processing. It also states that employers may set up custom policies and the systems can review and validate employees paychecks as well as print paychecks or submit them to a back end payroll service. In this reference a substantive description of the various SA systems enterprise level human resource information systems HRIS and the problem of integrating payroll system functionality with that of a centralized payroll service are discussed.

As pointed out by the Kahn reference SA programs are difficult to update on a frequent enough basis to assure continued current compliance with regulatory changes. While such changes can be issued by the software company s updating and maintenance departments the sophisticated systems described above also require extensive reprogramming in order to update compliance factors to be applied to the appropriate criterion.

Kahn purports to provide full featured payroll system functionality in a single embodiment on both the client and server side with a robust user interface via a standard web browser. The system includes a centralized database on the server side to provide constant access to raw data to both the back end payroll service and to the system interface.

In today s world through the use of relational databases database management systems and related programming architectures structures and methods which create links between various tables by certain common or specialized fields the same may be accomplished with relative ease.

Kahn further provides custom reports which the system will generate to the appropriate party at specified reporting interval s . However there is no disclosure in Kahn regarding the non cutomized turn key Public Works related complete CPR criteria reporting functionality contemplated in the present invention.

When the employee works on a mix of public or private contracts or for a plurality of contracts the employee payroll elements must be treated on an aggregate basis of all work and pay for the pay period and further brought into a weekly basis to meet the format requirements of most jurisdictions regarding CPR criteria and yet further also be treated on a project specific basis in order to fully comply with the requirements for CPR criteria for the subject project or projects.

What Kahn does not appear to provide for is the calculation of various when a multiplicity of projects are worked upon by the same employee during a given pay period and which may also fall under one or more given weekly basis CPR reporting period which will require the reporting of various portions of the total pay period s payroll criteria.

What is needed then is a Public Works construction sector focused payroll processing tracking and reporting system and method which addresses by contract or project the payroll elements such that reporting may be complete in CPR criteria and certifiable based on the requirements of each individual project contract or subcontract for a plurality of awarding body jurisdictions. Furthermore said system and method should be capable of supporting integration with or supporting augmentation of both PSB s and SA s.

Furthermore to aid a contractor in analyzing whether it is supplying the correct ratio of journeymen to apprentices for a given contract rather than as in Kahn which provides custom reports only at specified intervals real time work type or classification ratios should be reportable to said contractors with comparisons to required limits or thresholds to allow the contractor in real time to increase or decrease manpower by work type or classification as necessary to achieve compliance and most importantly to avoid non compliance.

In a system like the Kahn system in order for a contractor to be able to so project manage it would be necessary for the system to print out certain CPR criteria such as labor classifications and the contractor would need to interpret said results with an eye toward desired ratios for the entire contract.

Kahn does not appear to teach any such project management function. Much of the customized features pertain to financial items such as retirement direct deposit pension plans etc. It does not appear that Kahn contemplates any kind of productivity or classification ratio analysis which would allow a contractor to assure continued compliance with a specific contract.

To have enhanced utility for a Public Works contractor a payroll processing and reporting system whether an internal manual system PSB or SA should provide means for interpolating or extrapolating real time compliance with regulatory requirements. In order to accomplish such analysis it is necessary to have a means to input and compare the primarily non financial overall manhour targets by labor classification for meaningful comparison with actual work performed. Granted one could track the amount spent by classification to arrive at a specific ratio but the amount which comprises the denominator in any such calculation is still fundamentally a function of the overall number of target manhours to be allowed or limited. The prior art does not appear to demonstrate in standalone or other dedicated payroll processing programs or systems adequate provisions for tracking the progress of labor classifications against contract targets necessary in meeting minimum apprentice employment requirements reporting or certification.

What is needed is a system which contains contract specific journeyman and apprentice hour ratio and or limits in the form of manhours planned or contracted for in order to alert a contractor when labor classification apprenticeship to journeyman ratios are vulnerable to slipping out of compliance and to enable project management decisions to be made to assure concurrent continued or final compliance. Such additional system and method would need to include the capacity for ongoing updates for change orders or extra work approved for each project contract .

Along the lines of reporting vulnerability is the opportunity to also report and take credit for exceeding compliance in such a way to show the management of the contractor in a preferred light to a government agency for demonstrating better results for using for example minority workers disabled and other classifications of workers that the government has indicated it desires to employ on public projects. Such reporting may be used to place the contractor in a better competitive position in future bidding or contracting opportunities with said agency or may be touted in pre qualification rounds or in the bid offering submitted to a governmental agency for preferred consideration or evaluation.

What is needed then is additional classification means to identify preferential groups or other criteria to be reported by contractors to demonstrate and communicate an improvement on the objectives of a government agency involved letting contracts.

Similar to the immediately foregoing preference success reporting it is incumbent on the part of contractors to also spread projects across his employee base such that each employee has an opportunity where possible to work on particularly good projects thereby increasing worker morale. This morality factor has significant impact on employee retention productivity and soft impacts such as employee spirit and cooperation for example when requested to work overtime or switch tasks jobs or work locations the employee having confidence that the employer will treat the employee with fairness and integrity. Such workforce morale provides distinct benefits to employees as well as perceived value added dimensions to the contractors client and customer base and is believed to contribute to employee productivity.

What is needed then is tracking and reporting means for providing capability to an employer contractor to manage his workforce over time across his contractual commitments so that distribution of preferred work within the company occurs under a method of objective fairness.

The United States Patent and Trademark Office granted U.S. Pat. No. 6 850 905 B2 on Feb. 1 2005 to Kelly for a MODULAR SERVICE PAYROLL SYSTEM.

The Kelly reference provides a payroll system and method for processing payroll for employees for work during a pay period on any of one or more projects. A debit account is provided for the employee in order to allow for extra time which the employee works but is not billed to the customer as well as inexcusable extra time each potentially being offset to the account of the employee. A company factor is also established for manipulation as a function for a unit rate compensation amount allowing management review of productivity and overall efficiency of a department of the company.

While these types of measurements are helpful in a general management sense as taught the Kelly reference does not lend itself to the realm of contract compliance for Public Works projects. In fact the nature of prevailing wage laws and provisions prohibit the type of system taught by Kelly because Public Works prevailing wage laws do not comport with schemes such as piece work or the crediting back of time on employee accounts and are thereby fundamentally in conflict with such payment policies.

While most contractor based payroll is reported and paid on a weekly basis some other bases do exist for payroll based primarily on labor hours expended. It is most common in the industry to pay construction workers at the end of a calendar week or a weekly pay period. Other pay period exist such as bi weekly every two weeks semi monthly twice monthly monthly etc. It is quite uncommon to have a pay period which would be less than one week however it is true that in the case of termination a worker is entitled to receive his or her pay immediately or within a specified time after termination and in fact some contractors are prepared to pay an employee upon termination a rate for the day or hours worked up to and including the last shift worked.

What is needed then is a method which allows complete flexibility in the reporting of payroll on weekly basis CPRs or any other reporting period required by a given jurisdiction in which the actually calculated core payroll may also be based on variable pay periods from the hour to the day to a standard weekly pay period a standard bi weekly period semi monthly period and even a longer period where allowed while maintaining the ability to create a weekly basis CPR regardless of pay period duration.

Also needed is a method to track manage and report employee work on a plurality of projects integral to the compliance reporting and management of workers in at least a partial government setting. This is acutely necessary when more than one contract has time applied against it in the same pay period for the same worker or workers.

Other companies or products which currently provide Public Works contractor focused payroll systems of which Applicant is aware include 

Sunburst Software an add on to primary core payroll software processor Quickbooks in which the SA desktop user enters data prior to core payroll processing on a payroll report form interface. Sunburst s product then combines the primary core payroll processor s information with job specific criteria for a certified payroll record or CPR. However the added reporting functions which will aid the contractor in changing course during the contract are not included with the Sunburst product and the real time daily and more specifically hourly nature of reporting and tracking elements over a multiplicity of contracts for a single worker as well as tracking classification specific hours accrued against estimated hours either do not exist or are insufficient to meet the various management needs as articulated above for today s Public Works contractor. In addition the Sunburst Software system must be individually customized by the programmer to match with any given jurisdiction s standards of the day for CPR criteria i.e. not all configurations and elements are available to the contractor through the SA software itself and

American Contractor a product intended for large contractors which treats an inordinate amount of functions for the contractor from estimating cost tracking payroll company accounting material purchases project management and other business and financial matters.

For the contractor who primarily needs a product to satisfy simple certified payroll reporting at or greater than any given jurisdiction s possibly unique standard for the elements of same and real time labor hour management of its relevant contracts the product is over capable and seriously cost prohibitive. It is essentially an all or nothing commitment. More applicable to the construction business on a seriously large scale the product is simply a vastly more complex solution than required and the amount of cost training and time required to become familiar enough and to continue using the product would not be cost or time effective for the anticipated specialized independent government contractor which does not want to run his entire business with such a huge and expensive system and only needs to track and report labor within regulatory requirements according to specific contracts and

Paychex Preview core payroll processing system which will only create reports with CPR criteria consistent with Federal Public Works laws WH 347 form and not for instance State of California version of CPR A 1 131 . The Paychex Preview core payroll processing engine system is also limited to a weekly basis pay period when a contractor wishes to utilize the Federal CPR report function on their payroll.

What is needed then is a method and system which is cost effective user friendly highly flexible and comprehensive as to variable data element and payroll period configurations which renders a focused solution to provide complete CPR criteria certifiable forms as required locally or regionally by government contracting regulations and furthermore is capable of delivering substantive management supporting reports enabling the contractor to effectively manage his workforce as well as to pro actively plan for and assure contractual compliance.

Applicant s business method and system is directed to enabling an employer who contracts directly as prime contractor or as a subcontractor at any tier of contractual hierarchy under a prime contractor for work under one or more government agencies jurisdictions for one or more Public Works projects or who contracts concurrently on several multi jurisdictional private and Public Works projects to process core payroll in such a way as to generate CPRs which meet or exceed the CPR criteria requirements of any given governmental agency jurisdiction mandate or policy provide alerts and reports allowing said contractor to anticipate compliance vulnerability and choose real time manpower options provide evidence of meeting and exceeding government objectives as well as managing the assignment of personnel to enhance worker cooperation spirit and hence morale.

The invention comprises in part a core payroll processing augmenting and supporting method a system a set of related data tables or stores for processing payroll for workers employed by construction firms who contract at least in part with government agencies or who subcontract under prime contractors at any tier of contractual hierarchy who contract at least in part with government agencies for Public Works project work where said contracts are subject to jurisdiction specific rules regulations and statutes pertaining to payroll elements such as the payment of minimum prevailing wage by labor classification the regular submission of reports which contain the jurisdiction specific CPR criteria on the reports and in some cases minimum apprentice to journeymen employment ratios and may require contractor contributions into training funds in addition to other disbursements or deposits typically determined by the number of man hours expended on any given contract.

It is an object of the present invention to augment and support the core payroll process to the degree necessary such that at least portions of the raw payroll related input data from the contractor end user is initially sequentially and or simultaneously processed and core payroll process output data is received in order to provide data with such completeness which is employee specific classification or work type specific time and day specific and project specific such that calculation and reporting of all payroll and regulatory elements applying to employment of workers on the specific project may be accurate complete and certifiable and in compliance with whatever the jurisdiction for that particular project requires in core payroll processing and CPR criteria and any other Public Works specific documentation or reports at or greater than the jurisdiction s standard while still being priced in such a way to be efficient for all parties.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention said data would be processed in a system of relational database tables such as by utilizing SQL software containing all appropriate employee information as well as pertinent regulation and project specific data required of each jurisdiction for which the invention is programmed for applicability for completion of proper CPRs in said jurisdiction s . Provision of such data will allow all standard payroll calculations to be generated for normal core payroll processing and subsequently capture informational results back to Applicant s system for additional processing and generation of CPRs and specific project management tools associated with hours and classifications of workers.

In computer programming APIs Application Programming Interfaces and ABIs Application Binary Interfaces are known abstractly as programmed computer readable instructions and other data flow pathways for computerized processes which allow data to be passed between discrete programs or program components to achieve some useful purpose. Currently Wikipedia defines API as . . . a specification intended to be used as an interface by software components to communicate with each other . . . and defines ABI as . . . the low level interface between a computer program and the operating system or another program . . . . Applicant s add on supporting and augmenting application and the primary processing core payroll processing application to which applicant s system is joined may require a configuration within this broad computer programming field abstraction which is well known in the art. Some forms of APIs and ABI s include web based or direct interface. As is well known in the art API s and ABI s are supported to allow other software developers to produce applications for use in conjunction with other applications for a variety of functions. For example a directly connected bolt on system might require a programmed set of instructions which allow the core payroll system to talk to the supporting and augmenting system of the present invention. Or in another example a cloud API might be required to join the programs in a cloud based or cloud supported system. Finally if a secure server FTP or other similar input output secure system is required an API or ABI which allows for web connection of the two systems could be utilized. For purposes of this disclosure the terms API and ABI are meant to describe any means of connecting together the two separate systems of core payroll processing engine and the present invention.

It is a further object of the preferred embodiment of Applicant s invention to provide data tables which contain overall contract ratio or limit data in the form of man hours planned or contracted for in order to alert a contractor when labor classification compliance ratios such as minimum or maximum apprentice to journeyman hours ratio requirements for a specific project are vulnerable to slipping out of compliance and to enable project management decisions to be made to assure concurrent continued or final compliance upon completion of the project.

Therefore a table is provided which allows for a variety of labor classification and planned manhour information to enable the calculation of various limits and ratios which are relevant to assure compliance with such items as Journeyman Apprentice ratios etc. Such additional information would need also to be updated to reflect similar reporting for change orders or extra work approved for each contract. Running tabulations based on increased planned hours totals for original contract scope plus change orders estimates or finally agreed hours would be utilized by Applicant s system to maintain the integrity of such limit or ratio reporting as the subject project progressed through time toward completion.

Such calculations can also be utilized to provide the employer contractor with alerts such as final opportunities to make adjustments to the allocation of journeyman or apprentice hours in specific labor classifications on a specific project thus enabling the employer contractor to go beyond the payroll processing function toward the project management function to assure real time or current future or final compliance with regulatory mandates by specific Public Works project contract.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide the contractor with means to demonstrate a history of operating on Public Works projects with high standards of labor and apprentice utilization compliance which may be useful when applying for pre qualification status bonding or other potentially important business concerns of a similar nature.

It is also an object of the present invention to track manage and report employee work on a plurality of projects integral to the compliance reporting and management of labor working on private and Public Works projects. This is accomplished by linking the employee data with the contract data by a simple entry on a timesheet for example. When a manhour for a particular employee is stated as having been expended on a particular task code related to a particular contract that unique manhour creates a link between the contract table and the employee data table thereby enabling the system to distinguish that employee s work regardless of contract but with respect to each contract and inclusive thereof. It is further possible by information in the employee table to relate to multiple labor classifications defined or included in the contract table to allow any worker to be billed against the appropriate contract according to the correct labor classification.

It is a further object of the instant invention to provide capability to an employer contractor to manage his workforce along with his ability to track labor classification and certify compliance with contract specific regulations. By linking the employee data tables with the contract data tables management can track the number of manhours expended by employee on each contract or even more specifically by class or type of task thereby providing the necessary information to facilitate fairness in workforce assignment thereby increasing employee morale. Such management techniques can even be utilized to provide incentives or stimulate competition in the workforce to be rewarded with highly desirable assignments.

It is an additional object of the present invention to provide a cost efficient and user friendly solution for employers required to comply with Public Works required payroll reports which are jurisdiction specific as to content and format CPR criteria . By using relational database methods to integrate with standalone or payroll service bureau core payroll processing systems doing so without creating unneeded processing capacity integral to these systems which also may be used simultaneously for other employment sector payroll processing Applicant s process improves significantly the field of art.

It is a further object of the present invention to allow the user to generate reports which illustrate a pattern of compliance with Public Works payroll law for purposes of development of good reputation. For example this could be utilized when application is made under a formal awarding body pre qualification process for prime contractors and or subcontractors or in another example utilized in the management of a prime contractor which may require the selection from two or more specialty subcontractors a preferred subcontractor said management may view the selected subcontractor s historical pattern of compliance favorably and therefore include the selected subcontractor on a list of pre qualified contractors thereby enhancing the prime contractor s overall offering.

Similarly where a labor union and a contractor are interested in negotiating a contract for a variety of potential reasons the two may find useful in the negotiations an historical pattern of compliance along the lines of payroll rules and regulations. Also where a contractors association may wish to rank measure or represent that its members meet or exceed certain standards of compliance with prevailing wage laws apprenticeship ratio performance or illustrate that high compliance standards are regularly met in order to attract the most qualified and competitive workers such information and historical data has important significance. Another example of the import of such reporting would include a bonding company s interest in evaluating the risk profile of a Public Works contractor it may be considering as a client. A variety of reasons all of which are not contemplated herein may exist which derive value from the ability to confirm the compliance and other operational history of a prime or subcontractor. Applicant s method of measuring and reporting such historical compliance and operational standards goes beyond the prior art to a new level of utility in its field.

It is also an objective of Applicant s invention to provide its benefits to the contractor in a cost effective and efficient manner.

There are at least two primary scenarios where the use of Applicant s invention would financially benefit a PSB and thereby its clients.

The first is a contractor only payroll service where only contractor clients are served. In this scenario contractors may exclusively work on Public Works projects may exclusively perform private contracts or may perform work on each type of contract.

In one embodiment of Applicant s invention pricing for such a service might include a one time setup fee with a low continuing fee assessed for each work hour processed or in the case of very large projects a declining hourly assessment. One way this might be simply illustrated includes Contractor A wins a new project. Contractor A pays a one time 250 job setup fee to a payroll service bureau. The fee is in at least some part responsible to cover the costs of inputting required contract and employee information necessary to provide minimum certification and reporting requirements. Contractor A provides all such information about the project which is entered into the system by the service bureau. This information is essential in order to allow job specific reports to be generated and so that the system may correctly allocate per project prevailing wage costs such as actual wages paid insurances fringes training contributions and the like. After job set up the more applicable hourly assessment is appropriate to recover the cost of normal payroll processing along with a reasonable profit. Such a payment method avoids overcharging a contractor as in the case of a fee per manhour only basis which after setup costs are realistically liquidated early in the project continues to charge on an hourly basis at the same rate truly at some point overpaying the actual setup costs It does not take much sophisticated arithmatic to conclude that for a contract involving a significant number of man hours the assessment based on work hours processed may find the contractor paying the true setup cost many times over in comparison to the above initial scenario involving a set up fee and lower hourly assessment.

The above scenario may be contrasted with a non Public Works job having a lower one time setup fee e.g. 100 setup and then an appropriate charge per manhour. The setup fee is cheaper because there are no certified payroll report requirements but he processing is still complex because it intersects with the processing of payroll for all of the contractor s projects and the gross pay deductions and fringes are all still required to be calculated and processed.

For very large projects as in the first scenario a setup fee may be charged with a declining per hour processed assessment to further prevent excess charges for payroll processing which by virtue of the size of the total number of manhours expected to be expended will continually rise. The lowest assessment in the end would truly reflect the true cost of payroll processing including a profit margin.

For the PSB which wants to add Public Works contractors to its stable of clients another embodiment of Applicant s invention provides for an add on billing feature employing an established per check or per report e.g. 1099 s federal 942 s W 2 s etc. fee based upon which all payroll service clients are billed. When a contractor client is involved in a Public Works contract the contractor may instead or in addition pay the payroll service a per CPR or per hour fee. The fee would reflect a minimum threshold cost recovery as in the initial scenario above but is more directly tied to the number of reports required again efficiently charging for necessary payroll processing without overcharging the client.

The advantage of Applicant s per hour billing mode is in its utility for contractors who are in a very special type of market i.e. the Public Works arena the private work arena or a combination of the two and have an incentive to price any overhead fees directly onto its estimate of the project being bid. If the contract is not won the cost is not incurred. If the contract is won the cost is directly accounted for in the labor burden category and the cost to the government agency is known to be appropriate and at a rate commensurate with the amount of labor time applied without concern for being overcharged for the extra payroll processing service. Whereas the first discussed setup fee scenario enables both the contractor and PSB to capture appropriate fees necessitated by required reporting it does not penalize the contractor who performs small contracts where the use of a per hour billed price would be disadvantageous. As well the per hour billing method allows the cost of a larger contract to be spread out over the length of the contract measured by the expenditure of labor hours with no heavy up front charge necessary for smaller contracts.

In accordance with the capabilities of Applicant s system a fee structure driven essentially by the number of labor hours processed without significant setup or other fees would be possible where warranted or desired by the PSB client or SA user and usable by either PSB s with a mixed client base or a client base specifically targeted to contractors.

In summarizing Applicant s invention is designed to augment and support a core payroll processing system in accordance with the requirements of extensive Public Works construction contractor payroll processing and reporting rules regarding CPR criteria and in compliance with company specific policies and provisions and specific to various governmental jurisdiction requirements and needs provide specific reporting to alert the employer in order to enable project management decisions to be regularly made real time to assure continued future and final compliance with contract requirements to demonstrate the attainment and even exceeding of certain government agency objectives in the prosecution of work all the while providing meaningful data to allow the employer to manage its workforce to ensure high worker morale and cooperation all in a cost effective focused solution.

As seen in Applicant s preferred embodiment Public Works contractor payroll processing and reporting system relies on information carried in a variety of tables. Essential tables include by example contractor table which carries the various information pertaining to that Contractor or otherwise in the case of the PSB client or contractor. Project table carries the pertinent information for any given project and distinguishes between private sector or Public Works projects by virtue of the information contained therein.

As is usual as previously described in this disclosure when information sharing between programs or systems is required a version or versions of programming abstractions known as an Application Programming Interface hereinafter API or Application Binary Interface hereinafter ABI must be developed. As shown in API s ABI s acts as the conduit of information between at a minimum tables and and more depending on the extent of tables the user wishes to employ or must employ in order to conform with jurisdiction specific payroll and Public Works processing and reporting rules in Public Works contractor payroll processing and reporting system present invention and the separate core payroll processing capable system Stand Alone payroll processing engine or Payroll Service Bureau payroll processing engine SA PSB . The API s ABI s abstractions disclosed herein could be direct or web connection based.

Those in the art will understand that a Stand Alone payroll processing engine can comprise one computer or a group of several computers all functioning as a payroll processing system. And further those in the art will understand that a Payroll Service Bureau payroll processing engine can comprise a single computer server or several computer servers workstations and other data processing and storage machines working independently or in concert functioning as a computerized payroll processing system. Finally those in the art will understand that the present invention as represented as Public Works payroll processing and reporting system on also could comprise a plurality of data processing and data storage machines or media working together as one system.

API s ABI s interfaces with SA PSB which has its own report generator not shown . An overall report generator is also capable of generating reports equivalent to those which may be produced by SA PSB by virtue of sourcing the reportable information through API s ABI s is shown with its data flow paths.

For Public Works construction project payroll which is governed by prevailing wage laws there are at least four critical elements of raw related data input required for each employee payroll which is to be processed. These are worker project time worked broken down hourly per day and by classification of work. The input means and path of raw payroll data depends on the capacity and configuration of SA PSB . If SA PSB through it s existing data input means not shown can receive all the critical elements of raw data in it s independent capacity then the utility element of the present invention to receive the raw data for processing as well as transmission in part through API s ABI s into the core payroll processing system may remain unutilized. In that case the present invention system can receive the necessary raw data through the API s ABI s and both verify as acceptable and incorporate it into it s augmenting and supporting process. If the raw data entering through SA PSB is not deemed acceptable by the process in present invention an alert can occur to signal the unacceptability so correction may be made. However if SA PSB is not able to receive the critical raw payroll input data in such a way that it may be transmitted properly into the present invention through API s ABI s or if the user determines it is a preferred configuration to have the raw data brought in through present invention then interface may be provided to accept information from some sort of time record including but not limited to a time sheet by means of data entry device computer keyboard and mouse which may be connected to the system directly wirelessly in a local area network or through the interne. A third alternative raw data input path is data entry device which may also be linked in a more direct way with SA PSB depending as stated above on it s configuration and capacity through API ABI . Other means for inputting data via interface into the system and therefore also SA PSB if desired include wireless time recorders currently in use in the field handheld PDA s with appropriate software and either wired or wireless capabilities and other data entry methods commonly employed in the field.

In the case of raw data input which enters the system through interfaces and and subsequently is further processed and stored in tables and data may subsequently flow directly from tables and or through API s ABI s to SA PSB. Processing of the data can then occur in the core payroll system. Core payroll process SA PSB resulting data can flow back to tables and report generator as well as to all other tables modules stores interfaces and other components of present invention in order that elements of the core payroll process can be combined with elements of the present invention process to create for example CPR s which comprehensively satisfy the CPR criteria requirements under the jurisdiction in which the project happens to be.

Data flow path may provide information via interface unless said information is uploaded into table via data flow path which may transmit information from SA PSB not shown via API s ABI s also not shown .

Hence Applicant s invention provides that information may be input into all relational tables as shown in tables and via for example data entry means through interface or by virtue of using predetermined table field names compatible or recognized by API s ABI s may be uploaded or sourced from any existing SA PSB tables or data fields. Therefore the transfer or entry of data may be accomplished on either side of API s ABI s i.e. through Applicant s system or through the SA PSB. Each table and the report generator has data paths allowing the exchange of such information either through API s ABI s or via interface .

Also contained in table is contractor client bank information including account numbers wire transfer information etc. Although SA PSB generally processes and stores this particular data it is an element of payroll record CPR criteria critical to most if not all jurisdiction CPR rules and depending on the capability and difficulty of capturing the discrete data from SA PSB by Report Generator this portion of the data store table may be utilized in redundant data sharing and storing fashion.

If data exists in field then the SA PSB treats the project as a Public Works project and performs contractor desired comparisons to generate useful reports as described above and in addition produces Certified Payroll Reports or CPR s as required by the appropriate jurisdiction. If field is void of data then the CPR does not generate thus preventing general information clutter saving paper and or digital memory when payroll for an employee working on a project which does not require a CPR is processed.

Line represents a separation between report generators and . Report generator is comprised of the standardized core payroll reporting independently caused by the SA PSB . These reports generally financial in nature would be generated without augmentation or communication with Applicant s invention. Therefore in the example and preferred embodiment described herein reports et. al. are redundant data stores containing the precise report generation data resulting from the core payroll process. To avoid duplication of report generation of this information the actual creation of some or all of reports et. al. may be in inactivated. Generator represents the portion of report generator which provides customized reports et al. including but not limited to labor class ratios apprentices as a function of journeymen the all important certified payroll report preference report showing performance against contractor established goals for comparison with governmental hiring objectives manpower leveling report which may aid contractor in assuring fair work allocation among its employees billing summary report which allows the user to monitor the time quantity based cost of payroll processing e.g. an amount per hour of each worker s time which is processed for payroll and aids in recovering costs where contractually allowed e.g. Time and material type change order increases to original scope of work in contract or subcontract and fringe benefit statement which details fringe benefit trust funds or other accounts utilized by the contractor. Data path is represented as crossing bifurcation line such that required data of the core payroll process redundantly stored in the sector may be integrated into the reports generation process. Data paths and may in unison or individually allow for relevant data which may or may not be redundantly available from SA PSB through API s ABI s to be incorporated into the tables for efficient processing and production of reports such as CPRs with the precise CPR criteria required for the individual project under the individual jurisdiction rules.

In the preferred embodiment Applicant s inclusion of relational tables containing project and contractor specific information capable of being shared with a PSB or SA core payroll data processing system such that standard as well as custom or certified reports may be generated constitutes a significant step forward in the capability to generate government required certified prevailing wage reports for the small medium and even large government Public Works or mixed Public Works and privately funded project contractor with additional proactive project management capabilities all at reasonable and predictable cost which can be estimated accurately by the contractor during their pre bid analysis of the cost to complete a given project and thereby add the payroll processing cost in to the estimate and bid amount.

While the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered the most practical and preferred embodiment s it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the appended claims.

