---

title: Active optical limiting semiconductor device and method with active region transparent to light becoming opaque when not biased
abstract: An optical switching system comprising an embodiment with a high pass filter operable to eliminate a portion of frequencies present in an image and an optical device operative to receive the spectrally modified image from the high pass filter, alternatively amplify the spectrally modified image, and propagate at least those frequency components in the spectrally modified image exhibiting a frequency less than an absorption frequency of the optical switching device when the optical switching device is active. Alternatively, the optical switching system may transmit an image only when the system is active. The optical switching system may, for example, comprise superluminescent light emitting diodes which may be, for example, formed in the shape of an inverted truncated prism. For human viewing purposes, the operative transmission ranges may closely coincide with the maximum sensitivity of the photopic response of the corresponding red, blue and green cones in human eyes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09051177&OS=09051177&RS=09051177
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09051177
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081027
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present disclosure generally relates to optical switching devices. An embodiment is directed to an active optical switch using a compound semiconductor for protecting a light sensitive object from damage due to an incident light beam by limiting the exposure to a predetermined narrow wavelength range with an adaptable exposure time.

Optical switching devices may be classified as either passive or active optical switches. Typically a passive optical switch receives incoming light and changes state based upon the received light some employing photon absorption for activation and others all optical components and organic dyes. An example of an optical switch acting as a limiter employing photosensitive compositions is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 652 778 778 patent to Twarowski. The 778 patent discloses a reversible thermochromic optical switch that incorporates a thermochromic material which is transparent to light at ambient temperature but turns to a colored state when incident laser radiation causes localized heating thereby reversibly limiting the transmission of laser radiation. A further example of a passive optical switch acting as a limiter is found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 737 102 to Asher which disclosed the use of charged particles in a surrounding medium wherein inclusions are added to either the particles or the medium that have a highly nonlinear refractive index. Upon high intensity radiation the refractive index changes. In another embodiment a nonfluorescent photoabsorptive dye is incorporated into either or both the particles or medium. Upon being impinged with high intensity radiation the dye absorbs photons. The drawbacks of passive devices include limited dynamic range and the threshold for operation may be intolerably high effectively preventing the device from performing its intended function.

In contrast to passive optical switching active optical switches are activated and or deactivated by a power signal. An example of active optical switching is found in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 128 115 to Shiragaki entitled Optical Switch Device. The 115 patent discloses an optical switching device comprising a plurality of multi functional wavelength converters in which an input terminal and an output terminal are connected to optical divider and optical coupler wherein a wavelength converter is operative only when a current flows through a semiconductor optical amplifier in the wavelength converter. By turning on off the current flowing through the semiconductor optical amplifier in the wavelength converter the wavelength converter functions as a gate switch.

Although optical switches may be employed in telecommunications and fiber optic technologies active optical switches are not typically employed in the transmission of images in an original un encoded state as is readily accomplished with a passive device.

Group III V semiconductor compounds such as indium gallium nitride semiconductors used in connection with light emission devices are well known. For example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 649 440 to Krames et al. hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein there is disclosed a light emitting diode LED formed from various Group III V semiconductor compounds. One embodiment of the LED disclosed in the 440 patent includes a thick multi layered epitaxial structure comprising an upper and lower AlGaInN region and an active region therebetween which may be formed of indium gallium nitride. The 440 patent is directed to increasing the luminous intensity of the emitted light. Heretofore semiconductor compound devices have not been employed in limiting the intensity of a beam of radiation in connection with the an actively switched optical limiter which absorbs or reduces the intensity of a laser light beam and which is portable reliable and durable

The present disclosure generally relates to optical switching systems and methods including applications involving optical switches acting as limiters which may be operator activated for precise exposure intervals to provide a reliable visual image without prolonged exposure to harmful radiation. A representative embodiment of a system includes a semiconductor light filter for eliminating predetermined wavelengths present when light such as a laser beam is being scanned by the operator. This results in what will subsequently be called a spectrally modified image. The system may further comprise an actively switched optical imaging device that receives the image from the filter amplifies the spectrally modified image and propagates at least those components in the spectrally modified image exhibiting frequencies less than the absorption frequency of the optical switching device when the optical switching device is active.

A representative embodiment of a such method can be broadly summarized by the following steps eliminating components within an image exhibiting frequencies within a certain frequency range or below a first frequency value transmitting the spectrally modified image to an optical switching device amplifying the image via the optical switching device propagating components present in the image having certain frequencies within the transmission band of the limiting device when the limiting device is active and transmitting the image to a sensory array or a receiver which may include a human operator. By controlling the exposure time to certain frequencies of radiation through an operator activated switch the harmful effects of such radiation may be curtailed or eliminated depending upon the application and receiver. For example upon detection of harmful radiation a viewer or operator may selectively screen the harmful radiation by selectively activating the optical switching device. Alternatively the operator may limit the radiation exposure to a scanning array by manually or automatically activating the optical switching device to selectively limit the exposure time or the intensity of the light received. In an active system the exposure time is not limited to the characteristics of the device or inherent operational constraints of the device as in prior art passive devices but instead is operator controlled.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The present disclosure generally relates to optical switching systems and methods. In particular an optical switch acting as a limiting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure comprises a high pass optical filter that receives an image and eliminates low frequency components present in the received image. For such an embodiment after the image is filtered the spectrally modified image is focused onto a semiconductor device that may be active or inactive. If the semiconductor device is active the semiconductor device amplifies and propagates the image. In this regard the amplified image is preferably transmitted to a sensor array for detection and utilization. When the semiconductor device is deactivated the image is no longer provided to the sensor array or receiver. In such a construction the activation or exposure time of the optical limiter is not dependent upon the chemical characteristics or inherent qualities of the components of the device as with passive prior art devices. Instead the duration of the exposure may be controlled by the operator or may be automatically controlled by a light intensity sensor.

The system further comprises a focusing lens and a semiconductor device in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The focusing lens receives the image from the high pass filter and focuses the image into the semiconductor device which is described further herein with reference to .

The semiconductor device propagates the spectrally modified image to a focusing lens if the semiconductor device is active e.g. power is applied to the semiconductor device . In addition to propagating the spectrally modified image the semiconductor device may also amplify the spectrally modified image .

The spectrally modified and alternatively amplified image is then focused onto a spatial filter via a focusing lens . As the spectrally modified image passes to the focusing lens from the semiconductor device the image may contain spatial noise due to spontaneous emission from . An optional spatial filter may be utilized preferably comprising one or more optical components not shown e.g. a lens and a pinhole for removing the undesirable spatial noise from the image . The spatial filter may consist of for example a circular or rectangular plate with a hole in the center approximately 50 m in diameter. The hole may be larger or smaller to maximize transmission and to eliminate off axis light rays. Thus the optional spatial filter is adapted to remove any undesirable optical noise resulting from the semiconductor device .

Note that focusing lenses and are also optional and may be any type of lens series of lenses and or mirrors known in the art or future developed for focusing the image . In this regard any type of focusing device may be used to focus the image onto the semiconductor device or onto the spatial filter . Further note that the spatial filter may be any type of spatial filter known in the art or future developed that removes the unwanted spatial noise present in the image due to spontaneous emission in and or abnormalities in the focusing lenses and .

The spatial filter passes the image to an optional collimating lens . The collimating lens transforms the image into parallel beams of light. In this regard the lens collects the light corresponding to the image from the spatial filter and propagates the image to a sensor array . Notably the sensor array is used to detect the image received from the collimating lens. However it is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternatively other sensing devices or receiving devices may be utilized including for example an image receiver or viewer an opaque screen or under certain conditions the image may be viewed by a human in conjunction with or in place of the sensor array.

The semiconductor device depicted in is a truncated inverted pyramid TIP superluminescent light emitting diode LED . Generally speaking a superluminescent diode SLD is an edge emitting semiconductor light source based on superluminescence. In general superluminescence occurs when the spontaneous emissions of an electroluminescent light emitting diode ELED experience gain amplification due to higher injected currents and reflections from facets. In general superluminescent diodes resemble lasers but have no built in optical feedback mechanism required by laser diodes for stimulated emission to occur in order to achieve lasing. Superluminescent diodes have structural features similar to those of ELEDs that suppress the lasing action by reducing the reflectivity of the facets.

The semiconductor device comprises an electrical contact which may be constructed of approximately 1 m silver protected with 50 nm aluminum oxide that is surrounded by a single or multilayer anti reflection coating of a standard antireflection dielectric material such as but not limited to magnesium fluoride or calcium fluoride. An electrical conductor may be directly affixed to reflector contact by a solder contact . Other forms of electrical transmission could be utilized in the place of electrical conductor as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. In order to activate the semiconductor device a user may apply a forward direct current DC bias positive on reflector contact negative on reflector contact from electrical conductor to the reflector contact . The semiconductor is situated upon a heat sink . This will be subsequently referred to as a forward bias .

Note that the superluminescent LED may be implemented to receive an image from the high pass filter and propagate the image while amplifying the image as well. Furthermore the superluminescent LED may switch from active to inactive with a sub nanosecond response time.

The semiconductor device is a heterojunction structure comprising an active region . By way of background a heterojunction structure refers to a semiconductor that is fabricated using alternating layers of dissimilar semiconductor material and each alternating material exhibits a different bandgap. A bandgap of a material is the energy difference between the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band of the semiconducting material. This results in efficient confinement and recombination of the electrons and holes in the active region and prevents unwanted recombination outside of the active region. Recombination is the neutralization of a positively charged hole absence of electron with an electron resulting in the emission of a photon light .

The semiconductor device comprises a p n junction constructed from an III V semiconductor. Examples of Group III V semiconductor compounds include AlGaInN InP InAs GaAs GaP InGaAs and InGaAsP GaN and GaInN.

The active region may comprise for example a GaInN compound semiconductor which is direct semiconductor having a sharp absorption edge. The n and p type regions may be formed from GaN in a manner similar to that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 649 440 where ohmic contacts forward bias a multilayered Group III V semiconductor epitaxial LED which causes holes to be injected into the active region from the upper p type region and electrons to be injected into the active region from the lower n type region. Within the quantum well s of the active region which may be indium gallium nitride the injected holes and electrons recombine which results in an excited state.

In the embodiments of in an excited state the active region becomes substantially transparent to the wavelength interval . It is noted that the wavelength interval of transparency is the same wavelength interval for emission in the excited GaInN semiconductor. When the device is turned off emission ceases and the junction becomes highly absorbing. The off switching speed can be in the picosecond range particularly if the device is heavily biased. The extinction coefficient of the unexcited semiconductor may be approximately 10m depending on the application and materials utilized.

In the embodiments shown in the active region may consist of a multiple quantum well structure which is surrounded by two confinement regions n type semiconductor such as n GaN and p type semiconductor such as p GaN .

The semiconductor device further comprises the reflector contact described herein with reference to and reflector contact . In this regard to activate the semiconductor device a forward bias is applied through the reflector contacts and .

The semiconductor device further comprises the heat sink constructed of a rectangular or circular block of a thermally conductive material such as copper. The heat sink absorbs heat emitted from the semiconductor device . The heat sink reduces the risk that the semiconductor device will increase in operating temperature and damage the device or quit operating correctly. In addition the semiconductor device further comprises the anti reflection coating through which an image may be outputted in a manner described further herein.

When a forward bias as previously defined is applied to the reflector contacts and electrons flow in the direction indicated by reference arrows into the active region . The electrons are negatively charged. Furthermore holes i.e. the absence of electrons are positively charged and flow into the active region in the direction indicated by reference arrows . When the forward bias is applied to the reflector contacts and population inversion occurs in the semiconductor device . Population inversion refers to the state of the semiconductor device wherein there are at a given time a non equilibrium concentration of electron hole pairs in the active region . In this state the Bernard Duraffourg inversion condition is satisfied e.g. E E hv where Eand Eare the quasi Fermi levels of the conduction and valence bands and hv is the photon energy respectively. Thus the device may amplify the image that is transmitted through the active region of the semiconductor device . If minimal feedback is provided the device will operate in the superluminescent LED regime and the bandwidth will be on the order of kT where k is Boltzmann s constant and T is the ambient device temperature. Thus as an example at 300 K the semiconductor device may exhibit a bandwidth of approximately 3.6 nanometers nm . This bandwidth will increase as more holes and electrons are injected into the device.

The device may be shut off by a high speed photodetector not shown whereby the carriers are swept out of the active region very rapidly by the high residual field from the forward bias in less than a nanosecond. The active region becomes opaque to the wavelength interval exhibiting an extinction coefficient of up to approximately 10m. Approximately twelve passes through the unexcited active region may be required to limit an incoming laser pulse. The attenuation through the unexcited junction is described in the equation exp where I equals the image intensity after passing through the unexcited active layer Io is the initial image intensity is the absorption coefficient of the unexcited active layer 10m and L is the thickness of the active region 0.75 10m and x is the number of passes through the active layer. For optimal results the entire device must be placed within an optical system that permits rejection of the spontaneous emission from the TIP LED limiting device from the desired image.

During operation in the embodiment of the image passes through the high pass optical filter described hereinabove. In this regard the high pass optical filter allows only those optical frequency components within the image above a particular frequency to propagate to the semiconductor device . Furthermore the semiconductor device through band to band absorption allows only those optical frequency components within the image below a particular frequency to be transmitted to the focusing lens . Thus the system limits transmission of frequencies within the image that fall within a particular frequency band hereinafter v or wavelength in a manner described further herein.

The focusing lens focuses the image onto the anti reflection coating of the semiconductor device . When the device is active i.e. a forward bias as previously described is applied to the reflector contacts and the population inversion in the active region renders the device transparent to the desired v or . The image travels through the active layer of the semiconductor device a plurality of times as it reflects off the reflective reflector regions and which may be for example silver or any suitable heavily metal e.g. Ag Au Mg doped conductive layer which reflects light within the applicable wavelength range. As the image passes through the active region the image may further be amplified by the population inversion that exists in the semiconductor device . The unattenuated spectrally modified image exits the device via the anti reflection coating and continues through the system as described with reference to .

When the electrons and holes are no longer moving to the active region the active region is now opaque to the frequency interval i.e. it becomes an inactive region. The device may exhibit an extinction coefficient for example of 10m. In this regard the extinction coefficient refers to the depletion of irradiance or fluence per unit length.

Notably as the spectrally modified image continues to propagate through the device the image reflects off the reflective reflector contacts and which may be a coating or layer of silver or a conducting reflecting material. As the image passes through the region which is now opaque to the frequencies received in the image the intensity of the spectrally modified image diminishes with each pass. In this regard as the spectrally modified image passes through the region the spectrally modified image attenuates such that the spectrally modified image does not exit via the anti reflection coating .

Furthermore the plot depicts the frequency transmission response of the semiconductor device . In this regard the semiconductor device or as shown in exhibits sharp absorption edges . Thus the semiconductor device does not pass any components of the spectrally modified image having frequencies that are greater than v.

Thus when the semiconductor device is in the active state the system exhibits a bandwidth v that is centered about the frequency v. In this regard the system allows through those frequency components of the spectrally modified image that exhibit a frequency within the range of vto vto propagate.

However when a forward bias is no longer applied to the reflector contacts and of the semiconductor device the semiconductor device exhibits a frequency transmission response as indicated by plot . In this regard when the forward bias is not applied to the semiconductor device the active region becomes highly absorbing changing the absorption edge from the as depicted in . Thus any components in the spectrally modified image having frequencies within the v interval centered on v will be blocked. As noted hereinabove the extinction coefficient of the inactive semiconductor device is approximately 10m.

The system transmits the spectrally modified image to an optical semiconductor device e.g. a compound semiconductor device in step . The system may focus the spectrally modified image onto the semiconductor device via a focusing lens .

If the semiconductor device is active in step the system amplifies the spectrally modified image via the semiconductor device in step . The system propagates those frequency components present in the image that exhibit frequencies below an absorption edge of the semiconductor device in step and transmit the spectrally modified image to a sensor array in step . If the semiconductor device is not active in step the semiconductor device attenuates the spectrally modified image in step and the spectrally modified image is not propagated to the sensor array.

The image is then propagated through each of the LEDs and corresponding active regions . As the image is propagated through each LED the image may be amplified by population inversion. Further frequencies present in the image that are below the LEDs absorption edges are propagated while any other frequencies present in the spectrally modified image are absorbed by the LEDs . Notably the spectrally modified image leaves the array of LEDs amplified and filtered.

As the image propagates through each active region of each LED the image attenuates. Thus after passing through each of the LEDs the image is extinct. Notably switching from the excited active region to the unexcited active region may occur on a sub nanosecond time scale.

The present invention can be used as a single pass laser modulation device provided sufficient population inversion exists in the active region. The use of a truncated inverted pyramid LED provides the capability of a subnanosecond response to an incoming laser threat and the use of an active limiting device in general provides the possibility of image amplification.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples among others of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and protected by the following claims.

