---

title: Magnetic resonance imaging apparatus and magnetic resonance imaging method
abstract: An image in which an area of interest on an image is optimally susceptibility-emphasized is obtained in susceptibility-emphasized imaging. A measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled in accordance with the size of a desired area of interest of an examinee. Preferably, a target frequency in a K space is determined in accordance with the size of the area of interest, and the measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled so that an echo signal corresponding to the target frequency is measured at a target echo signal or in the neighborhood of the target echo time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081075&OS=09081075&RS=09081075
owner: HITACHI MEDICAL CORPORATION
number: 09081075
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081216
---
The present invention relates to a technique for obtaining a susceptibility emphasized image at high speed by using a magnetic resonance imaging hereinafter referred to as MRI apparatus for obtaining a tomogram of an examination site of an examinee by using nuclear magnetic resonance phenomenon.

The MRI apparatus uses uniform magnetostatic field and the magnetostatic field locally varies due to the magnetic susceptibility of an examinee. The effect of the local magnetic field variation appears as phase variation in image data. There is known an imaging method for emphasizing this phase variation through calculation processing hereinafter referred to as susceptibility emphasized imaging patent document 1 . Attention has been paid to this susceptibility emphasized imaging as an effective method to MR angiography of vein because the magnetic susceptibility can be emphasized based on deoxy hemoglobin in blood.

However the susceptibility emphasized imaging uses the phase variation caused by the magnetic susceptibility and thus it requires an echo signal at the time point when about 70 ms elapses from the irradiation time of an RF pulse. Therefore the repetitive time TR of a pulse sequence hereinafter merely abbreviated as sequence cannot be set to a short time and thus the imaging time is increased.

Furthermore a method of measuring plural echo signals with one RF pulse shot is known as a method of shortening the imaging time in the MRI apparatus and an echo planar EPI method and a first spin echo FSE method are known as representative methods. An example of the susceptibility emphasized imaging using the echo planar method to shorten the imaging time of the susceptibility emphasized imaging is disclosed in patent document 2 .

However when the echo planar method is applied to the susceptibility emphasized imaging information of an echo signal which is measured after lapse of a different time from the RF pulse irradiation is mixed with the phase variation of the image data.

Therefore there is an unsolved problem that the emphasized effect based on the magnetic susceptibility is dispersed to the whole image and thus it is impossible to obtain an image in which an area of interest on an image is subjected to optimal susceptibility emphasizing.

Therefore the present invention has an object to obtain an image in which an area of interest on an image is optimally susceptibility emphasized in susceptibility emphasized imaging.

In order to attain the above object the present invention controls a measuring order of plural echo signals in accordance with the size of a desired area of interest of an examinee. Preferably a target frequency in a K space is determined in accordance with the size of the area of interest and the measuring order of the plural echo signals is controlled so that the echo signal corresponding to the target frequency is measured at a target echo time or in the neighborhood thereof.

Specifically an MRI apparatus of the present invention is characterized by comprising a measurement controller for controlling measurement of plural echo signals from an examinee on the basis of a predetermined pulse sequence and a calculation processor for obtaining an image of the examinee on the basis of K space data in which data of plural echo signals are disposed in an K space wherein the measurement controller controls a measuring order of plural echo signals in accordance with the size of a desired area of interest of the examinee.

Furthermore an MRI method according to the present invention is characterized by comprising a measuring step of measuring plural echo signals from an examinee on the basis of a predetermined pulse sequence and a calculation processing step of obtaining an image of the examinee on the basis of K space data in which data of plural echo signals are disposed in an K space wherein the measuring step controls a measuring order of plural echo signals in accordance with the size of a desired area of interest of the examinee.

As described above according to the MRI apparatus and the MRI method of the present invention an image in which an area of interest on an image is optimally susceptibility emphasized can be obtained in susceptibility emphasized imaging.

Respective embodiments of an MRI apparatus according to the present invention will be described with reference to the drawings. In all the figures to describe the embodiments of the present invention parts having the same functions are represented by the same reference numerals and the duplicative description thereof is omitted.

First an example of the MRI apparatus according to the present invention will be schematically described with reference to . is a block diagram showing the overall construction of an example of the MRI apparatus of the present invention. The MRI apparatus obtains a tomogram of an examinee by using the nuclear magnetic resonance NMR phenomenon and it comprises a magnetostatic field generating system a gradient magnetic field generating system a transmission system a reception system a signal processing system a sequencer and a central processing unit CPU as shown in .

The magnetostatic field generating system generates magnetostatic field in a space around an examinee so that the magnetostatic field is uniform in a body axis direction or in a direction perpendicular to the body axis. Permanent magnet type normal conduction type or superconduction type magnetic field generating means is disposed around the examinee .

The gradient magnetic field generating system gradient magnetic field generator comprises gradient magnetic field coils wound in three axial directions of X Y and Z and a gradient magnetic field power supply for driving each of the gradient magnetic field coils . The gradient magnetic field power supply for each of the coils is driven according to an instruction from the sequencer described later whereby gradient magnetic fields Gs Gp and Gf in the three axis directions of X Y Z are applied to the examinee . More specifically a slice selecting gradient magnetic field pulse Gs is applied to any one direction of X Y z to set a slice plane for the examinee and a phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse Gp and a frequency encode or readout gradient magnetic field pulse Gf are applied in the other two directions whereby position information in each direction is encoded into an echo signal.

The sequencer is a measurement controller for repetitively applying a radio frequency magnetic field pulse hereinafter referred to as RF pulse and a gradient magnetic field pulse at a predetermined sequence to control the measurement of the echo signal. The sequencer is operated under the control of CPU and transmits to the transmission system the gradient magnetic field generator and the reception system various kinds of commands for measure echo signals required to reconstruct the tomogram of the examinee to control these systems thereby controlling the measurement of the echo signals.

The transmission system irradiates an RF pulse to make atomic nucleus spins of atoms constituting a biomedical tissue of the examinee excite nuclear magnetic resonance and it comprises a radio frequency oscillator a modulator a radio frequency amplifier and a radio frequency coil at the transmission side. The radio frequency pulse output from the radio frequency oscillator is amplitude modulated by the modulator at a timing based on an instruction of the sequencer and the amplitude modulated radio frequency pulse is amplified by the radio frequency amplifier and supplied to a radio frequency coil disposed in proximity to the examinee so that the examinee is irradiated with the electromagnetic wave RF pulse .

The reception system detects an echo signal NMR signal emitted due to nuclear magnetic resonance of atomic nucleus spins constituting a biomedical tissue of the examinee and it comprises a radio frequency coil an amplifier an orthogonal phase detector and an A D converter at the reception side. An electromagnetic wave NMR signal of a response of the examinee which is induced by an electromagnetic wave irradiated from the radio frequency coil at the transmission side is detected by the radio frequency coil disposed in proximity to the examinee and amplified by the amplifier . Thereafter the electromagnetic wave is divided into orthogonal signals of two systems by an orthogonal phase detector at a timing based on an instruction from the sequencer and the signals are respectively converted to digital amounts by an A D converter and transmitted to the signal processing system . The echo signal converted to the digital amount will be hereinafter referred to as data of echo signal or echo data.

The signal processing system has external storage devices storing means such as an optical disc a magnetic disk and a display comprising CRT or the like. When echo data input from the reception system is input to CPU operation processor CPU executes operation processing such as signal processing image reconstruction displays a tomogram of the examinee as a processing result on the display and also records the tomogram into the magnetic disk or the like of the external storage device. CPU has a memory corresponding to a K space therein and stores the echo data into the memory. The description representing that the echo signal or the echo data are disposed in the K space means that the echo data is written and stored into the memory.

The operating system inputs various kinds of control information of the MRI apparatus and control information of the signal processing system and it comprises a track ball or a mouse and a keyboard . This operating system is disposed in proximity to the display and an operator interactively controls various kinds of processing of the MRI apparatus through the operating system while watching the display .

In the radio frequency coils and at the transmission side and the reception side and the gradient magnetic field coil are disposed in the magnetostatic field space of the magnetostatic field generating system in the space around the examinee .

Proton as a main constituent material of the examinee has been used as an imaging target spin species of the present MRI apparatus which has grown clinically popular. By imaging a spatial distribution of proton density or a spatial distribution of a relaxation phenomenon of an exciting state the shape or function of a head portion an abdominal area four limbs or the like of a human body is imaged two dimensionally or three dimensionally.

Next an example of the sequence of the echo planar EPI method provided to the MRI apparatus according to the present invention will be described with reference to . is a sequence chart showing a sequence shape of the echo planar method of a gradient echo type multi shot. Gs Gp and Gr represent the axes of a slice selecting gradient magnetic field a phase encode gradient magnetic field and a frequency encode gradient magnetic field and RF AD and Echo represent an RF pulse a sampling window and an echo signal.

Furthermore represents an RF pulse represents the slice selecting gradient magnetic field pulse represents a slice refocus gradient magnetic field pulse represents a phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse represents a phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse group represents a frequency dephase gradient magnetic field pulse represents a frequency encode gradient magnetic field pulse group represents a sampling window group and represents an echo signal group. The sequencer controls the transmission system the gradient magnetic field generating system and the reception system on the basis of the sequence chart to measure an echo signal.

In the echo planar method the sequencer measures one echo signal with respect to each readout gradient magnetic field pulse with changing the polarity of the readout gradient magnetic field pulse every irradiation of one RF pulse . This measurement is repetitively executed at a time interval repeat time TR and echo signals whose number is required for reconstruct an image are measured. The number of echo signals required to reconstruct an image is generally set to about 64 128 or 256 in accordance with a matrix of an image to be created. A numeral after hyphen represents a repeat number. shows a first sequence out of plural repeated sequences and the second and subsequent repeated sequences are the same as the first sequence and thus the description thereof is omitted. In the sequence diagrams described below numerals after hyphen has the same meaning.

As described above according to the echo planar method plural echo signals are measured by one RF pulse shot and thus an image can be obtained at a higher speed as compared with a sequence of measuring one echo signal by one RF pulse shot. In the case of six echo signals are measured by one shot of RF pulse and thus imaging can be performed at a sextuple high speed. A single shot type echo planar method in which all the echo signals required to reconstruct an image can be measured by one shot RF pulse can further increase the imaging speed.

Arrows in represent an echo signal measuring order in the K space data obtained by using the echo planar method and in this example echo signals are sequentially measured from the lower side to the upper side in the Ky axial direction that is from the negative side to the positive side called as sequential ordering . Lines solid line dashed line and one dotted chain line correspond to echo signal groups and measured at a repeat first of repeat second of repeat not shown and third of repeat not shown and each line represents that an echo signal is measured every two other lines in the Ky axial direction.

In a portion in which the arrow of each line advances in parallel to the Kx axis corresponds to an echo signal and six echo signals are contained in each line . The scan direction of the arrow at the echo signal position corresponds to the polarity of the readout gradient magnetic field pulse group . An interval in in the Ky direction between the arrows corresponds to the area of each phase blip gradient magnetic field and the start position of each line is changed by the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse whereby the K space can be arranged while the echo data are not overlapped with each other in the Ky direction.

With respect to the thus arranged two dimensional K space data two dimensional Fourier transform is applied to convert the data concerned to an image by CPU with respect to three dimensional K space data three dimensional Fourier transform is applied to convert the data concerned to a three dimensional image . With respect to the feature of the K space it has a feature that the influence of echo data in the neighborhood of the center Kx Ky 0 that is an echo signal measured at the phase encode of zero or a value near to zero exercises over the entire image. That is the feature of the echo signal data arranged in the neighborhood of the center of the K space is reflected to the contrast of the whole image.

With respect to the contrast of a local area in an image the spatial frequency is varied in accordance with the size of a target portion. For example the contrast of an area of one pixel size in an image is reflected by the contrast of the echo data of the highest spatial frequency area in the K space that is the echo signal measured at the maximum phase encode or at a near value . With respect to the contrast of an area of 10 pixel size in an image the contrast of data of 10 points from a higher spatial frequency in the K space contributes greatly.

Echo signals which are measured at timings different in lapse time from the application time point of the RF pulse hereinafter referred to as echo time as in the case of the echo planar method have different contrast information. Therefore in general the echo time and the areas of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse are adjusted by the sequencer so that echo data measured at a time at which it is required to be reflect to the contrast of an image are arranged in the neighborhood of the center of the K space.

Furthermore the peak value of the echo signal obtained in the MRI apparatus behaves like a curved line of after the RF pulse is applied. This contains signal attenuation caused by an effect that the phase of spins in the rotational plane which is uniform just after the RF pulse is applied is dispersed with time lapse and thus the echo signal is reduced and an effect that spins excited by the RF pulse are subjected to transverse relaxation that is Trelaxation . Accordingly the difference in peak value which is dependent on the echo time occurs in the echo signal group measured by the echo planar method.

Next the principle of the susceptibility emphasized imaging will be briefly described. A phase difference occurs in spins due to the difference of magnetic susceptibility and this phase difference is larger as the echo time is longer. When tissues different in magnetic susceptibility are mixed in one pixel of an image cancel of NMR signals occurs between the tissues in the pixel concerned due to the phase difference so that the signal intensity of the pixel concerned is reduced so called partial volume effect . An image which is emphasized with a susceptibility effect by using the partial volume effect is a susceptibility emphasized image. In order to enhance the susceptibility effect it is preferable to set such a long echo time that the phase difference of spins are as large as possible. As an example an echo signal at a time point when about 70 ms elapses is required. Therefore in the conventional susceptibility emphasized imaging the repeat time TR of the sequence cannot be set to be short and thus the imaging time is long.

Therefore the susceptibility emphasized image using the echo planar method described above is considered. However when they are merely combined information of echo signals of different echo times is mixed with the phase variation of image data. Therefore the emphasized effect based on magnetic susceptibility is dispersed to the overall image and thus weakened and thus there cannot be obtained any image in which the area of interest on the image is subjected to optimal susceptibility emphasizing.

The MRI apparatus of this invention solves this problem and embodiments of the MRI apparatus according to this invention will be described.

A first embodiment of the MRI apparatus and the MRI method according to the present invention will be described. According to this embodiment the measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled in accordance with the size of a desired area of interest of an examinee. That is the measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled in accordance with the size of an area of interest on an image so that an echo signal corresponding to the size of the area of interest concerned is measured at an echo time to which a desired susceptibility effect is reflected. In order to control the measuring order of plural echo signals the application order of the phase encode gradient magnetic field that is the position at which echo data is arranged on the K space is controlled. Specifically a target frequency in the K space is determined in accordance with the size of the area of interest and the measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled so that the echo signals corresponding to the target frequency are measured at or in the neighborhood of a target echo time set as an echo time for which a desired susceptibility effect is reflected.

This embodiment will be described with reference to . is a flowchart showing an example of an overall imaging processing flow according to this embodiment and is a flowchart showing particularly an example of a detailed processing flow of a processing part according to this embodiment in the processing flow of .

First an example of the overall imaging processing flow will be described with reference to the flowchart of . This processing flow is stored as a program in an external storage device and CPU or the sequencer reads the program into the memory to execute the program thereby performing the processing flow.

In step a site to be imaged is selected as in the case of normal imaging. An operator selects an imaging target site through an imaging target site selecting GUI displayed on the display for example. This step may be omitted.

In step parameters of the imaging sequence are set. As in the case of the step the operator sets imaging sequence parameters through a parameter setting GUI displayed on the display .

In step it is determined on the basis of the parameters set in step whether the imaging sequence is the susceptibility emphasized imaging or not. For example when the parameter setting GUI has a choice for the susceptibility emphasized imaging and the operator selects the choice concerned it may be determined that the susceptibility emphasized imaging is selected. Furthermore when the gradient echo type multi shot echo planar method is selected and actual TE echo time of phase encode zero is set to along value it may be determined that the susceptibility emphasized imaging is selected. This determination is performed by CPU .

In step when the susceptibility emphasized imaging is determined CPU sets the parameters required for the susceptibility emphasized imaging. The details of this step will be described later.

In step the imaging sequence is executed. On the basis of the parameters set in step in the case of the susceptibility emphasized imaging the sequencer also executes the imaging sequence on the basis of the parameters for the susceptibility emphasized imaging which are set in step and the imaging is executed thereby controlling the measurement of the echo signal. The details in the case of the susceptibility emphasized imaging will be described later. CPU writes the data of each measured echo signal into the memory corresponding to the K space of CPU . That is CPU disposes the measured echo data into the K space.

In step an image is reconstructed by using the K space data obtained in step . Specifically CPU executes Fourier transform on the K space data obtained in step to reconstruct the image. Specifically with respect to two dimensional K space data CPU applies two dimensional Fourier transform to convert the data concerned to a two dimensional image. With respect to three dimensional K space data CPU applies three dimensional Fourier transform to convert the data concerned to three dimensional image.

Next setting of parameters required for the susceptibility emphasized imaging of the step will be described with reference to . is a flowchart showing an example of the processing flow of the parameter setting required for the susceptibility emphasized imaging.

In step the size of an area of interest on an image target size is set. The setting of the target size can be performed as follows.

According to a first method CPU sets the target size on the basis of information which an operator inputs through the operating system . Specifically a pixel size number of pixels of an area of interest input by the operator is set as the target size. Or the actual size mm of the area of interest input by the operator may be set as the target size. For example as in the case of the MR angiography when the area of interest is a blood vessel the operator can set the target size by inputting the diameter of a target blood vessel. Or CPU may determine the pixel size or the actual size of the area of interest on the basis of input information of a figure diagram surrounding an area of interest which is drawn on an image by the operator thereby setting the target size. An example of setting GUI of the target size will be described later.

According to a second method the target size may be stored in an external storage device such as the magnetic disk every imaging target size in advance and CPU may read out stored data in accordance with a specified imaging target site to set the target size. For example the size of each site such as the diameter Radius of a blood vessel is little dependent on patient individual variation and thus the target size of each imaging target site can be uniquely set irrespective of patients. The details will be described with reference to a second embodiment described later.

In step the target frequency Target Frequency is set. CPU sets the position on the K space at which the echo data corresponding to the target size set in step should be arranged that is the target frequency.

As an example of the method of setting the target frequency when the target size is set on the basis of a pixel size Size the target frequency is calculated according to the following mathematical expression expression 1 by using an image matrix Matrix on the basis of the input information. Target Frequency Matrix 2 Size 1 expression 1 

Or when the target size is set on the basis of the actual size mm Radius of the area of interest CPU calculates the target frequency according to the following calculation from a field of view FOV for imaging and an imaging matrix Matrix . Target Frequency Matrix 2 Radius FOV Matrix 1 expression 2 

As described above the target frequency which is settled in accordance with the target size is set to any spatial frequency from the original point to the maximum spatial frequency in the Ky direction phase encode direction of the K space.

In step the target echo time is set. The target echo time is an echo time required to enable a desired magnetic susceptibility to be reflected to the phase information of the echo signal. The target echo time may be set through the operating system by the operator. Alternatively the target echo time of each imaging target site may be pre stored in the external storage device such as the magnetic disk in consideration of the magnetic susceptibility of each imaging target site and CPU may read out the stored data in accordance with the indicated imaging target site to set the target echo time. For example the target echo signal is set to 70 msec as an example as described above.

This step may be executed before the setting of the target size of the step described above. In short the target frequency and the target echo time may be set before the next step is started.

In step the measuring order of the respective echo signals is set. CPU sets the measuring order of the respective echo signals so that the echo signal of the target frequency set in step is measured at the target echo time set in step . CPU adjusts the application amount the area of the pulse waveform of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse so that imaging is executed in the set measuring order of the respective echo signals.

As described above in order to enable the echo signal of the target frequency to be measured at the target echo time it is necessary to change the measuring order of the respective echo signals. At this time it is preferable that echo data measured at a late echo time are arranged at a higher frequency side than the target frequency on the K space. As described above by arranging the data of the respective echo signals in the K space the phase variation near to the target echo time can be reflected to the structure within the size of the area of interest.

The foregoing description relates to an example of the processing flow of the parameter setting required for susceptibility emphasized imaging.

Next a case where the imaging executed in step is the susceptibility emphasized imaging based on the respective parameters required for the susceptibility emphasized imaging which are set as described above will be described in detail.

In step susceptibility emphasized imaging the susceptibility emphasized imaging is executed and an echo signal to which the susceptibility effect is reflected is measured. The sequence controls the measurement of the respective echo signals so that the measuring order of the echo signals is set to the measuring order set in step . That is the sequencer executes the imaging by using the gradient echo type multi shot echo planar method having the areas of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse which are adjusted in step and control the measurement of the respective echo signals.

In an example of the size of an area of interest is set to 6 pixels so that the target frequency suffixes of represent a first sequence and a second sequence. same as above is set to a spatial frequency of Ky 6 and shows K space data obtained when an echo for which the target echo time is the longest echo time that is echo number twelfth is set. Accordingly in with respect to the measuring order of the echo signal corresponding to the position in the Ky direction at the positive side the echo signals are obtained in the first sequence as follows 

At the position of Ky 6 the echo data of the echo number 12 measured at the target echo time are disposed. In the surrounding spatial frequency area echo data of echo numbers 11 and 10 measured at an echo time near to the target echo time are disposed and echo data are successively disposed in the order that the echo time of the echo data is farther away from the target echo time. In this measuring order the echo data for which the echo time is longest is disposed at the position of Ky 6 and thus the phase value of the area of about 6 pixels within the image reflects the phase value of the target echo time.

That is at both the positive and negative sides of the K space the absolute value of Ky and the echo number are coincident with each other. According to this measuring order the echo data for which the echo time is longest is disposed at the position of the highest spatial frequency in the K space and thus the phase value of the area of about 1 pixel within the image reflects the phase value of the target echo time. As described above the data disposed at the high spatial frequency side of the K space has meaning and feature which are inherent to this embodiment. Therefore the feature of the data is completely different from that of the K space data of the conventional centric ordering.

As is apparent from the above two examples the target frequency can be set to any spatial frequency from the origin to the maximum spatial frequency in the phase encode direction Ky of the K space. The sequencer controls application of the phase encode gradient magnetic field and the phase blip gradient magnetic field to control the measuring order of plural echo signals.

The foregoing description relates to the case where the step described above corresponds to the susceptibility emphasized imaging. According to the susceptibility emphasized imaging using the gradient echo type multi shot echo planar method based on the processing flow an image in which a desired area of interest having a target size is optimally susceptibility emphasized can be obtained.

Next an example of target size setting GUI described with reference to the step will be described with reference to . shows GUI displayed on the display when the susceptibility emphasized imaging is determined and represents an input unit for inputting the target size. The target size input through GUI can be applied to any one of the two calculation expressions expression 1 expression 2 .

With respect to the target size a case of inputting the absolute size in units of mm and a case of converting the absolute size to the number of pixels of an image and inputting it may be selected for example. Therefore they are switchable by using a unit setting button or the like as shown in . When an OK button is clicked by a mouse after the input the input target size is set.

As described above the operator can set the target size whereby the contrast of the susceptibility emphasized image can be matched with a desired site structure.

As described above according to the MRI apparatus and the MRI method of this embodiment in the susceptibility emphasized imaging using the gradient echo type multi shot echo planar method the measuring order of the respective echo signals is controlled so that the phase of the target echo time is most reflected to the echo signals of the target frequency corresponding to the target size that is the application of the phase encode is controlled to control the arrangement order on the K space of the respective echo data thereby obtaining an image in which a desired area of interest having the target size can be optimally susceptibility emphasized. As a result the contrast concerning the susceptibility emphasizing can be enhanced in the susceptibility emphasized image obtained by the susceptibility emphasized imaging of this embodiment.

A second embodiment of the MRI apparatus and the MRI method according to the present invention will be described. In this embodiment the first embodiment described above is expanded to three dimensional imaging. That is the measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled so that echo signals corresponding to a spatial frequency area located at the same distance from the origin of a Ky Kz space are measured in the same echo time range in a three dimensional space k space having a phase encode direction ky and a slice encode Kz direction. Specifically the spatial frequency area located in the same distance range from the origin of the Ky Kz space is selected as a target frequency and the measuring order of plural echo signals is controlled so that echo signals corresponding to the selected spatial frequency area are measured at or in the neighborhood of the target echo time. The target frequency can be set to any spatial frequency located at a distance range from zero to the maximum space frequency from the origin of the Ky Kz space. Only different points from the first embodiment described above will be described and description of the same points is omitted.

First in order to clarify the feature of this embodiment a conventional three dimensional gradient echo type multi shot echo planar method will be described with reference to . The difference between the three dimensional sequence shown in and the two dimensional sequencer shown in resides in that a slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse is subsequent to the slice selecting gradient magnetic field pulse . The other is the same as the sequence of and thus the description thereof is omitted.

Paying attention to the Kz direction the slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse is applied after the slice selecting gradient magnetic field pulse and thus no slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse exists when the echo signal group is measured. Therefore in the Kz direction echo signals of the same echo time are measured and there is no difference in echo time between the echo signals. Accordingly with respect to the phase of the high spatial frequency area which is important for the susceptibility emphasized imaging plural echo signals which are measured at different echo times are mixed in all the spatial frequency values in the Kz direction that is on a line parallel to the Ky axis direction at any Kz value . Therefore the emphasized effect based on magnetic susceptibility is dispersed and reduced in the z direction in the image so that no optimally susceptibility emphasized image can be obtained.

Next shows the three dimensional sequence of this embodiment. The difference from the conventional three dimensional sequence shown in resides in that a slice blip gradient magnetic field pulse is applied after the slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse . At this time the sequencer controls application of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse the slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the slice blip gradient magnetic field pulse so that echo data measured at the same time or in the same echo time range in the spatial frequency area located at the same distance or in the same distance range from the origin in the Ky Kz space that is the echo data are arranged concentrically. As shown in the control of application of the respective gradient magnetic field pulses to arrange data concentrically will be described later.

Furthermore according to this embodiment in the three dimensional measurement the measuring order of respective echo signals is controlled so that echo signals of the target frequency corresponding to the target size described with reference to the first embodiment are measured at the target echo time. Therefore the sequencer controls application of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse the slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the slice blip gradient magnetic field pulse so that the measuring order of the respective echo signals as described above is established.

In step an imaging target site is set may be omitted in step imaging sequence parameters of the three dimensional echo planar method shown in are set in step susceptibility emphasized imaging using the three dimensional echo planar method shown in is determined in step parameters required for the susceptibility emphasized imaging using the three dimensional echo planar method shown in are set and in step the K space data shown in are obtained by the three dimensional susceptibility emphasized imaging.

In step as in the case of the first embodiment in step the target size is set in step the target frequency is set in step a target echo time the longest echo time in the case of is set and in step the measuring order of respective echo signals is set so that the echo signals of the target frequency are measured at the target echo time. The application amounts of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse and the slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the slice blip gradient magnetic field pulse are set in accordance with the measuring order.

The processing contents of the respective steps are the same as the respective processing shown in described with reference to the first embodiment and the detailed description thereof is omitted.

The result of these series of processing is the K space data of . As described above the target frequency which is determined in accordance with the target size is set to any spatial frequency which is located at a distance in the range from zero to the maximum spatial frequency from the origin of the Ky Kz space.

In the K space data shown in obtained as described above echo data of a short echo time are arranged in the neighborhood of Ky 0 echo data measured at the target echo time in this case the longest echo time is arranged at the target frequency and at the outside of the target frequency echo data of a longer echo time are arranged to be nearer to the target frequency side that is the echo time is successively longer in the order of of the areas to of the K space .

As described above the measuring order of the respective echo signals is controlled so that the echo signals of the target frequency are measured at the target echo time whereby the same effect as the first embodiment can be obtained in the three dimensional susceptibility emphasized image. That is the echo signals of the target frequency are measured at the target echo time and also the echo data thereof are arranged in an area located at an equidistance from the origin of the three dimensional K. Therefore the phase variation is most strongly added to the image data of the three dimensional area of interest having the pixel size corresponding to the target frequency isotropically and equally in each of the three dimensional axial directions. As a result the three dimensional image in which the area of interest having the pixel size corresponding to the target frequency is most strongly susceptibility emphasized can be obtained.

Next an example of enhancing the efficiency of the data arrangement of each divisional area in the Ky Kz plane will be described. In the three dimensional sequence shown in the application amounts of the slice blip gradient magnetic field and the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse are constant and thus the K space is divided so that the widths in the radial direction of respective divisional areas are equal to one another. As a result the areas of the respective divisional areas are greatly different from one another. This means that echo data is arranged in each divisional area every echo time and thus the amount of echo signals required to be filled in each divisional area is different.

Therefore with respect to the width in the radial direction of the spatial frequency area which is located in the same distance range from the origin of the Ky Kz space the width at the high spatial frequency side is set to be smaller than that at the low spatial frequency side. Specifically a control method of controlling the application amount of at least one of the slice blip gradient magnetic field pulse and the phase blip gradient magnetic gradient magnetic field pulse to equally arrange data in respective divisional areas within the Ky Kz plane will be described with reference to .

As shown in the K space is divided so that the areas to of the respective spatial frequencies of the Ky Kz space have the same area that is the width in the radial direction of each divisional area is narrowed as the spatial frequency is shifted to a higher spatial frequency side that is the width in the radial direction of the divisional area is set to be smaller at the higher spatial frequency side than that at the lower frequency spatial frequency side whereby the amount of echo signals required to be filled in each divisional area is equal and thus the efficiency of the data arrangement is enhanced. With respect to a target frequency it is the same as of . shows an example of a three dimensional sequence to obtain the K space data as described above. As shown in the application amount of at least one of the slice blip gradient magnetic field pulse after the slice gradient magnetic field pulse and the phase blip gradient magnetic field pulse after the phase encode gradient magnetic field in the three dimensional sequence is reduced every blip that is as the echo number incremented in connection with the reduction of the width in the radial direction of each divisional area of the K space as the frequency area is shifted to the high spatial frequency side.

Finally the control of the application of the respective gradient magnetic field pulses so that the echo data which are measured at the same echo time or in the same echo time range are arranged in the spatial frequency area located at the same distance or in the same distance range from the origin in the Ky Kz space that is the data are arranged concentrically will be described hereunder with reference to .

Here when s represents a shot number 1 s S e represents an echo train number 1 e E and the size of the K space is Matrix as a sequence calculation an angle s for measuring echo signals every shot is calculated as follows. 2 expression 3 

Subsequently the K space pitch K between echo trains is calculated as follows. Matrix 2 expression 4 From these two values the area of the blip gradient magnetic field to be applied every shot is calculated on the basis of the steps of the K space in the Ky Kz directions at each shot cos sin expression 5 The Ky Kz space can be also filled under this state. However when the number of echo signals is small a displacement occurs in an echo signal measuring area in the K space and thus it is preferable that a start point to start measurement of an echo signal is shifted in the K space every shot. For example in the start point is shifted outwardly in the radial direction every three other shots in the displacement amount is represented by shading of the circles .

As described above the following calculation may be executed to measure echo signals. First a shift amount as a reference of the start point of the measurement at each shot is calculated. At this time when the shift amount is varied every N shots mod expression 6 Here A mod B represents the remainder when A is divided by B. On the basis of this start point S s the shift position Skx s Sky s of the K space at each shot is calculated by using the rotational angle s of each shot cos sin expression 7 The output of the phase encode gradient magnetic field pulse and the output of the slice encode gradient magnetic field pulse are changed on the basis of these values.

The foregoing description relates to the control of the application of each gradient magnetic field pulse to arrange data concentrically in the Ky Kz space.

As described above according to the MRI apparatus and the MRI method of this embodiment the effect of the first embodiment is also obtained in the three dimensional image. That is the measuring order of the respective echo signals and the arrangement on the K space of the data of the respective echo signals are controlled that is application of each encode gradient magnetic field and each blip gradient magnetic field is controlled in the three dimensional echo planar method so that the phase of the target echo time is most reflected to the echo signals of the target frequency corresponding to the target size. Therefore a three dimensional image in which a desired three dimensional area of interest having a target size is optimally susceptibility emphasized can be obtained.

Next a third embodiment of the MRI apparatus and the MRI method according to this invention will be described. According to this embodiment the K space is not divided into two parts at the positive and negative sides in the Ky direction of the K space to perform measurements at each side but echo signals at both the positive and negative sides are measured concurrently within one repeat of the sequence. Specifically plural echo signals are measured while the polarity of the phase blip gradient magnetic field in the case of two dimensional imaging or the polarity of at least one blip gradient magnetic field of the phase blip gradient magnetic field and the slice blip gradient magnetic field in the case of three dimensional imaging is alternately reversed. Only the different point from the first embodiment described above will be described and the description of the same point is omitted.

As described above the echo data which are measured substantially at the same time are arranged in the same spatial frequency area of the K space however signs are different by concurrently measuring the echo signals at both the positive and negative sides in the Ky direction within one repeat of the sequence without dividing the K space into two parts at the positive and negative sides in the Ky direction to perform the measurement at both the sides. Accordingly an image in which an area of interest having the size corresponding to the target frequency is susceptibility emphasized can be obtained.

Furthermore the sequences as shown in and can be combined with each other. For example it can be selected every shot which one of the orders is used. In this case the order may be selected so that the echo data of a target echo time are arranged in a target positive negative spatial frequency area.

The other points are the same as the first embodiment described above and thus the description thereof is omitted.

As described above according to the MRI apparatus and the MRI method of this embodiment in the susceptibility emphasized imaging using the gradient echo type echo planar method substantially the same effect as the first embodiment can be obtained by measuring both the echo signals at both the positive and negative sides in the Ky direction within one repeat of the sequence. Particularly when all the K space data are obtained by one sequence the same effect as the first embodiment can be obtained in a shorter time.

Next a fourth embodiment of the MRI apparatus and the MRI method according to the present invention will be described. In this embodiment the optimum target frequency is determined in accordance with the imaging target site. The different point from the first embodiment resides in that the imaging target site is selected and also the target size setting of the step and the target frequency setting of the step are executed on the basis of information pre stored every imaging target site. Only the different point from the first embodiment will be described and the description of the same points is omitted. This embodiment may be combined with each of the other embodiments.

First the selection of the imaging target site will be described. This step may be executed in the step or may be separately provided before the step and executed. The processing flow of this embodiment is identical to the processing flow shown in in the first embodiment however the content of the processing is different. An example of the processing flow of this embodiment when an imaging target site selecting step is separately provided in the processing flow of will be described hereunder. However the processing content of this step may be executed in the step with omitting the step .

In step the imaging target site is selected. The operator selects a desired imaging target site on a selecting GUI of the imaging target site. shows an imaging target site selecting window as an example of the selecting GUI of the imaging target site. Plural imaging target sites are displayed in a list style together with radio frequency buttons. shows an example in which head portions A and B abdominal parts A B and four limbs are displayed as options. The operator selects the radio frequency button of a desired imaging target site from these options. In the head portion A is selected. Finally the operator clicks the OK button by the mouse and CPU sets the option concerned as an imaging target site.

In step the target size is set on the basis of the information pre stored every imaging target site. In general the target size of each imaging target site can be statistically determined. For example as shown in a table for associating the target site or the imaging method for the imaging target site and the target size is prepared in advance and stored in the external storage device such as the magnetic disk . CPU reads out the target size corresponding to the imaging target site set in the step or the step from the table in step to set the target size.

The example of is a table in which rough minimum size and maximum size of an importable tissue targeted in the susceptibility emphasized imaging are stored every imaging target site. A merit that the minimum size and the maximum size are used resides in that the target frequency can be calculated for each size according to the expression 2 .

In step the target frequency is set on the basis of the target size read out from the table in step . When the minimum size Radius and the maximum size Radius of each imaging target site of are used the maximum Target Frequencyand the minimum Target Frequencyof the target frequency can be calculated as follows Target Frequency Matrix 2 Radius FOV Matrix 1 expression 8 Target Frequency Matrix 2 Radius FOV Matrix 1 expression 9 When the susceptibility emphasized imaging sequence is executed CPU sets the measuring order of respective echo signals so that echo signals in the range of these two target frequencies spatial frequencies are measured at the target echo time or in the neighborhood of the target echo time.

The foregoing description relates to the processing content inherent to this embodiment. The other points are the same as the first embodiment and thus the description thereof is omitted. Accordingly by merely selecting the imaging target site the operator can obtain an image in which the area of interest at the imaging target site is automatically optimally susceptibility emphasized.

In this embodiment the minimum target size and the maximum target size are used this embodiment is not limited to this style. For example an average target size may be used. In the case of the average target size only one target frequency corresponding to the value concerned is determined and the measurement order of respective echo signals is set so that the echo signals of the target frequency are measured at the target echo time.

Furthermore in this embodiment the table in which the target size is registered every imaging target site is prepared in advance and the target size is set by selecting an imaging target site. However a table in which the target size is registered may be prepared in advance not every imaging target site but every affection or every tissue name blood vessel name or the like so that the target size is set by selecting an affection or tissue name.

As described above according to the MRI apparatus and the MRI method of this embodiment in the susceptibility emphasized imaging using the echo planar method the target size of each imaging target site or the like is prepared in a table style in advance and the target size and the target frequency can be automatically set in accordance with the selection of an imaging target site or the like. Therefore an image in which a desired area of interest having a target size can be optimally susceptibility emphasized can be easily obtained.

