---

title: Ram booster
abstract: The present invention is a space launch system and method to propel a payload bearing craft into earth orbit. The invention has two, or preferably, three stages. The upper stage has rocket engines capable of carrying a payload to orbit and provides the capability of releasably attaching to the lower, or preferably, middle stage. Similar to the lower stage, the middle stage is a reusable booster stage that employs all air breathing engines, is recoverable, and can be turned-around in a short time between missions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08047472&OS=08047472&RS=08047472
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08047472
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080311
---
This application is a continuation in part to application Ser. No. 11 422 554 filed on Jun. 6 2006 now abandoned and applicants hereby request this priority date for all subject matter contained herein from said previously filed application.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to propelling a payload into low earth orbit more particularly to providing a booster first stage for a payload bearing rocket second stage going to low earth orbit and most particularly to providing a reusable all air breathing booster first stage for a payload bearing rocket second stage going to low earth orbit.

Most reusable space launch systems to date have employed two approaches 1 Single stage to orbit DCX or National Aero Space Plane or 2 Recoverable upper stage Space Shuttle . Problems with the first approach include the requirement for extremely high fuel mass fractions 90 of gross liftoff weight GLOW plus the need to put all of the vehicle structural mass into orbit with a very small payload mass fraction typically 

A third approach has also been suggested that employs a staged rocket system launched from a winged platform e.g. Pegasus XL launched from an L 1011 aircraft . While achieving reasonable payload mass fractions relative to the expendable rocket launcher portion because of physical sizing constraints this concept currently is limited to about 1000 lbs of payload to orbit and a fairly high specific launch cost lb .

In a further effort to overcome some of these deficiencies another approach is a reusable booster stage using a combination of a rocket propelled main stage and a pair of turbojet engines mounted on the main stage U.S. Pat. No. 6 817 580 . However this concept still results in numerous deficiencies including requirement for a plurality of different propellants low useable life for the main rocket stage requirement for reaction control devices for the main stage and increased turn around time for reuse due to the rocket engine main stage.

Therefore it is desired to provide a reusable launch system that has a relatively low launch cost decreased turn around time between launches and improved efficiency and safety characteristics over current reusable launch systems.

The invention proposed herein comprises a space launch system and method to propel a payload into earth orbit. The upper stage is a production expendable rocket designed to carry a payload. The lower stage is a booster that is reusable and powered completely by air breathing propulsion. Preferably the invention includes a middle stage that is also reusable and is also powered completely by air breathing propulsion. A main objective of the system and method is to significantly reduce the costs of propelling payloads such as satellites etc. into low earth orbit by employing a system that provides a reusable booster first stage with significantly increased user life and significantly decreased turn around time and maintenance compared to current systems.

Accordingly it is an objective of this invention to provide a space launch system that reduces turn around time compared to current systems between launches.

It is another objective to provide a space launch system of significantly reduced cost to propel a payload into earth orbit compared to current systems.

It is also an objective of this invention to provide lower and middle stages that employ a single type of fuel using air breathing engines with a high specific impulse.

It is a further objective of this invention to provide lower and middle stages that do not require a reaction control system.

This invention meets these and other objectives related to propelling payloads into low earth orbit by providing a reusable space launch system booster lower stage and preferably middle stage to help propel a payload bearing rocket upper stage into orbit around the earth. The lower or first stage comprises a cylindrical housing having a fuel tank containing fuel within the housing that is releasably attached to the stage above it. A drogue parachute and a plurality of main parachutes are stored in and releasably attached to the housing. A plurality of fins are attached to the outer surface of the housing to provide aerodynamic stability and control. Also a plurality of landing struts are attached to the fins for landing the reusable booster after each use. A plurality of air breathing engines are attached to the fins and struts radiating outwards from the housing. A portion of these engines located outboard of the other engines employ a system for deflecting the exhausts in tangential directions relative to the circumference of the center tank allowing directional and roll control at low speeds just after liftoff and during recovery. The air breathing engines are provided fuel through a connection with the fuel tank in the housing. A preferable middle or second stage comprises a cylindrical housing having a fuel tank containing fuel within the housing that is releasably attached to the lower and upper stages. A plurality of fins are also attached to the outer surface of the housing to provide aerodynamic stability and control. The middle stage also has a drogue parachute and a plurality of main parachutes stored therein and either a plurality of air breathing engines attached circumferentially around the housing or an annular air breathing engine surrounding the housing.

The present invention is a space launch system and method to propel a payload bearing craft into earth orbit. The invention comprises two or three stages. The upper stage primarily includes rocket engines propellant tanks and a payload volume and the upper stage provides the capability of releasably attaching to a lower or middle stage. The lower stage is a reusable booster stage that employs all air breathing engines is recoverable and can be turned around in a short time between missions. Preferably a middle stage is employed that is a reusable booster stage that also employs all air breathing engines that is also recoverable and can be turned around in a short time between missions. The invention is capable of being practiced using a majority of parts that are currently available off the shelf with minor modifications and these parts require significantly less maintenance and preparation between missions than current launch system parts systems. This results in the ability to dramatically increase the number of missions over time and significantly reduce the cost per mission.

Referring to the invention is a launch system comprising an upper stage of a production rocket engine that is capable of carrying a payload. A mating ring attaches releasably to the bottom of the upper stage . A first release mechanism is employed to disconnect the upper stage from the lower stage or preferably the middle stage . Preferably the first release mechanism comprises a pyrotechnic device that is actuated via computer control.

The lower stage is a booster stage that launches and propels the system to a selected point in the atmosphere prior to ignition of the upper stage . The lower stage comprises a housing that is preferably cylindrical in shape. A plurality of fins preferably with moveable tips are attached to the housing to provide aerodynamic stability and control to the launch system . A plurality of landing struts are attached to the fins to provide landing support to the lower stage. Preferably the landing struts employ shock attenuation and have landing pads at the end of each strut . Also a plurality of air breathing engines are connected to the fins in a configuration radiating outwards from the housing and parallel to its center axis. The air breathing engines should be configured so that propulsion when all of the engines are actuated is somewhat evenly distributed around the system . Those engines located furthest outboard from the system centerline also possess means for deflecting the exhaust in two dimensions such that directional and roll control of the system can be maintained in low speed flight for launch and recovery of the lower stage .

Preferably the invention also comprises a middle stage that is releasably connected to the upper stage via the mating ring and is releasably connected to the lower stage via a second mating ring . A second release mechanism is employed to disable the second mating ring to stage or disconnect the middle stage from the lower stage . Preferably the second release mechanism also comprises a pyrotechnic device that is actuated via computer control. The middle stage comprises a housing that is also preferably cylindrical in shape and most preferably similar in shape to the lower stage housing . A plurality of fins preferably with moveable tips are attached to the housing to provide aerodynamic control and stability to the launch system . A plurality of air breathing engines are connected around the middle stage housing so that propulsion when all of the engines are actuated is somewhat evenly distributed around the system . In the alternative a single annular air breathing engine surrounds the housing . These airbreathing engines will preferably be Ramjets with few moving internal parts and capable of operation between speeds of Mach 2.0 and Mach 4.0 or even higher.

Referring to and the invention also comprises fuel tanks within the housings and that carry fuel for the engines . Therefore the fuel tanks are connected to the engines in a manner to allow fuel from the fuel tanks to flow into the engines . The sizing and operation of the fuel tanks may be selected by one skilled in the art based upon the size of the housing the weight of the tanks and fuel and other launch requirements.

The lower and middle stages contain a descent mechanism to slow the descent of each stage so that they can be recovered for later use. Preferably the descent mechanism includes at least one supersonic drogue parachute or alternatively ballute that is releasably attached within the housings . The number and size of drogue parachutes employed in the invention may be selected by one skilled in the art based upon the weight of the lower and middle stages . A pair of first deployment mechanisms preferably explosive mortars are used to deploy the drogue parachutes . The first deployment mortars are preferably located inside the drogue parachute cavity within housings . The aft cover is detached from the housings when the first deployment mechanism is initiated to allow the drogue parachutes to be deployed. The first attachment release mechanism may be selected by one skilled in the art. One preferred example of an attachment release mechanism is an electrically actuated initiator that contains an explosive charge driven guillotine for cutting parachute risers to release a drogue chute . The first attachment release mechanism allows for the drogue parachutes to be jettisoned after use. The drogue parachutes are used for initial reduction in the descent speed of the lower and middle stages as described further below.

Regarding the preferable lower stage descent mechanism a plurality of main parachutes are releasably attached to the aft end of the housing . In a preferred embodiment four main parachutes are used in the invention. A second deployment mechanism preferably an electrically initiated pilot chute mortar is used to deploy a pilot chute that pulls a main parachute pack from within the housing . Each main parachute pack deploys into a main parachutes . Finally a second attachment release mechanism preferably similar to the first attachment release mechanism is used to jettison the main parachutes .

During descent the deceleration and pitch rotation of the lower stage occurs as follows. The drogue parachutes are jettisoned and the main parachutes opened at about 15 000 feet altitude. At about 7 500 feet altitude the lower stage is released from the deployed four main parachutes . At the instant of release a portion of the air breathing engines are at idle thrust and a portion of the air breathing engines have accelerated to partial thrust. The rotation for pitch up is accomplished by thrust vector control of the outboard turbofan engines that have been accelerated to partial thrust which have exhaust vanes to deflect the flow of exhaust gases. In addition to the thrust vector control of the lower stage the deceleration and pitch is augmented by aerodynamic control consisting of four all movable surfaces on the tips of the fins . The number and location of air breathing engines at idle thrust and at partial thrust may be determined by one skilled in the art. Preferably twelve air breathing engines remain at idle thrust and six air breathing engines accelerate to partial thrust.

At approximately 7 500 feet the pitch up maneuver starts immediately after the main parachute strap is pyrotechnically separated from its attach point at the aft end of housing . A rapid pitch up maneuver is instigated by cooperatively deflecting the exhaust of the outboard fanjet engines and simultaneously deflecting the all moving control surfaces comprising the outer tips of the fins .

After the lower stage has pitched up through an angle of more than 160 degrees to a tail down attitude all of the air breathing engines are accelerated to operating thrust without afterburner for a controlled vertical descent to touchdown. The lower stage descends to touchdown on a barge in the ocean or if sufficient fuel is allotted returns to the launch site for touchdown. The drogue and main parachutes all independently float to earth for recovery and re use.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the descent mechanism for the middle stage is similar to that of the lower stage except that the four main parachutes remain attached through splashdown and landing struts are not included in the middle stage . The pitch rotation maneuver following jettison of the main parachutes is not required for the middle stage because it splashes nose down into the ocean with main parachutes still attached. Middle stage drogue parachute cables and main parachute risers all attach to the aft end of the middle stage . All electronic boxes and electrical harnesses in the middle stage are encased and water proofed for protection from salt water during and following splashdown. The Ramjet engine s used on the middle stage are relatively impervious to the effects of water with almost no moving parts. The fuel tanks will be sealed off and slightly pressurized with inert gas after the ramjet engines shut down such that they also are not damaged by exposure to seawater and also provide buoyancy to keep this stage afloat until recovered.

For the lower and middle stages an onboard computer within the housing autonomously controls guidance navigation and flight control and onboard systems sequencing from pre launch until after touchdown of the reusable portion of the system . In a preferred embodiment of the invention selected system controls may be backed up by remote manual command up linked from the launch site. The specific control mechanisms and schemes may be selected by one skilled in the art employing currently used launch systems and devices.

Referring to the upper stage utilizes a production rocket engine capable of propelling a payload that preferably employs cryogenic fuels for propulsion such as liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen. A preferred second stage is the Centaur III which is powered by two rocket engines that provide 22 300 pounds of thrust each. Each of the two engines has a vacuum specific impulse of . In a prefened embodiment the upper stage will include a modified payload fairing which is an adapter to adjust the size of the payload compartment to carry a weight of payload mass and volume that matches the thrust and propulsion capabilities of the launch system . Propellants employed in the upper stage are preferably cryogenic hydrogen and oxygen.

Referring to in a preferred embodiment of the invention there are three fins evenly distributed around the housing . Preferably each fin has a moveable tip that provides for aerodynamic control at higher speeds.

The plurality of air breathing engines preferably comprise turbofan engines . In a preferred embodiment the turbofan engines are configured in a star configuration which for the purposes of this application is defined as the engines are positioned along each side of the fins radiating outwards from the housing . Preferably there are three turbofan engines positioned on each side of each fin each turbofan engine being parallel to the one on the opposite side of each fin . In this configuration using current turbofan technology there are preferably a total of 18 turbofan engines attached to the lower stage . However in the event that turbofan technology improves the number of turbofan engines attached to the lower stage may be decreased. The turbofan engines normally will employ jet fuel preferably JP 10 for operation.

The turbofan engines preferably have the characteristics of the F 100 229 production engines each with a fixed customized inlet. Such engines have a maximum installed net thrust of 35 000 pounds in afterburner at sea level at Mach 1. In a preferred embodiment vectored thrust vanes are placed in the exhaust of the six outermost turbofan engines . The vectored thrust vanes are used for flight control of roll pitch and yaw from liftoff to about Mach 2.6. The turbofan inlets should be shaped and optimized for low drag thrust efficiency and capability to prevent engine stall in the rotation maneuver described below before landing. The size and performance of the turbofan engines may be selected by one skilled in the art dependent upon the performance characteristics of the middle and upper stages payload and the mass of the lower stage .

In one embodiment of the invention the plurality of air breathing engines may employ the turbofan engines described above in a star shaped pattern along the fins and also a plurality of ramjet engines placed circumferentially along the cylinder portion of the housing . In this configuration a preferred number of ramjet engines are positioned equally around the periphery of the cylinder portion of the housing . Preferably the ramjet engines can be a single annular engine encircling the cylinder portion of the housing .

In a preferred embodiment rather than placing the ramjet engines on the lower stage the ramjet engines will be placed on a middle stage . The ramjet system may be a plurality of ramjet engines positioned around the cylinder portion of the housing at equal intervals or may be a single annular ramjet engine placed along the cylinder of the housing . In this configuration the ramjet engines operate from about Mach 2 to Mach 4. The ramjet engines would be operating in parallel with the turbofan engines attached to the lower stage from about Mach 2 to Mach 2.6. After the speed of the launch system reaches the Mach limit for the turbofan engines on the lower stage assumed to be Mach 2.6 the lower stage is separated from the middle stage and the engines are reduced to idle for descent under a parachute to a lower altitude.

The ramjet engines may be designed using engine manufacturer s analytical models representing current technology and preferably have fixed geometry inlets and may have moveable inlet covers. Therefore while these are preferably custom engines they employ current techniques for sizing and manufacture preferably making use of ceramics and composite materials to reduce the weight of the ramjets to about half that for similar thrust engines which may have been designed in the 1970 and 1980 time frame. Preferably the ramjet engines also burn JP 10 fuel.

Referring to the invention also includes a mobile launch gantry that allows the system to be launched in any area containing a concrete pad or similar base. Preferably the gantry has tilt up capability to position the system for launch and allows fueling lines for the upper middle and lower stages to run through the gantry from mobile support vehicles not depicted including fuel trucks that may surround the gantry . The gantry provides ground power for fueling systems check and the payload until about three minutes from launch of the system . The gantry may also include feed tanks to replenish cryogenic fuels in the upper stage until right before launch of the system.

The invention also includes a method of launching and propelling a rocket bearing payload into earth orbit that is depicted in and described more fully below.

In general the method includes using the system described herein by using the turbofan engines attached to the lower stage and ramjet engines attached to the middle stage in series to launch and propel the rocket until a predetermined speed and or altitude is reached this speed altitude may be selected calculated by one skilled in the art based upon system performance and weight . First the turbofan engines are reduced to idle after the ramjet engines have stabilized at operating thrust in the supersonic regime. The lower and middle stages are separated and after the maximum Mach Number is reached using the ramjet engines of the middle stage the middle and upper stages are separated. The rocket propelled upper stage is then ignited and propelled into earth orbit. The lower stage is then recovered by using the drogue and main parachutes to slow its descent releasing the main parachutes then pitching around and controlling the thrust of the turbofan engines to enable a vertical descent and touchdown. The middle stage is recovered after a water splashdown aided by the drogue and main parachutes to slow its descent.

1. Hours before the launch the mobile launch gantry is tilted up and the fueling lines are connected through the gantry to the system to fuel the system.

2. The bulk of Cryogenic upper stage fueling is completed about twenty minutes before launch but top off continues up until the gantry is moved away from the system launch vehicle a few minutes prior to launch.

4. Cryogenic propellant top off is terminated and the gantry is moved away from the system about three minutes prior to launch.

7. The system reduces its pitch angle with respect to the horizon after liftoff thereafter following the appropriate launch trajectory.

8. The ramjets are started about one minute after liftoff after reaching minimum ignition Mach Number estimated at Mach 2.0 .

9. The turbofan engines are shut down when the turbofan engine limit Mach Number limit is reached estimated at Mach 2.6 .

10. The lower and middle stages are disconnected by means of pyrotechnic devices and the drogue parachutes are deployed from the lower stage.

11. The ramjet engines are shut down when the staging conditions altitude and Mach Number are reached.

19. The lower stage is rotated by thrust vector control in concert with the control surfaces on the fins until the engines are thrusting downwards.

21. The turbofan engines are employed to land the lower stage the lower stage may land on a to reasonably flat metallic surface .

Due to the launch trajectory of the system recovery of the lower and middle stages normally will occur some tens of miles from the launch site. This is because of the launch trajectory of the system and due to the fact that it may require too much fuel to fly the lower stage back to the launch site. A barge or ship will be employed as a landing site for the lower stage. This will allow the lower stage to easily be returned to the launch site for turn around. A ship will also be employed to recover the middle stage after its water landing.

The below charts depict a theoretical mission employing one embodiment of the present invention. Many other configurations and trajectories may be employed using the present invention.

What is described herein are specific examples of many possible variations on the same invention and are not intended in a limiting sense. The claimed invention can be practiced using other variations not specifically described above.

