---

title: System and method for managing computer operations according to stored user preferences
abstract: A system and method for managing computer operations according to stored user preferences is disclosed. The system includes a calendar module for scheduling an event and centrally storing the user preferences regarding the computer operations during the event, and a controller module for retrieving the user preferences centrally stored in the calendar module and centrally controlling the computer operations according to the user preferences during the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08140979&OS=08140979&RS=08140979
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08140979
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080815
---
The present invention generally relates to a system and method for managing computer operations and more specifically to a system and method for managing computer operations according to stored user preferences.

Computers are often employed by users to manage events such as real time collaborative activities. Examples of real time collaborative activities commonly managing by computers are presentations meetings and teleconferences. These real time collaborative activities require computers to simultaneously managing slideshows audio teleconferences interactive whiteboards video displays and other complex applications.

However during real time collaborative activities the computer is also managing normal computer operations in addition to managing the operations required by the real time collaborative activities. Thus it is highly possible that a program operating in the background of the activity but having no relationship to the activity may issue an alert interrupting the activity or begin a certain process which hinders the effective management of the activity.

Program alerts are often designed to require attention from the computer user. Such an alert would be issued on an on screen display or over the loudspeakers of the computer and thus would be known by others involved in the activity. Such an alert may significantly distract and interrupt the computer user the other groups involved and a flow and progress of the activity.

Program processes often require a significant amount of computer resources to operate effectively. Such a process may significantly slow operation of an on screen display being used to facilitate a collaborative activity distort the rendering of sound with respect to the the collaborative activity and cause distraction and interruption for the computer user the audience and a flow and progress of the activity.

One example of such a program is an anti virus program. The anti virus program can initiate an alert in the form of an operating system window start scanning directories and files for viruses and start displaying its status and the names of directories being scanned. These ocurrences may lead to a system being less responsive and slow and the aforementioned interruptions and distractions.

Another example of such a program is a back up software program. The back up software program may start working and start copying files in the middle of an activity utilizing an on screeen display. This may also lead to a system being less responsive and slow and the aforementioned interruptions and distractions.

Another example of such a program is an instant message program. The instant message program may provide a pop up window with a message in the middle of an activity and clearly represented on an on screen display. The contents of the message that is displayed may be either confidential or not appropriate in the given context to the given audience. This may also lead to a system being less responsive and slow and the aforementioned interruptions and distractions.

A further example of such a program is an audio alarm program. The audio alarm program may automatically activate and a window may be displayed with a reminder text and some sort of sound. The audio alarm program may also be used to indicate that a new email message has arrived into a mailbox in the same fashion. In addition the audio alarm may indicate new software or software updates are available in the same fashion. Further examples include indication that new wireless networks have been detected or that a voice mail message has been received. This may also lead to a system being less responsive and slow and the aforementioned interruptions and distractions.

Further examples of such programs are Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP telephone programs or other various programs that are specifically audio enabled. The display or sound may indicate that a party is calling over VoIP in the middle of the activity. Certain communication programs may attempt to automatically initiate during an activity. Again this may also lead to a system being less responsive and slow and the aforementioned interruptions and distractions.

The different distractions and interruptions that may occur are numerous and range from audible distractions to visual distractions and interruptions. These programs may also lead to a system being slowed down due to CPU disk or memory activities and subsequently interfere with other computer operations which in turn can cause operations belonging to real time collaborative activities to have a reduced effectiveness.

Some specific programs or applications allow the suppression and disablement of interruptions and processes designed to run in the background. However this suppression or disablement can normally only be done manually by the user and on a program by program basis. Even then many programs or applications still fail to provide a suppression or disablement feature.

Since programs or applications normally must be addressed on an individual basis an attempt to perform this suppression or disablement of the interruptions and distractions shortly prior to a real time collaborative activity can be an error prone effort. Often it is hard to determine whether a program has actually been disabled or suppressed. In addition enablement of all the programs with the interruptions and distractions after the activity has ended is also accomplished manually and individually. This too is a process which is extremely cumbersome and error prone.

In certain circumstances two screens can be used to address the occurrence of program alerts during real time collaborative activities with a slide show white board or the like being shown on one screen and speaker notes and previously mentioned alerts being directed to a screen only visible to the operator of the activity. However this solution fails to completely solve the problem. Program alerts often result block the view of speaker notes and change the window focus from the collaborative activity to the program issuing the alert. To return focus to the activity the operator of the activity having access to the non public display has to react quickly and dismiss the alert window. This has the tendency to cause a hesitation in the operator s behavior which causes a distraction and interruption to both operator and those involved in the activity.

It is also extremely well known that cellular phones can act as interruptions and distractions when activated by either a telephone call a text message or a low battery alert during any activity including real time collaborative activites. It is common place for those administering or actively involved in real time collaborative activities to forget to switch their cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs or pagers to a mode designed to minimize interruption and distraction.

While some program alerts and processes cause interruptions that are unwanted and unnecessarily deplete computer resources other program alerts and processes must be attended to immediately regardless of what activity is occurring or the computer resources that the process might deplete. For example it is essential for the administrator of the activity to know if battery power on the display device or the computer is low in order for steps to be taken to provide a power source immediately to avoid any loss of attention from those involved in the activity. Also certain other emergencies may rise to a level that warrants the interruption or distraction of an activity.

In attempt to control computer processes during real time collaborative activities a message prioritization method at a host server side has been disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0150545 A1. However that method does not provide a solution in a broad sense and is limited to messages routed through a central messaging server.

It is important to recognize the effect that an interruption or a distraction has on human behavior. It is documented that people are easily distracted and are not good at managing and moving on from distractions http portal.acm.org citation.cfm id 1121114 . Also interruptions and stress go hand in hand and prevent one from getting work done efficiently http www2.vhi.ie topic stressclass2 . The effect of interruptions is not restricted to internal manifestations as the effects of interruptions have also been determined by tracking an individual s eyes http www.cs.cmu.edu kraut RKraut.site.files articles dabbish04 interruptions team v2.9 names.pdf .

Thus the distractions and interruptions which occur during real time collaborative activities are proven to greatly reduce productivity and concentration and potentially leak confidential and proprietary information. These hindrances have the ability to make a administrator or presented look unprofessional and ruin images of individuals and groups. Thus it becomes extremely important to minimize or eliminate distractions and interruptions to the highest extent possible.

Hence an effective and adaptive solution for managing distractions and interruptions during real time collaborative activities including presentations meetings audio presentations and the like is needed so that unnecessary interruptions can be avoided.

In view of the foregoing and other exemplary problems drawbacks and disadvantages of the conventional methods and structures an exemplary object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for managing computer operations according to stored user preferences.

A first exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a system for managing computer operations according to stored user preferences including a calendar module for scheduling an event and centrally storing the user preferences regarding the computer operations during the event and a controller module for retrieving the user preferences centrally stored in the calendar module and centrally controlling the computer operations according to the user preferences during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the calendar module includes a scheduler module for allowing a user to one of schedule the event in the calendar module and indicate to the calendar module that the event is occurring presently.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system further includes an environmental sensor module for detecting an occurrence of the event and communicating the occurrence of the event to the controller module. If the calendar module did not notify the controller module of the occurrence of the event prior to a detection of the occurrence of the event and if the calendar module includes stored user preferences applicable to an occurrence of an unscheduled event the controller module controls the computer operations according to the user preferences applicable to the occurrence of the unscheduled event.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the calendar module includes stored information that is communicated to the controller module to determine whether one of the computer processes is an emergency.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system further includes a user display module for use in facilitating an event. The controller module controls the computer processes such that the user preferences determine whether the computer processes use the user display module during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the calendar module communicates to the user in order to prevent an emergency from occurring during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system further includes a synchronizer module for communicating with the calendar module in order to identify a time period in which a distraction is unwanted. The synchronizer module communicates with a device outside of the system to remove the distraction during the time period.

In an exemplary aspect of the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system further includes a backup module for recording an event. The backup module is accessed by a participant of the event the participant being disconnected from the event such that the backup module provides a portion of the event to the participant in which the participant was unable to participate due to being disconnected.

A second exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a method for managing computer operations according to stored user preferences including scheduling an event centrally storing the user preferences regarding the computer operations during the event retrieving the user preferences and centrally controlling the computer operations according to the user preferences during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention a calendar performs the scheduling of the event and the centrally storing of the user preferences. A controller performs the retrieving of the user preferences and the centrally controlling of the computer operations. The calendar includes a scheduler that allows a user to one of schedule the event in the calendar and indicate to the calendar that the event is occurring presently.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further includes detecting an occurrence of the event by using an environmental sensor communicating the occurrence of the event from the environmental sensor to the controller and if the calendar did not notify the controller of the occurrence of the event prior to the detecting of the occurrence and if the calendar comprises stored user preferences applicable to an occurrence of an unscheduled event using the controller to control the computer operations according to the user preferences applicable to the occurrence of the unscheduled event.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further includes using the controller to determine whether one of the computer processes is an emergency.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further includes using a user display to facilitate the event and using the user preferences to determine whether the computer processes use the user display during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further includes communicating to the user in order to prevent an emergency from occurring during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further includes synchronizing with the calendar in order to identify a time period in which a distraction is unwanted such that the distraction is removed during the time period.

In an exemplary aspect of the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method further includes recording the event such that the event can be accessed by a participant of the event to provide the participant with a portion of the event in which the participant was unable to participate due to being disconnected from the event.

A third exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a programmable storage medium tangibly embodying a program of machine readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to manage computer operations according to user preferences including a calendar in which a user schedules an event and stores the user preferences regarding the computer operations during the event and a controller for retrieving the user preferences centrally stored in the calendar and centrally controlling the computer operations according to the user preferences during the event.

In an exemplary aspect of the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention the calendar includes a scheduler that allows the user to one of schedule the event in the calendar and indicate to the calendar that the event is occurring presently.

In an exemplary aspect of the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention the programmable storage medium further includes an environmental sensor for detecting an occurrence of the event and communicating the occurrence of the event to the controller. If the calendar did not notify the controller of the occurrence of the event prior to a detection of the occurrence of the event and if the calendar includes stored user preferences applicable to an occurrence of an unscheduled event the controller controls the computer operations according to the user preferences applicable to the occurrence of the unscheduled event.

In an exemplary aspect of the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention the programmable storage medium further includes a recorder that records the event. The recorder is accessed by a participant of the event the participant being disconnected from the event such that the recorder provides a portion of the event to the participant in which the participant was unable to participate due to being disconnected.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there are shown exemplary embodiments of the structures and method according to the present invention.

The system includes a calendar to which a user provides preferences and settings for central storage and a controller to which the calendar communicates the user preferences and settings. The system also includes a user display for allowing the system to communicate with a user.

Exemplarily illustrated in the calendar provides the user with the ability to schedule an event such as a real time collaborative activity in advance. The calendar also provides the user with the ability to manage computer operation settings in conjunction with the scheduling of an event. Through an operations control menu of the calendar exemplarily illustrated in the user is able to specify any computer operation allowed to operate during the event and prohibited from operating during the event. This operation control menu allows a profile to be developed by a user for a specific event entered into the scheduler of the calendar . The profile allows the user to provide specific operational settings exemplarily represented in with respect to all computer operations included in the profile by the user. Optionally and exemplarily with respect to internet or cellular telephony answering machine settings can also be specified through the operations control menu .

In an exemplary embodiment of the calendar illustrated in the ability to manage the computer operations center through the calendar is fully customizable to the needs of the user. The user has the option of disabling all operations occurring within the computer operation center . The user also has the option of only disabling one or more specific background processes. Management of displayed alerts and audio alerts are also accomplished in the same way. The calendar centrally stores this user preference information for the controller to centrally reference and implement in the course of controlling all operations that the computer operation center attempts to initiate.

An exemplary embodiment of the calendar includes flags that allow the user to specify computer operation settings with respect to individual programs or global operations. The specific flags may include many different types of functionality with respect to the management of computer operation settings including but not limited to if an alert can be routed immediately if an alert is suspended if a suspended alert should appear at the end of the scheduled period if a suspended alert is cancelled at the moment of suspension if an alert is to be blocked placed in the background or allowed and if a specific alert should be classified as an emergency or one that is routine.

The user management of global operation can also be accomplished by flags provided through the calendar as well. For example the user can specify whether to allow background processes during real time collaborative activities. The user can also specify whether networking applications such as instant messenger or Skype are allowed to operate during real time collaborative activities. The user can further specify a list of allowed alerts and a list of excluded alerts to exist during the event. In addition the user can specify general action to be taken upon the initiation of a real time collaborative activity even if the activity is not recorded in the scheduler portion of the calendar .

An exemplary functionality of the calendar allows for a user to specify that only certain types of alerts should be allowed during an event. Exemplarily if a user schedules a real time collaborative activity in which the user is the administrator or the presenter and the system is the facilitator of the real time collaborative activity the user can specify through flags that there should be no alerts of any kind during the real time collaborative activity except for those that would be normally identified as emergency alerts. The user would have the ultimate discretion regarding what alert would ultimately be classified as an emergency alert.

When entering into a mode designed for a specific event the calendar may be enabled to attempt to anticipate potential emergencies and prevent them from occurring while the event is taking place. For example if the calendar realizes that an event is about to take place and the computer being used is not connected to a power source the calendar would alert the user to this prior to the initiation or beginning of the event.

Exemplarily illustrated in the controller includes an Application Programming Interface API . The API allows the calendar according to user preferences to indicate to the API what actions to take with respect to the management of the computer operations center . The API applies the user preferences communicated by the calendar to manage the computer operations center according to the user preferences. The API will allow and disallow alerts to be displayed and will allow and disallow process initiation according to the user s preferences.

In another exemplary embodiment the controller also may be connected to an environmental sensor . The environmental sensor detects an occurrence of an event and communicates the occurrence to the API . If the API has not been previously notified of the event by the calendar the API communicates with the calendar to determine whether a set of user preferences have been stored for implementation in case of a detection of an unscheduled event. If user preferences have been established regarding detected occurrences of unscheduled events the controller retrieves the specific user preferences and controls the computer operations during the unscheduled event according to those specific user preferences. The environmental sensor can be a number of different devices including a biometrics scanner a microphone or a camera.

An exemplary aspect of the present invention is as follows. An application that is running at the same time as an event is occurring wants to either alert a user or initiate a process. However in contrast from conventional methods of alert management the application wanting to issue the alert or initiate the process must make a call to the API . The application can communicate information to the API such as the level of an alert or a process or how urgent an alert or a process might be. The code in the API will decide from the communication with the calendar if the alert or process can be routed immediately suspended or returned back to the application. When leaving a presentation mode the API informs the application that the presentation mode is exited so that alerts can be routed appropriately and the processes can be initiated.

In an alternative exemplary embodiment of the present invention a calendar can infer a flag automatically from the description of an event in a calendar . When the calendar makes the determination that a description entered in the calendar represents one of an event the calendar is able to make an appropriate call to the API to instruct the API how to handle certain alerts and processes that occur during an event.

Another exemplary aspect of the present invention includes a synchronizer of a smart cellular phone . The synchronizer exchanges information with the calendar . The synchronizer is able to identify time slots in the calendar during which computer operations are undesirable. The synchronizer itself can then switch the smart cellular phone from a ring mode to a vibrate mode automatically and switch back from a vibrate mode to a ring mode once it is acceptable to do so. Alternatively the synchronizer will configure the phone to accept calls directly into phone mail depending on a profile description of an incoming phone number.

To avoid disruptions caused by various computer processes occurring in the computer process center applications such as backup software or Anti virus software will query the API for information regarding a user s calendar. This will enable these applications to schedule processes during open time slots when the user is not doing critical work or involved in an event.

A user has the ability to specify additional preferences in a calendar . For example the user can set up a flag that will instruct the API not to print instant messages if the user s laptop is connected to a projector. This allows a user to temporarily stop receiving messages when the computer is connected to a projector during an event. When the user disconnects the computer from the projector the API allows the messages to be displayed on a user display . Also a calendar can instruct the API to provide a specific response to an instant messenger if an event is ongoing and instant messenger alerts are restricted during the event. The specific response can be either one that is generic and pre stored in the calendar or can be one created by the user and specified to the calendar .

In addition some events will only require that the system be connected to a projector temporarily. Also some events will require that the system be connected to a projector at varying times through the event. The user is able to specify these options in the calendar in order for the API to anticipate connections and disconnections to a projector.

The calendar can also contain other information like answering machine greeting messages to be used when contacted by an internet telephone or through VoIP during an event. The calendar is able to determine a contacting party and to provide specific information to be communicated to the contacting party. The calendar can also have a flag designed to only allow calls from certain parties during the occurrence of an event.

Another exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes an event participant s ability when connecting to a system for participation in the event rewind the live event and replay it up to the point where the event is live again. A backup included in the system allows the participant to catch up with the event if the participant s connection to the event is interrupted. Thus an interruption in information will not cause a participant to lose all of the information conveyed during the interruption due to the existence of the backup .

The CPUs are interconnected via a system bus to a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM input output I O adapter for connecting peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives to the bus user interface adapter for connecting a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface device to the bus a communication adapter for connecting an information handling system to a data processing network the Internet an Intranet a personal area network PAN etc. reader scanner and a display adapter for connecting the bus to a display device and or printer .

In addition to the hardware software environment described above a different aspect of the invention includes a computer implemented method for performing the above described method. As an example this method may be implemented in the particular environment discussed above.

Such a method may be implemented for example by operating a computer as embodied by a digital data processing apparatus to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. These instructions may reside in various types of signal bearing media.

This signal bearing media may include for example a RAM contained within the CPU as represented by the fast access storage for example. Alternatively the instructions may be contained in another signal bearing media such as a signal bearing medium in directly or indirectly accessible by the CPU .

Whether contained in the signal bearing medium the computer CPU or elsewhere the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape etc. paper punch cards. In an illustrative embodiment of the invention the machine readable instructions may comprise software object code compiled from a language such as C etc.

In the description above numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits control logic and the details of computer program instructions for conventional algorithms and processes have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the present invention unnecessarily.

Software programming code that embodies aspects of the present invention is typically maintained in permanent storage such as a computer readable medium. In a client server environment such software programming code may be stored on a client or server. The software programming code may be embodied on any of a variety of known media for use with a data processing system. This includes but is not limited to magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape compact discs CD s digital video discs DVD s and computer instruction signals embodied in a transmission medium with or without a carrier wave upon which the signals are modulated. For example the transmission medium may include a communications network such as the Internet. In addition while the invention may be embodied in computer software the functions necessary to implement the invention may alternatively be embodied in part or in whole using hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits or other hardware or some combination of hardware components and software.

Improvements and modifications can be made to the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and sub combinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the prior art which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description.

