---

title: Suspended membrane pressure sensing array
abstract: An accurate and low cost macro pressure sensor is described. The pressure sensor includes an array of capacitive sensing elements formed at the intersections of sets of conductors. A lower set of conductors is supported by a substrate and an upper set of conductors is supported on a flexible polymer membrane. Capacitive sensing elements are formed where a conductor in the upper set overlaps a spacer in the lower set. Separators hold the membrane away from the substrate with a separation that, because of deflection of the membrane, varies in relation to the pressure applied to the membrane. As a result, the separation of conductors, and therefore capacitance, in each cell varies in response to the applied pressure. By attaching the membrane to the separators and optionally using slits in the membrane between capacitive sensing elements, measurements made in each capacitive sensing element can be mechanically decoupled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07944008&OS=07944008&RS=07944008
owner: Sierra Scientific Instruments, LLC
number: 07944008
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080423
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 925 720 entitled SUSPENDED MEMBRANE PRESSURE SENSING ARRAY filed on Apr. 23 2007 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Research in connection with this application was supported by the National Institute of Health under Grant R44DK069131. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Pressure sensing arrays are useful to measure spatial pressure distributions. Some pressure sensing arrays incorporate sensors that measure an external pressure applied to a surface by capacitively relating the applied pressure into an electrical signal. Some capacitive pressure sensors detect pressure applied to an outer conductor by measuring a change in capacitance between the outer conductor and an inner conductor separated by a compliant layer. The compliant non fluid separation layer compresses due to application of the pressure to the outer conductor causing a change in a separation between the inner conductor and the outer conductor which in turn changes the capacitance between the inner conductor and the outer conductor.

A different form of capacitive pressure sensor employs a membrane that suspends an outer conductor over an inner conductor where the outer conductor and the inner conductor are separated by a gap. Semiconductor and or micro electromechanical systems MEMS processing techniques have been used to make these types of pressure sensors called suspended membrane deflection sensors. Through etching and deposition of materials a conductive membrane can be formed separated from a substrate conductor by a gap. Such sensors detect external pressure by measuring a change in capacitance between the membrane conductor and the substrate conductor caused by changes in a size of the gap which changes as pressure is applied to the membrane.

The invention relates to an apparatus for capacitively sensing force or pressure that incorporates a multi dimensional array of capacitive sensing elements. Accordingly in some embodiments of the invention a method of making a capacitive multi dimensional sensing apparatus is provided. The method includes providing a substrate having a plurality of elongated substrate electrodes a separation layer and a membrane having a plurality of elongated membrane electrodes. The separation layer includes one or more separators and one or more open portions. The method further includes orienting the membrane relative to the substrate such that each of at least two of the plurality of elongated membrane electrodes intersects each of at least two of the plurality of substrate electrodes forming a multi dimensional array of capacitive elements with a capacitive element at each intersection. The substrate is oriented such that open portions of the separation layer align with the capacitive elements. The method also includes attaching the separation layer to the membrane.

In other embodiments of the invention an apparatus for capacitively measuring force or pressure over a multi dimensional area is provided. The apparatus includes a substrate having a plurality of elongated substrate electrodes a membrane having a plurality of elongated membrane electrodes and a separation layer having one or more separators. The separation layer fixedly connects and separates the substrate and the membrane. The membrane is configured to deflect in response to applied pressure. The membrane and the substrate are oriented such that each of at least two of the plurality of membrane electrodes intersects each of at least two of the plurality of substrate electrodes forming a multi dimensional array of capacitive elements having a capacitive element at each intersection. The plurality of separators forms a plurality sensor regions of the apparatus. Each sensor region includes at least one capacitive element and a membrane portion of each sensor region is mechanically decoupled from a membrane portion of each adjacent sensor region.

In other embodiments of the invention a method of operating a capacitive multi dimensional sensing apparatus is provided. The method includes providing a capacitive multi dimensional sensing apparatus. The apparatus has a substrate having a plurality of substrate electrodes and a membrane having a plurality of membrane electrodes. Each of at least two of the substrate electrodes intersects more than one membrane electrode in the plurality of membrane electrodes forming a multidimensional array of capacitive elements with a capacitive element at each intersection. The apparatus also includes a separation layer having open portions corresponding to a plurality of sensor regions.

The method also includes deflecting a first membrane portion corresponding to a first sensor region toward the substrate by stretching the first membrane portion with a first pressure while mechanically isolating membrane portions corresponding to adjacent sensor regions from the deflection of the first membrane portion in at least one direction. The method further includes measuring a change in capacitance between a substrate electrode and a membrane electrode corresponding to the deflection of the first membrane portion.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that macroscopic pressure sensors that incorporate compliant separation layers may exhibit problems with the repeatability of measurements as the same applied pressure may not always result in the same deflection due to changes in mechanical properties of the compliant separation layer. Mechanical properties of the compliant separation layer may be a function of temperature and other ambient conditions and or may change with the age of the layer or its history of deformation.

The inventors have also recognized that silicon based processing is not well suited for making suspended membrane deflection pressure sensing arrays that must cover a large macroscopic area. Further some applications require that a pressure sensing array cover a curved surface which is not generally compatible with silicon based processing.

Exemplary capacitive multi dimensional pressure sensing apparatuses exhibit improved repeatability of pressure measurement and less thermal sensitivity than comparable capacitive sensing arrays that employ compliant separation layers in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Exemplary capacitive multi dimensional pressure sensing apparatuses may have lower production cost than some compliant separation layer designs because exemplary apparatuses may be more easily mass produced.

Some exemplary capacitive multi dimensional pressure sensing apparatuses may be fabricated at least in part using flex circuit type processes allowing the sensing apparatus to be wrapped around curved or other non flat surfaces unlike rigid arrays of capacitive gap sensors produced with traditional silicon based processing techniques. Some exemplary capacitive multi dimensional pressure sensing apparatuses may have a sensing array covering a macroscopically large area of a single substrate which may be prohibitively expensive with traditional silicon based processing techniques.

Embodiments of the invention provide a macro capacitive pressure sensing apparatus with a multi dimensional array of capacitive sensing elements a method of making the apparatus and a method of operating the apparatus. The apparatus may have for example a two dimension array of sensing elements. The capacitive sensing elements may also be referred to as capacitive elements or sensor cells herein. The apparatus includes a substrate a membrane and a separation layer that separates the substrate and the membrane.

The substrate has a plurality of elongated substrate electrodes and the membrane supports a plurality of membrane electrodes. In assembling the sensing apparatus the membrane may be oriented such that the membrane electrodes cross or intersect the substrate electrodes. The separation layer includes one or more separators which hold the membrane away from the substrate. As a result each intersection of a substrate electrode and a membrane electrode forms a capacitive element. The membrane is of a polymer or other suitable material such that as positive external pressure is applied to the membrane the membrane stretches deflecting into a gap in the separation layer toward the rigid or semi rigid substrate. When the pressure is removed the membrane returns to its original position.

Mechanical decoupling may be provided between the capacitive elements. As a result if a first sensor region is mechanically decoupled from a second adjacent sensor region a pressure applied only to a portion of the membrane corresponding to the first sensor region will not cause a substantial deflection or a change in tension of a portion of the membrane corresponding to the second sensor region. Mechanical decoupling may be provided by attaching the membrane to the separators. The one or more separators may be positioned to bound at least partially the capacitive sensing elements so as to form sensor regions with each sensor region including at least one capacitive element. By attaching the membrane to the separators a separator between adjacent sensor regions mechanically decouples portions of the membrane corresponding to each adjacent sensor region. Mechanical separation can alternatively or additionally be provided between sensor elements by forming slits in the membrane between the sensor regions to be decoupled.

Slits in the membrane may also increase the sensitivity of the apparatus by increasing membrane deflection in a membrane portion of each sensor region resulting from an applied pressure.

By appropriate selection of materials and construction a gap height or gap separation at an intersection of a substrate electrode and a membrane electrode is a repeatable function of pressure applied to the membrane at the intersection. The gap height or gap separation at the intersection is related to the capacitance between the intersecting electrodes. As a result a pressure applied to the membrane at the intersection may be determined from the measured capacitance of the intersection. Thus the apparatus provides an array of capacitive pressure sensors when the plurality of membrane electrodes and the plurality of substrate electrodes are connected with electronics that can measure the capacitance at each intersection of the membrane electrodes and the substrate electrodes.

In some embodiments the substrate and membrane may be substantially planar. In other embodiments the apparatus may be cylindrical with a cylindrically shaped substrate. The plurality of substrate electrodes may encircle the cylindrically shaped substrate and the plurality of membrane electrodes may extend parallel to a longitudinal axis of the substrate. In other embodiments the substrate may have various shapes as the invention is not limited in this respect. Fabrication of the membrane by patterning a flexible circuit patterned with conductors shaped and positioned to form membrane electrodes allows the sensing apparatus to be formed in a wide range of shapes. Moreover fabrication in this way may be more economical than producing traditional silicon based capacitive pressure sensing arrays or other known sensor array designs.

For example cylindrical pressure sensing arrays have been used in motility visualization system MVS catheters. MVS catheters may be inserted into the gastrointestinal GI tract of a subject to measure sphincter pressure. As is known in the art a typical MVS catheter for use with a human subject may require a macro scale pressure sensing array that is between about 4 20 inches long and about 0.25 2 inches in circumference. A description of an MVS catheter employing an array of discrete pressure sensors appears in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 981 entitled HIGH RESOLUTION SOLID STATE PRESSURE SENSOR published as US 2005 0148884 A1 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference. Pressure sensor arrays as fabricated herein may be used in these and other applications.

Some exemplary macro capacitive multi dimensional pressure sensing apparatuses in cylindrical form with sufficiently large sensing arrays may be used for the measurement of sphincter pressure in the gastrointestinal GI tract. Other cylindrical macro capacitive pressure sensing apparatuses may be incorporated into manometry probes.

Although aspects of the invention are described below primarily with respect to pressure sensing one of ordinary skill in the art knows that pressure is force applied over an area. Thus the same apparatus may be used to measure force and or pressure.

A plurality of elongated substrate electrodes may be supported by substrate . In some embodiments substrate electrodes may be deposited on substrate attached to substrate and or formed in substrate or in any other suitable manner or configuration as the invention is not limited in this respect. For embodiments in which substrate is formed of a conducting material a non conducting material may be used to separate the electrodes from the conducting portions of the substrate such as by providing a coating over the substrate in at least the regions where the substrate electrodes are to be supported. Suitable non conducting materials include dielectrics.

Membrane may be configured to deflect by stretching in response to force or pressure applied to membrane . Membrane may be attached to and supported by separation layer . Separation layer may be attached to substrate or may be monolithic with substrate . Separation layer may include one or more separators that are each attached to membrane and a plurality of open portions that form gaps. Separators may form a plurality of sensor regions positioned between adjacent separators .

A plurality of elongated membrane electrodes may be supported by membrane . In some embodiments membrane electrodes may be deposited on membrane attached to membrane or formed in membrane . In some embodiments membrane electrodes may be disposed on a side of membrane facing toward substrate as depicted. In other embodiments membrane electrodes may be disposed on a side of membrane facing away from substrate may extend through a thickness of membrane and or may be sandwiched between other layers of membrane in a multilayer membrane. For example membrane electrodes may be formed by patterning a conductive layer on a flexible substrate using known flexible circuit fabrication techniques. However any suitable fabrication technique may be used as the invention is not limited in this respect.

A capacitive element is formed where a substrate electrode in the plurality of substrate electrodes intersects a membrane electrode in the plurality of membrane electrodes. Intersections of sensor electrodes and membrane electrodes form a multi dimensional array of capacitive elements . As is apparent to one of skill in the art based on geometry each of at least two of substrate electrodes must intersect each of at least two of membrane electrodes to form a multi dimensional array of capacitive elements . In some embodiments every substrate electrode intersects every membrane electrode as depicted in . However not every substrate electrode need intersect every membrane electrode as long as a multi dimensional array of capacitive elements is formed as the present invention is not limited in this respect.

As will be apparent to one of skill in the art the term intersect as used herein to describe electrodes means that a membrane electrode overlays or crosses and from some aspect angles appears to intersect a substrate electrode or vice versa as shown in . However from other aspect angles the substrate electrodes and the membrane electrodes may not appear to intersect as they are separated by a gap and do not make physical contact with one another.

Separators may be formed in any suitable way. In some embodiments separators of separation layer are attached to substrate as depicted. In other embodiments separators may be monolithic with substrate . Separators of separation layer are attached to membrane .

Attachments between separators and membrane ensure that membrane deflection under applied force or pressure Pis primarily due to stretching of membrane . If membrane is not attached to separators membrane may slip or slide with respect to separators which may result in unwanted mechanical hysteresis under changes in applied pressure P.

Gaps or open portions between separators or within a separator may be occupied by air or another gas. However in some embodiments gaps may be filled by a liquid or other suitable medium. Examples of suitable media include but are not limited to air nitrogen gas dielectric liquids etc.

In some embodiments substrate may be planar as shown. In other embodiments substrate may be curved or have a different three dimensional configuration as the invention is not limited in this respect. Substrate may be rectangular as shown though in other embodiments substrate may have other shapes as the invention is not limited in this respect. For example a cylindrical substrate is depicted and described below with respect to .

In some embodiments substrate electrodes may be substantially parallel to each other as shown. In other embodiments only some of substrate electrodes may be substantially parallel to each other or none of the substrate electrodes may be substantially parallel to each other as the invention is not limited in this respect. For example substrate electrodes may be configured as parallel conductive strips. In some embodiments substrate electrodes may be rectangular as shown however other embodiments may include substrate electrodes with other shapes as the invention is not limited in this respect.

Similarly in some embodiments membrane electrodes may be substantially parallel to each other as shown. In other embodiments only some of membrane electrodes may be substantially parallel to each other or none of membrane electrodes may be substantially parallel to each other as the invention is not limited in this respect. In some embodiments membrane electrodes may be rectangular as shown however other embodiments may include membrane electrodes with other shapes as the invention is not limited in this respect.

In some embodiments each substrate electrodes may have an electrical connection as shown. Similarly in some embodiments each membrane electrode may have an electrical connection as shown. Electrical connections and allow an electrical signal to be applied to a pair of electrodes . Using known capacitance measurement techniques or any other suitable measurement an electrical output measured on the same pair of electrodes can be used to determine capacitance between the pair of electrodes. As described above capacitance between electrodes is a function of a deflection of membrane at the electrodes and the deflection of membrane is a function of pressure. Thus electrical connections and enable pressure measurement for an array of locations to be made using the apparatus .

In the embodiment illustrated membrane may be fabricated using flex circuit manufacturing techniques. The electrodes as well as connections to those electrodes may be formed as part of the flex circuit fabrication.

Separators are shown as elongated strips running parallel to membrane electrodes in the depicted embodiment. Separators are also shown with a spacing that approximates a distance between membrane electrodes . However neither this orientation nor this spacing is a limitation on the invention and any suitable orientation or spacing may be used.

Separators may be formed of any suitable material. In the embodiment illustrated in separators may be formed of or be coated with adhesive material allowing attachment to substrate and membrane . An example of a suitable material is an uncured or partially cured epoxy strip. However any suitable material may be used to coat and or form separators .

Separators of separation layer may be attached to substrate and or membrane by any suitable process or means including but not limited to adhering bonding affixing mechanically fixing welding etc. Maintaining a controlled height h see of separation layer may be important to maintain a desired relationship between capacitance and applied pressure and for having a uniform response among capacitive elements formed by the intersecting regions of substrate electrodes and membrane electrodes . In some embodiments this control of the height may be effected by use of epoxy strips for separators in separation layer where the epoxy has small or predictable changes in thickness during the bonding process. Though in other embodiments fillers or other members may be incorporated into a matrix. As a specific example separators may be formed of epoxy containing spacing aggregates such as glass beads.

Alternatively or additionally jigs fixtures or other fabrication techniques may be used to hold substrate and membrane in a desired position while the components of the apparatus are being assembled. For example temporary spacers such as strips of the desired gap thickness h may be installed between the epoxy strips during the epoxy bonding operation and then removed after substrate separation layer and membrane have been coupled. In some embodiments the temporary spacers may be formed of a material with a high melting temperature to resist melting during the bonding process. In some embodiments the temporary spacers may be formed of a material with a low coefficient of friction for easy removal. For example teflon strips may be used as temporary spacers. These and similar techniques allow for control of the separation height that might otherwise be adversely affected during the bonding process when the separation layer may be placed under compressive load.

In separation layer is formed separate from both substrate and membrane . However such a fabrication process is not required as separation layer may be monolithic with substrate deposited onto substrate formed together with membrane etc. in accordance with embodiments of the invention. schematically illustrate side cross sectional detail views of other embodiments of the apparatus showing different configurations for separation layers. illustrate that separation layer need not be separate from substrate and membrane . In some embodiments part or all of the separation layer is monolithic with the substrate as shown in B and C.

In a substrate is shaped to provide double rib type features that control the undeflected height of the gap in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Each separator includes an adhesive element disposed between spacer elements in the form of two ribs that are monolithic with a substrate . The two ribs may be machined into substrate or formed in any other suitable way. Adhesive element is attached to the substrate and the membrane using any suitable process or means including but not limited to adhering bonding affixing mechanically fixing welding etc.

In a substrate is shaped to provide single rib type features that control the undeflected height of the gap in accordance with other embodiments of the invention. Each separator may include a rib that is monolithic with the substrate and an adhesive element that is attached to the membrane and the substrate as depicted.

In each separator is a rib that is monolithic with the substrate in accordance with other embodiments. The rib controls the undeflected height of the gap and is attached to the membrane . The embodiments depicted in incorporating monolithic rib features can provide for precise gap height if the rib height can be precisely controlled during fabrication of the substrate.

In each separator includes a spacer element and an adhesive element in accordance with another embodiment of the invention. Because spacer elements need not be adhesive they may be formed of plastic metal or any other suitable materials and can be secured to the adhesive elements either before or after the adhesive elements are attached to either substrate or membrane . In some embodiments spacer element may have a same cross sectional width and a height as those of adhesive element as depicted. However in other embodiments spacer element may have a different width than that of adhesive element and or spacer element may have a greater height that adhesive element

In some embodiments separators may be oriented parallel to membrane electrodes as shown in and described above. In some embodiments separators may be oriented parallel to substrate electrodes as shown in . In other embodiments separators may not be oriented parallel to substrate electrodes or membrane electrodes as the invention is not limited in this respect.

In some embodiments adjacent separators may be spaced on approximately the same pitch as the electrodes such that adjacent separators are separated by a substrate electrode as depicted in . In other embodiments separators may be situated at a greater spatial frequency than one per substrate electrode . For example in some separators are disposed between substrate electrodes and some separators are disposed on substrate electrodes .

Although the embodiments depicted above include strip like separators being parallel and in between either membrane electrodes or substrate electrodes many other configurations fall within the scope of the present invention. Examples of other configurations include but are not limited to squares of separators bordering each intersection of substrate electrodes and membrane electrodes squares or strips of separators at some bias angle with respect to the substrate electrodes and or at some bias angle with respect to the membrane electrodes etc.

As discussed above securing membrane to separators is one mechanism to reduce or eliminate mechanical cross coupling between adjacent sensor regions by mechanically decoupling a membrane portion of one sensor region from a membrane portion of an adjacent sensor region . Within a sensor region containing multiple capacitive sensing elements a capacitive sensing element may be mechanically decoupled from adjacent capacitive sensing elements in at least one direction due to a configuration of the separators even though it is not mechanically decoupled from adjacent capacitative sensing elements in a different direction.

In some embodiments one or more separators may form a multi dimensional array of sensor regions . illustrate a grid shaped separation layer that separates a substrate and a membrane forming a two dimensional array of sensor regions . . . in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. As depicted the separation layer may be formed from a single member such as separator . However separation layer may include many members that collectively form a grid shaped separation layer .

In the embodiment illustrated separation layer is formed as a grid with each square of the grid enclosing a sensor region with a single capacitive sensing element. As illustrated each sensor region . . . includes one capacitive sensing element . . . formed at an intersection of membrane electrodes and substrate electrodes . However in other embodiments even when separation layer is formed as a grid each sensor region . . . may include more than one capacitive sensing element . . . as the invention is not limited in this respect.

In other embodiments an apparatus may also include slits which can also decouple adjacent sensor regions. illustrate exemplary apparatuses that each includes a membrane having a plurality of slits. Slits . . . allow for reduction or elimination of mechanical cross coupling in applied loads such as pressure or force. That is if a load is applied at a sensor region on one side of a slit the resulting membrane deflection and increase in membrane tension is largely isolated to sensor region and is not transmitted to an adjacent sensor region across slit . For example an apparatus in has separators . . . that are parallel to substrate electrodes and continuous silts . . . that are perpendicular to separators . . . Sensor region is mechanically isolated from sensor region by separator and mechanically isolated from sensor region by slit . The slits also are useful in the control of the effective stiffness of the membrane . That is they can limit stretch of the membrane to be primarily in a direction between adjacent separation strips as indicated by arrow rather than being bi directional. Limiting stretch to stretch along one direction can also increase the sensitivity of a capacitive element via increased membrane deflection for a given applied pressure. This increase in sensitivity may be especially pronounced for circular or curved surfaces where hoop stiffening of the membrane is consequently reduced. Apparatuses with circular or curved surfaces are described in detail below with respect to .

An exemplary planar sensor array of 8 8 format was built according to the construction similar to that of with non continuous slits oriented parallel to membrane electrodes and an elastomeric outer layer. The planar sensor array was tested relative to two sensors of a more conventional elastomeric separation mechanism labeled conventional transducer and hybrid transducer . Both the conventional transducer and the hybrid transducer employ compliant separations strips that separate opposing electrodes. In the conventional transducer and the hybrid transducer pressure causes the compliant separation strips to compress which reduces a spacing between opposing electrodes. In contrast in the exemplary planar sensor array a spacing between opposing electrodes is changed by pressure applied to the membrane which stretches the membrane deflecting it into the gap. Results of the tests of the exemplary planar sensor array and tests of the conventional and hybrid sensor arrays employing compliant separation strips are given in Table 1. The exemplary design provided roughly 3 improvement in baseline repeatability relative to the conventional transducer and the hybrid transducer . The exemplary design provided a 10 to 50 improvement in thermal stability and 2 improvement in sensitivity relative to the more conventional devices and .

In other exemplary embodiments an apparatus may have a cylindrical form factor. Details of a membrane a separation structure and electrical interconnections e.g. substrate electrodes membrane electrodes and connections for a cylindrical capacitive pressure sensing array apparatus are shown and described with respect to in accordance with aspects of the invention.

Membrane and membrane electrodes may be formed with a flex circuit type processing. As is known to one of skill in the art flex circuit type processing includes depositing conductive films on flexible materials such as a polyimide Kapton polyethylene terephthalate or other suitable polymer.

As illustrated by the substrate may have any suitable shape. For example the substrate may be a cylindrical tube with circumferential substrate electrodes and circumferential ring separators disposed longitudinally along axis of the tube as shown in . Substrate may be formed in any suitable way such as by machining casting forming etc. For example substrate may be formed of a metal tube machined into the desired shape with a dielectric layer covering the metal. In some embodiments the desired shape may include ribs that are part of ring separators as shown in .

In some embodiments cylindrical substrate is substantially encircled by substrate electrodes that are oriented substantially perpendicular to membrane electrodes as depicted in . Each substrate electrode may be deposited on the substrate between adjacent ring separators making the substrate electrodes generally ring shaped.

Regardless of the configuration of the substrate some or all of the fabrication techniques described above may be used to form a capacitive array sensor. As illustrated by ring separators that encircle the substrate are oriented to mechanically decouple adjacent sensor regions axially along the cylindrical apparatus . Slits of membrane are oriented to mechanically decouple adjacent sensor regions azimuthally around the cylindrical apparatus .

The detail cross sectional view of the of substrate and membrane in further illustrates separators . Although depicted separators each include an adhesive element between two ribs other configurations of separators may be employed as the invention is not limited in this respect. However these examples are illustrative only and any suitable shape of non compliant or minimally compliant separators may be formed.

Both the detail plan view of the substrate in and the detail side cross sectional view of the substrate and the membrane in further illustrate the substrate electrodes and other aspects of exemplary embodiments. As illustrated separators need not have walls perpendicular to the surface of the substrate Here the separators are formed in part by machining concave grooves into the surface of substrate . In some embodiments one or more insulating layers may be disposed on floors of concave grooves . Substrate electrodes may be disposed on the insulating layers.

In some embodiments cylindrical substrate may be tubular with a substrate lumen . The tube may have an outer wall including holes for accessing substrate electrodes from within the substrate lumen . Wires carrying electrical signals to or from the substrate electrodes may be routed through the lumen.

Electrical connections to substrate electrodes such as through wires may extend through the holes . Wires may be part of a wiring harness. The wiring harness disposed within the substrate lumen may have a plurality of contact points each extending through a hole to a substrate electrode 

In some embodiments the wiring harness may be implemented as a flex circuit or using other similar suitable fabrication techniques. The contact points may be tabs extending from the flex circuit. Connections may be made to the substrate electrodes through the holes by soldering or otherwise making electrical connections between the tabs and the electrodes.

As a specific example a metal tube may be machined to have grooves. The walls of the grooves may form separator elements and electrodes may be formed on the floors of the grooves. Electrodes may be formed by first depositing an insulative layer over the metal and then depositing one or more conductive layers in a pattern corresponding to the substrate electrodes. As a specific example the conductive layers may include a nickel layer with a gold layer over the nickel.

A probe formed as described above is insensitive to bending and shear loads on the probe. Use of circumferential rings of the rigid or attached separation layer and the rigidity of the substrate itself make membrane deflection insensitive to bending and shear loads on the probe.

A probe with a 16 16 cylindrical array of sensors was built using the cylindrical apparatus sensor design depicted in . The substrate included a cylindrical metal member coated with dielectric material and plated to effect conducting electrode rings. shows a flattened membrane of the probe before it is applied to the cylindrical metal member of the probe. The flattened membrane includes axially oriented membrane electrode electrodes in the form of strips that face the cylindrical member and slits oriented parallel to the electrodes. shows the probe and wiring that connects the substrate electrodes and the membrane electrodes with electronics external to the probe . shows the probe with a thin elastomeric sheath fitted to the outside of the sensor apparatus.

As shown in a sensor array may be sized on a macro scale for applications requiring an array of sensing element that covers a macroscopically large area. The probe depicted in is sized for measuring a spatial distribution of pressure with a gastrointestinal tract. As is apparent from the the illustrated GI probe has a macro scale sensing array with dimensions between approximately 1 4 inches in length and between approximately 0.5 2 inches in circumference.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of making a capacitive multi dimensional sensing apparatus. Although the exemplary method may be used to make different configurations of capacitive multi dimensional sensing apparatuses an embodiment of the method will be described with respect to apparatus depicted in with respect to apparatus depicted in and with respect to apparatus depicted in solely for illustrative purposes.

The substrate includes elongated substrate electrodes . The separation layer includes one or more separators . The membrane includes one or more elongated membrane electrodes .

In some embodiments providing substrate includes machining a substrate body. In other embodiments providing substrate includes casting substrate or forming substrate using another suitable method. If substrate is machined or formed from a conductive material a dielectric layer may be deposited over the conductive material of the substrate. In some embodiments elongated substrate electrodes are deposited onto a substrate body. For example standard etching may be used to create elongated substrate electrodes . In other embodiments elongated substrate electrodes may be formed separately and attached to substrate by any suitable means or methods of attachment.

In some embodiments at least a portion of separators is monolithic with substrate . Portions of monolithic separators may be formed by machining or etching channels and or grooves into a substrate body. For example portions of monolithic separators may be produced using preformed epoxy strips and or computer numerical control CNC machining. In other embodiments no portion of separators is monolithic with substrate . In other embodiments providing substrate and separation layer may include depositing at least a portion of one or more separators on substrate .

In some embodiments one or more of separators may be formed separately. Method may further include attaching separators to substrate . Separators may be attached to substrate before membrane is attached to separators after membrane is attached to separators or while membrane is attached to separators as the invention is not limited in this respect.

In some embodiments membrane and membrane electrodes are produced with flex circuit type processing. As is known to one of skill in the art flex circuit type processing may include patterning through etching or other suitable processes conductive films on flexible substrates such as polyimide or Kapton polyethylene terephthalate or other suitable polymer membrane materials or any other material that is stable and elastomeric. Thus providing membrane having membrane electrodes may include patterning conductive film electrodes on a flexible polymer film in a desired shape.

In some embodiments providing a membrane may include forming a plurality of slits in the membrane. The plurality of slits may include an array of continuous slits . . . as depicted in and or the plurality of slits may include a two dimensional array of slits as depicted in . The plurality of slits may be formed parallel to membrane electrodes as depicted in perpendicular to membrane electrodes as depicted in or an another angle with respect to membrane electrodes . The slits may be configured to be oriented perpendicular to an orientation of spacers as shown in . The slits may be formed in any suitable way such as by punching out or laser cutting regions of the membrane.

Substrate is oriented relative to membrane so that each of at least two of elongated membrane electrodes intersects each of at least two of substrate electrodes forming a multi dimensional array of capacitive elements step . As described above the term intersecting may also be described as overlaying because substrate electrodes and the membrane electrodes remain separated by separators or a gap.

Separators of the separation layer are attached to the membrane by any suitable method or means step . Substrate may be oriented relative to membrane before separators are attached to membrane or after separators are attached to membrane . For example separators may be attached to membrane before substrate is oriented relative to membrane and separators may be attached to substrate after substrate is oriented relative to both separators and attached membrane .

Separation layer may be put under a compressive load when the separation layer is attached to the membrane . In some embodiments a separation hbetween the substrate and the membrane may remain constant while the membrane is being attached to the separation layer . For example the separation layer may include epoxy strips where the epoxy contains a matrix material such as a spacing aggregate of a controlled diameter that minimizes change in thickness during bonding between separators and membrane .

In some embodiments spacer elements e.g. glass beads teflon strips etc. may be positioned in open portions of separation layer . Spacer elements may be positioned before separators are attached to the membrane while separators are being attached to the membrane or after separators have been attached to the membrane . For example if membrane is attached to separators before separators are attached to substrate spacer elements may be into open portions of separation layer after membrane is attached to separators but before separators are attached to substrate . Spacer elements may remain in the open portions of the separation layer or may be temporary and removed after membrane separation layer and substrate are connected step .

In some embodiments a method of making a multidimensional array sensing apparatus may include applying an elastomeric outer layer over membrane step as shown in . As described above the elastomeric outer layer protects membrane and separates fluid i.e. liquid or gas in the gap between membrane and substrate from fluid outside apparatus when membrane includes slits.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a method of operating a multidimensional capacitive sensing apparatus. Although exemplary method may be used to operate different configurations of multidimensional array sensing apparatuses embodiment will be described with respect to apparatus depicted in and apparatus in depicted solely for illustrative purposes.

The apparatus may include a substrate having a plurality of substrate electrodes and a membrane having a plurality of membrane electrodes . Each of at least two of the substrate electrodes may intersect more than one membrane electrode . The intersections of substrate electrodes and membrane electrodes form a multidimensional array of capacitive elements . Apparatus include a separation layer having open portions corresponding to a plurality of sensor regions wherein the open portions do not comprise solid material.

As a result of pressure on the apparatus at least a first membrane portion corresponding to first a sensor region is deflected toward the substrate with a first pressure P stretching the first membrane portion while mechanically isolating adjacent sensor regions from the deflection step . A change in capacitance is measured between a substrate electrode and a membrane electrode corresponding to the deflection of membrane portion step . The method may also include determining a pressure exerted on membrane portion from the measured change in capacitance step .

The method may further include deflecting other membrane portions such as portion corresponding to a second sensor region toward the substrate by stretching membrane portion with a second pressure while mechanically isolating adjacent sensor regions from the second pressure and the increase in membrane tension and while deflecting the first membrane portion with the first pressure P. The method may include measuring a change in capacitance between a substrate electrode and a membrane electrode corresponding to the deflected second membrane portion

Having now described some illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing is merely illustrative and not limiting having been presented by way of example only. Numerous modifications and other illustrative embodiments are within the scope of one of ordinary skill in the art and are contemplated as falling within the scope of the invention. In particular although many of the examples presented herein involve specific combinations of method acts or system elements it should be understood that those acts and those elements may be combined in other ways to accomplish the same objectives. Acts elements and features discussed only in connection with one embodiment are not intended to be excluded from a similar role in other embodiments.

As used herein whether in the written description or the claims the terms comprising including carrying having containing involving and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of respectively shall be closed or semi closed transitional phrases as set forth with respect to claims in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures Original Eighth Edition August 2001 Section 2111.03

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

