---

title: Method for flexible, safe, robust, and efficient generation and serving of multi-source world-wide web content pages
abstract: The invention provides a method for flexibly, safely, robustly, and efficiently serving user interface pages composed of foreign content supplied by a third-party as well as local content supplied by the first party by allowing the cobrander to serve cobranded page templates. The cobrandee server retrieves the cobranded page templates from cobrander server and inserts the cobrandee contents into the cobranded page templates to generate cobranded Web content pages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07904531&OS=07904531&RS=07904531
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 07904531
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081010
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 358 762 filed 4 Feb. 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 447 747 which is incorporated by reference.

This invention relates generally to generation of Internet content. More particularly the invention relates to a method for flexibly safely robustly and efficiently serving user interface pages composed of foreign content supplied by a third party as well as local content supplied by a first party.

Presently the Internet has established itself a main force of information communication and the world wide Web has added new roles besides its originate purpose of sharing information. One of the new roles is to carry e commerce where commercial transactions are performed electronically through the world wide Web over the Internet. The Web contents have also evolved from simple static Web pages written in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML to dynamically generated Web pages via Web applications. Conducting e commerce over the Web is enabled by the Web applications that allow end users to interact with the server that hosts the Web applications. Forms are often inserted to HTML pages to capture the input requests of the end user and a server site application processes the requests generates responses and returns responses again in the format of HTML to the end user.

However the dynamic contents often require special development team to generate and maintain. Depending on the complexity of the content it could also take quite long time to make the dynamic content available to the on line community. Sometime it may be convenient and financially plausible to use Web contents and applications developed. As the requirement grows more organizations are providing dynamic contents that other organizations can share and present to their own users. These dynamic contents may provide essential features such as user registration and authentication or provide additional contents to be added to other organizations own Web contents. These dynamic contents are often required be cobrandable i.e. it should allow them to be configured to carry the logos or other brand content of parties which use them to present an impression of proprietary content to their own user.

The provider of the cobrandable dynamic Web contents is herein called a cobrandee and the party that uses the cobrandee s Web contents is herein called a cobrander. The Web content page that contains both the cobrandee s contents and the cobrander s contents is herein called a cobranded Web content page. The cobrander s contents are herein all called cobranding contents.

When serving cobranded Web content pages the provider of the cobrandable content provides the primary content such as a news story a network login form etc. and other organization provides secondary cobranding content such as a brand image and brand specific Web site navigation elements.

The usual method for implementing cobranded pages is for the cobrandable content offering organization the cobrandee to define the overall page structure and layout including predefining specific page locations into which categories of cobranding content are to be inserted. For example the cobrandee may predefine a fixed size spot for a cobrand image and another for some cobranding messaging. Then the cobranding organization i.e. the cobrander provides the contents for these cobranding locations. However this approach is often unattractive to the cobrander because it typically would like to have full control over the page layout and structure.

What is desired is a technique for flexible safe robust and efficient generation and serving of cobranded Web content pages. The technique should enable the cobrander to control the overall page structure and layout provide context sensitive cobrander contents and control where the cobrandee s contents appears in the cobranded Web content pages. At the same time the technique should enable the cobrandee to inspect the cobrander s contents and reject them if they violate the cobrandee s rules for allowable content efficiently and robustly generate the completed cobranded Web content pages and deliver the completed page to the end user.

This invention addresses the foregoing and other shortcomings of conventional methods for implementing cobranded pages by allowing the cobrander to serve cobranded page templates. The cobrandee server retrieves the cobranded page templates from cobrander server and inserts the cobrandee contents to the cobranded page templates to generate cobranded Web content pages.

In one embodiment it is disclosed a system for generating cobranded Web content pages. The system comprises a cobrandee server which provides cobrandable cobrandee contents and a cobrander server which provides cobranding cobrander contents wherein the cobrander server controls the overall page structure and layout of the cobranded Web content pages.

In another embodiment a method is disclosed for providing cobranded Web content pages to an end user. The method comprises the steps of 

In another embodiment a method is disclosed for providing cobranded Web content pages to an end user. In this embodiment the cobranded page template retrieved from the cobrander server may be store in a page template cache.

In another embodiment a system is disclosed for generating cobranded Web content pages. The system comprises 

Turning now to the drawings is a simplified diagrammatic view of a system for generating cobranded Web content pages according to one embodiment of the invention. The system primarily comprises a Web browsing device which an end user uses to browsing online contents a cobrandee server which provides contents which are cobrandable and a cobrander server which provides cobranding contents .

Conventionally a user opens the Web browsing device and browses to a URL hosted by the cobrandee server possible navigating from a site provided by the cobrander server. Upon receiving the user s request the cobrandee server invokes a retrieving module to retrieve a cobranded page template from the cobrander server . The cobrander server comprises a page template generating module to generate the cobranded page template and returns the cobranded page template to the cobrandee server . The cobrandee server then uses a validating module to check whether the cobranded page template violates any of the rules for allowable content. If the cobranded page template does not violate any of the rules for allowable content the cobrandee server uses a generating module to generate the cobranded Web content page by inserting cobrandee s cobrandable contents to the cobranded page template and returns to the Web browsing device where it is presented to the end user.

In step the cobrandee server requests a suitable cobrandee page template from the cobrander server while passing along the context values. The URL of the cobrandee page template has been provided to the cobrandee and available to the cobrandee server. The cobrander may also configure which contexts of the request to be passed along when the cobrandee server is requesting the cobranded page templates.

In step the cobrander server processes the request from the cobrandee server and returns the cobranded page template. The cobrander server can return a cobranded page template which is special to the set of received content of request of the end user.

The cobrandee server may fail to retrieve a cobranded page template from the cobrander server . This could be either because the cobrander chooses not to provide cobranded page templates at all or because the cobrander server fails to return a cobranded Web page template. In either case the cobrandee server uses a default page template and the flow continues to step . The cobrandee provides the default page template for the cobrander as a fallback to handle these cases. The default template may be configured by cobrander to include limited cobrander contents such as the cobrander s logo display name and benefit statements.

In step the cobrandee server receives the cobranded page template and checks that it does not violate any of the rules for allowable content. For example one of the rules for allowable content may be that the page template does not content JavaScript code. Another rule may be that the page template should not contain the HTML tag FRAME. The cobrandee server performs the check to ensure the page security and robust generation of cobranded Web content pages. If the cobranded page template passes the check the cobrandee server then moves on to step .

In step the cobrandee server inserts cobrandee contents to the cobranded page template. In one typical implementation the cobrandee server may require the cobranded page template comprise special tags which are used to specify locations where the cobrandee contents is to be inserted. In this implementation the cobrandee server replaces the special tags in the cobranded page template with corresponding cobrandee contents. The cobrander may also supply configuration parameters to the cobrandee to control the visual effects of the cobrandee contents which are to be inserted into the cobranded page template. Using these configuration parameters the cobrander is able to make sure that the cobrandee contents match the look and feel of the pages served by the cobrander server. If such configuration parameters have been provided and available to the cobrandee server the cobrandee server then renders the cobrandee contents according to the configuration parameters.

The returned cobranded Web page may violate any the rules for allowable content . In this case the default page template is used and the flow continues to step .

In step the cobrandee server returns the completed cobranded Web content page to the Web browsing device where it is to be presented to the end user. The method ends at .

Method starts at . In step the end user requests a cobranded Web content page from the cobrandee server . The requests typically come when a user follows a link on a Web page which is served by the cobrander server by a navigating means in the Web browsing device . After receiving the request the cobrandee server analyzes the content of the request such as the Web page the user the state of the browsing session.

In step the cobrandee server obtains a suitable cobrandee page template. The cobrandee server first tries to find a cobranded page template from the page template cache and request from the cobrander server if no valid page template is found. Details of this step are described below as illustrated in .

In step the cobrandee server inserts cobrandee contents to the cobranded page template. In one typical implementation the cobrandee server may require the cobranded page template comprise special tags which are used to specify locations where the cobrandee contents is to be inserted. In this implementation the cobrandee server replaces the special tags in the cobranded page template with corresponding cobrandee contents. The cobrander may also supply configuration parameters to the cobrandee to control the visual effects of the cobrandee contents which are to be inserted into the cobranded page template. Using these configuration parameters the cobrander is able to make sure that the cobrandee contents match with the look and feel of the pages served by the cobrander server. If such configuration parameters have been provided and available to the cobrandee server the cobrandee server then renders the cobrandee contents according the configuration parameters.

In step the cobrandee server returns the completed cobranded Web content page to the Web browsing device where it is to be presented to the end user. The method ends at .

In step a cobranded page template is found in the page template cache. The cobranded page template matches the context of the request of the end user and is unexpired. In step the cobranded page template is retrieved from the page template cache. This cobranded page template is to be used in step to generate a cobranded Web content page.

If no cobranded page template can be retrieved from the page template cache the flow then continues to step . In step the cobrandee server requests a suitable cobrandee page template from the cobrander server while passing along the context values. The URL of the cobrandee page template has been provided to the cobrandee and available to the cobrandee server. The cobrander may also configure which contexts of the request to be passed along when the cobrandee server is requesting the cobranded page templates.

In step the cobrander server processes the request from the cobrandee server and returns the cobranded page template. The cobrander server can return a cobranded page template which is special to the content of the request of the end user.

Again the cobrandee server may fail to retrieve a cobranded page template from the cobrander server . This could be either because the cobrander chooses not to provide cobranded page templates at all or because the cobrander server fails to return a cobranded Web page template. In either case the cobrandee server uses the default page template and the flow continues to step .

In step the cobrandee server receives the cobranded page template and checks that it does not violate any of the rules for allowable content. For example one of the rules for allowable content may be that the page template does not content JavaScript code. Another rule may be that the page template should not contain the HTML tag FRAME. The cobrandee server performs the check to ensure the page security and robust generation of cobranded Web content pages. If the cobranded page template passes the check the cobrandee server then moves on to step .

The returned cobranded Web page may violate any the rules for allowable content . In this case the default page template is used and the flow continues to step .

In step the cobrandee server evaluates heuristics to determine whether the newly retrieved cobranded page template is to be stored in the page template cache. If so store the cobranded page template in the page template cache. The newly retrieved cobranded page template is also used in step to generate a cobranded Web content page. The flow ends at .

The cobrander may provide a timeout value configuration parameter to control when cobranded page template stored in the page template cache expires. If such a configuration parameter is not provided then a default timeout value is used when determine whether a cached cobranded page template is expired.

As described above a default cobrander template is also provided for the cobrander by the cobrandee. The default template will be used as a fallback template in case that the cobrandee server fails to retrieve a cobranded page template from the cobrander server of the retrieved cobranded page template violates any of the rules for allowable contents.

Therefore this invention as illustrated in above embodiments provides a technique for flexible safe robust and efficient generation and serving of multi source world wide Web content pages such as cobranded pages. The technique presented herein greatly improves the degree of page control for the cobrander while preserving the cobrandee s ability to server the pages to the end user in a secure and efficient way. In particular the method enables the cobrander to 

From the foregoing it can be seen that a system designed in accordance with the this invention provides a versatile efficient and personalized Internet interface for specialized applications particularly with respect to automating certain interactions which ordinarily must be completed manually. The preferred embodiments disclosed herein have been described and illustrated by way of example only and not by way of limitation. Other modifications and variations to the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing detailed disclosure. While only certain embodiments of the invention have been specifically described herein it will be apparent that numerous modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

