---

title: System and method for generating a context enhanced work of communication
abstract: A system for selecting, managing, sharing and displaying narrative data files in a manner that takes into the account the contextual significance of said narrative data files to a narrative, an author(s) and an audience. A system that is able to place an absolute and relative value upon the significance of a media object is able to assist in stimulating the recollection of the author and audience, thus making every aspect more memorable and enhancing by improving the ease of use and the quality of the final result of the use of the system of this invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08219513&OS=08219513&RS=08219513
owner: Eastman Kodak Company
number: 08219513
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
The present invention relates to the field of authoring works of communication and in particular the creation sharing and editing of works of communication and in particular to a system for selecting managing sharing and displaying narrative data and contextual data according to the contextual significance of narrative nodes and narrative and contextual data of the work with respect to each other and to one or more of an author a character in the work or one or more audience members.

There is a constant common and critical need to communicate information of a wide range of types and for a wide range of purposes and through a wide range of media. While the types of information that are communicated the reasons and purposes for which it is communicated the forms in which it is communicated and the means by which it is communicated are effectively unlimited the effectiveness of a given communication is as is well known fundamentally dependent on the structure and content of the communication.

For example and briefly considering communications in general all communications whether comprised of text images video or audio data of any form or any combination thereof generally take the form of one or more narrative nodes wherein each narrative node contains at a minimum a narrative content that comprises the minimum essential information that is to be conveyed by that node. The nodes are in turn arranged according to a structure referred to as a narrative that defines the relationships between the nodes and thus arranges the narrative contents of the nodes into a coherent presentation of the content of the narrative. The information contained in a given communication is then conveyed to a recipient in a coherent meaningful form when the recipient traverses the nodes of the communication along the paths or linkages comprising and defined by the narrative.

The bare narrative structure described above is often sufficient for certain communications specifically those communications wherein the possible range of meanings that can be attached to the narrative contents is very restricted and known to both the author and the recipient of a communication. Examples of such may include for example mechanistic communications such as data or control command communications between computer systems. It is well known however that in general the information conveyed is significantly increased the chances of ambiguity or misunderstanding significantly reduced and the information is made significantly more meaningful if the communication contains further information essentially defining the meaning or possible meanings of the narrative contents to the author and recipient.

Such additional information is generally referred to as contextual information and is information that is generally not strictly necessary to convey the narrative content of the communication but provides additional information that assists in understanding of the basic narrative and involves the audience more deeply into the narrative while providing a richer and more detailed narration. Suitably chosen and employed contextual information for example provides additional information and details to a recipient both directly and indirectly that is by direct narration of the information and by allusion association and indirect reference to invoke the emotions memories and personal knowledge and experiences of the members of the audience.

It is noted that the problems of seeking out locating and accessing information pertinent to a work have been significantly reduced by contemporary information resources including the internet and electronically accessible database and such facilities and tools as contemporary search engines. There remains a significant problem however with respect to the organization and selection of contextual information appropriate to the desired goal of enhancing a given work which is often further compounded by the flood of contextual information that has become readily available through contemporary information search and recovery methods. That is given the vast amounts of contextual information that may be available to an author it is often difficult for the author to determine just what contextual information is available the significance of the available contextual information and the relationships and degrees of relevancy between the contextual information and between the contextual and narrative information.

The invention is defined by the claims. An important aspect of the present invention resides in the value of combining social networks and narrative networks and then visualizing the subsequent relationships from within the network as a 3 D landscape where significance functions as perspective. In some of the broader aspects of the invention a method and a system are provided for authoring a work of communication comprised of one or more narrative nodes wherein each narrative node includes narrative content and wherein the narrative content of each node is stored in one or more narrative data files associated with the node. Narrative content will typically include a range of types or classes of information and data related to the subject matter of the node. For example a narrative data file may include information pertaining or related to any subject e.g. work school vacations weddings family infancy childhood sports games and military service. In a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention a narrative data file will typically contain a single type or class of narrative content data and closely related types of information. For example a given narrative data file C may contain information of the type or class designated as fun and will then typically contain information pertaining to play sports music puzzle solving gaming hunting and so on.

By way of a more specific example the present invention provides a unique method and structure for producing a highly manageable and pertinent narrative and contextual work for presentation and communication of a desired topic or subject matter. The disclosed method and structure provides an efficient tool which allows an author or a presenter of the topic or subject matter to easily select organize and modify the work for presentation to a group or just for the author s own use. An exemplary topic for better understanding the present invention could be a historical work relating to the Presidents of the United States. The topic could of course cover a single President a specific period of time including several Presidents or even a continuous history of all the Presidents in relation to U.S. history and their time in office.

Choosing for this example to create a broad work including all the Presidents for presentation to an audience say a college history class the elements of the work might be initially organized by defining each narrative node as encompassing each President s term in office. The narrative content of each node can then include various types of media corresponding to that President for example photos video clips newspaper and periodical articles relating to the President s background family situations political affiliations congressional experience and occurrence s etc. Other media could include for example voice over audio relating milestones accomplishments and failures of the President s administration in the context of general historical events occurring during the President s term. All of this narrative information is of course maintained in narrative data files associated with the narrative node although the narrative data files can be flexibly associated with any narrative node for example those narrative nodes defining another President s term should the need arise.

An important aspect of the work is the perspective of the work. This perspective or view as classically defined could be that of an author a performer an audience or group of people or interests. This perspective can be defined and controlled by a virtual perspective space represented by a multi dimensional polar coordinate space about an origin defining narrative node. An example of such a perspective is a radar view as discussed with respect to herein including numerous perspectives.

In the present example the polar coordinates could be accordingly defined according to major political parties of the time period. Using Abraham Lincoln and his term of office as the exemplary narrative node the polar coordinates for a perspective view of this time period in a political context could be appropriately segregated into four 4 major parties of the time period Whigs Know Nothings Republicans and Democrats. Where the Whigs and Know Nothings parties faded away early after Lincoln s election to his first term or even before these fields of view would be particularly narrow and not include many objects of significance. The larger fields of view in this radar view would of course be the Democrat and Republican fields of view. Other fields of view might be related on the same or different radar view the economic and political tendencies of the U.S. as it was regionally motivated for example North South and Western States could have field of views of Lincoln his policies and the war which might overlap with one another or even the political party s fields of view.

The radial spaced rings of this radar view represent proportionally decreasing significance as they extend farther from the origin narrative node. In this way objects of significance which are represented by an appropriate icon are aligned throughout the polar coordinate system according to a view point of the object of significance for example the differing views regarding slavery by Democrats and Republicans. The icons representing these objects of significance can relay both an absolute significance represented by the size of the icon relative to other icons as well as a personal significance to the author which is conveyed via the proximity of the icon to the origin. Because slavery was such a critical issue in Lincolns presidency these objects of significance icons containing differing view points regarding slavery are extremely large compared to other icons and maintained closer to the origin where they are considered highly significant. Objects of interest such as Mary Todd Lincoln and their children might be represented by smaller icons and because this would be of slightly less interest in the context of U.S. history such family relations icon would thus be depicted with a smaller sized icon indicating their lower absolute significance. Narrative content for the slavery issues would include photographs contemporary articles for and against slavery personal accounts recorded in audio voice overs.

If for instance the field of view selected was that of the Lincoln s Republicans then objects of significance to this party such as the Lincoln Douglas debates and objects intending to stop the spread of slavery to the western states would be considered highly significant and thus placed closer to the narrative node center within the Republican field of view. On the other hand seen through the Democratic field of view the Dred Scott case would be an object of high significance for supporting their position with regards to states rights and slavery.

A vector of personal significance may be used to align and define a specific point of view within a desired field of view. A slider control can define the ranges of relative significance of the objects of significance along this vector as well as selecting a desired object of significance. For example assuming a vector of personal significance in the Republican field of view extends through objects of interest including critical battles of the civil war. The slider can assist in selecting a range of the critical battles which represent the turning point in the war from the Republican or North point of view. The user would adjust sliders to select a range including the battles of Vicksburg and Gettysburg and filtering out the other battles in this case.

In general in this example the transition from one narrative node to the next could be linear i.e. Lincoln s narrative node to Andrew Johnson s narrative node. Alternatively it is to be appreciated that transitions do not have to be linear. Lincolns narrative could be transitioned for example into more contemporary presidents involved with civil rights for example the John F. Kennedy narrative node and the civil rights act.

Also different fields of view i.e. perspective may be used within the same narrative nodes to relate two sides of a portion of the narrative. In other words the categorization of media is not restricted to any single perspective. Two different perspectives can access the same media where appropriate. For instance the Lincoln Douglas Debates would relate two different views of states rights and slavery. Here Douglas view and object of significance would be allocated in the Democratic field of view and Lincoln s would of course be found in the Republican field of view. Both the Democratic and Republican field of view are categorized separately but of course accessible by the perspective allocated to the author actor or audience of the work. The radial view could be used to show relationships between media and perspectives by for example highlighting the same media item in all fields of view when a user selects that media item from one field of view e.g. hovering the mouse cursor over an editorial on slavery in the Republican field of view could use color highlighting to indicate where that same media item is located in each of the other fields of view where the distance of each highlighted item from the center of the narrative node would indicate the relative significance of that item within the corresponding field of view perspective that is relative significance to the Republicans versus to the Democrats versus the Whigs versus the Know Nothings.

As can be appreciated by the above example this narrative and authoring structure would allow a tremendous amount of flexibility in regards to both the authorship and audience. Besides the broad example above the Author can drill down into the narrative nodes for more specific data. For example the Author may produce the work solely for the Author s own benefit in the case of academic research to support a proposition about the Union Army under Lincoln s overall command. For instance attempting to prove the proposition that Lincoln s was well liked by the soldiers but his own General s in the Union Army had little respect for his skills as Commander in Chief. The fields of view could be changed between that of the different commanders and the sliders could filter media based upon a selected range of significance where the soldier s and General s own diaries letters and correspondence are the significant objects of interest.

In another embodiment the radar view can be adapted to an alternative GUI or virtual world metaphor where the Author can view and traverse this GUI defining specific fields of view just as with the radar example. For example the GUI might be a topographical representation of the Gettysburg battlefield and how Lincoln s orders affected the Generals in their respective positions and actions throughout the battlefield. An avatar could move across the battlefield and among the commanders attaining their perspectives and fields of view according to the significance that the avatar wants to place on any given General s perspective. The virtual world is not limited to geographically related nodes. In a more general sense from any given location the avatar can be turned in any direction to alter the field of view and the avatar can be moved in a direction or along a vector that changes the range of significance of that view as well. Considering the virtual world to be a view of Lincoln s presidency moving the avatar in any given direction could point the narrative towards different political perspectives Democrats Republicans Whigs etc. and moving the avatar in a particular direction would change the relative significance of the political perspective in the narrative.

It is to be appreciated that the flexibility of the described method and system for developing and presenting a narrative for any given subject lends itself to being a valuable tool in any potential collaborative aspect between an author and a performer and author and an audience or any combination of the same. By way of example a starting narrative structure guided by the author with regards to initial narrative content of the work may be based on the personal knowledge and viewpoint of the author but the narrative can be easily altered according to content considered to have greater or different significance from the point of view of a performer and or an audience. This results from the relationship between the available narrative content and the person s i.e. author performer audience associations with developing the work containing the narrative content. In a view of Lincoln s presidency initiated by an author a performer may identify different possible combinations and correlations between information in the databases which were not considered by the author because of the performer s unique relationship in interacting with the work. A performer as opposed to an author might more readily realize the compassionate peaceful and family oriented nature of Lincoln s personality. The performers insight might raise the significance of this aspect or point of view of Lincoln in relation to the political and military aspects of his presidency. This insight could correlate to and reveal insights regarding Lincoln s reconciliation and reconstruction policies which allowed the North and the South to move forward politically socially and economically despite the divisive war and Lincoln s assassination.

This present invention relates specifically to a method of presenting information on a display the method comprising the steps of identifying an audience to which information is to be displayed accessing from a storage medium first information having a first relative significance to the audience and accessing from the storage medium second information having a second relative significance to the audience different than the first relative significance identifying a point of view from which the audience will view at least the first information and the second information determining a first distance from the point of view for the first information based at least upon the first relative significance determining a second distance from the point of view for the second information based at least upon the second relative significance displaying the first information and the second information on the display in a manner that reflects the first distance and the second distance.

The present invention also relates to a method and system for structuring a work of authorship for presentation on a visual display the method comprising the steps of defining a plurality of narrative nodes for receiving narrative content data stored in at least one narrative data file in a data storage medium associating desired narrative content data by a link with at least one narrative node to provide the at least one narrative node with pertinent subject matter relating to the work of authorship arranging the narrative nodes in a desired sequence to provide an organizational structure for the work of authorship and displaying the work of authorship to a recipient which includes an author performer audience or any such person or group receiving and or interacting with the work on the visual display.

The present invention still further relates to a method and system of generating a work of authorship for presentation on a visual display the method and system comprising the steps of designating one or more narrative content items that are to be included in the work of authorship retrieving the narrative content items from at least one of a narrative content storage location and data file filtering the retrieved narrative content according to predetermined criteria to obtain a desired range of narrative content compatible with an intended framework of the work of authorship and incorporating the desired range of narrative content into the work of authorship by associating the content with at least a respective content node positioned in sequence with a plurality of other content nodes defining the framework of the work of authorship.

The following is a detailed description of preferred embodiments of the invention reference being made to the drawings in which the same reference numerals identify the same elements of structure in each of the several figures.

The following will first describe a method and system for organizing and structuring a work of authorship comprised of a narrative structure that includes narrative nodes containing both narrative content and contextual content relating to the narrative content the narrative. As will be described the relative significance of narrative content to the narrative structure and of the contextual content to the narrative content and narrative structure are adaptable to characteristics of the author and the intended audience of the work to maximize the effectiveness of the work. The following will then describe a system for seeking locating accessing and retrieving narrative and contextual content for a work of authorship and for selecting the contextual content to be incorporate into a work according to the goals of the work and the characteristics of for example the author and the intended audience.

Referring to therein is illustrated the elements and structure of a work of authorship comprised of one or more narrative nodes A wherein each narrative node A includes narrative content B and wherein the narrative content B of each node A is stored in one or more narrative data files C associated with the node A. Narrative content B will include at a minimum the minimum essential information that is to be conveyed by the associated node A but will typically include a range of types or classes of information and data related to the subject matter of the node A. For example a narrative data file C may include information pertaining or related to work school vacations weddings family infancy childhood sports games and military service. A narrative data file C may include one or more narrative content type identifiers D indicating the type or types of narrative content B contained therein. In a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention however a narrative data file C will typically contain a single type or class of narrative content data B and closely related types of information. For example a given narrative data file C may contain information of the type or class designated as fun and will then typically contain information pertaining to play sports music puzzle solving gaming hunting and so on.

Lastly with regard to narrative data files C it will be noted that as indicated in each narrative data file C will typically also include one or more context indicators E that identify the types or classes of contextual content A discussed in detail below that may relate to or be of significance with regard to the narrative content B of the narrative data file C. In this regard it must be noted that context indicators E may be expressed explicitly in narrative data files C for example by prior analysis of the narrative contents B of narrative data files C and storing the results of the analyses in data fields of the narrative data files C. In a presently preferred embodiment of the method of the present invention however context indicators E are instead inherent and implicit in narrative data files C being contained within and comprised of the narrative content B of the narrative data files C. In the presently preferred embodiment the context indicators E of a given narrative data file C are determined during the process in which the narrative content B of the narrative data file C is selected for inclusion in a work by analysis of the narrative content B according to rules defining various types of contextual content A.

As discussed previously a work is defined by the sequence in which information is presented to a recipient the recipient can be for example one or more of an audience an author or user of the work effecting and or receiving the sequence or sequences in which the narrative data files C are traversed to present the information therein. Nodes A are thereby arranged according to a narrative structure A which is an organizational structure that defines relationships between the nodes A of a work . The contents of a work are conveyed to a recipient according to the sequence or narrative path P by which the nodes A of the narrative structure A are traversed and the narrative structure A structure thereby arranges the narrative contents B of the nodes A into a coherent presentation of the information contained in nodes A according to the intents and purposes of the work .

A narrative structure A may express many different types of relationship or relationships between nodes A and in itself defines and imposes a relationship among the nodes A of a work and thus among the narrative contents B of the nodes A. For example many works such as a description of a technical or scientific process a fictional story or a description of historical events are necessarily comprised of linear sequences of information and as a consequence it is necessary for the nodes A of the work to be traversed in a specified sequence or narrative path P. In such cases the nodes A will be related and presented primarily according to the narrative requirements of the work and will thereby be related and presented according to a narrative structure A structure imposed by the narrative requirements of the work . It must be noted however that the nodes A in a narrative structure A may be arranged according to more than one aspect of the narrative. For example a narrative structure A may be comprised of temporal sub sequences within one or more overall temporal sequences or according to geographic relationships within one of more overall temporal sequences such as may be seen in travelogues.

The relationships between nodes B of a narrative structure A and thus the structure of the narrative structure A may also be dependent for example on the narrative contents B of the nodes A. For example the node A may contain narrative contents B having temporal relationships such as sequences of events in time or geographic relationships such as the geographic relationships among Boston and the towns of eastern Massachusetts or subject matter relationships such as art or medicine. These relationships will in turn be at least inherently or implicitly reflected in the narrative structure A. In further example the narrative contents B of the nodes A may also express or represent relative relationships that are in turn reflected in the narrative structure A. For example certain events described in the narrative contents B of nodes A may be closely related in time while others are more distant in time and these temporal relationships may be at least inherently reflected in the relationships between the nodes A of the narrative structure A. Yet other narrative contents B that may expressly or inherently affect the narrative structure A may express for example relationships defined by multiple factors. For example in a work comprising a historical narrative the narrative contents B of groups of nodes A are related according to a sequence in time but the narrative contents B of nodes A within a given group may be associated and linked by geographical relationships.

As also discussed previously a work will typically further include contextual content A that may be associated with and related to the narrative content B in the narrative nodes A of a narrative structure A wherein as discussed previously contextual information provides additional information and details to a recipient both directly and indirectly both by direct narration of the information and by allusion association and indirect reference to invoke the emotions memories and personal knowledge and experiences of the members of the audience. As discussed if the contextual content A selected to be associated with items of narrative content B of a work is suitably selected in consideration of the knowledge experiences and personality of the author and audience of the work the effectiveness of the work will be significantly enhanced.

As indicated in contextual content A is typically stored in context data files B wherein each context data file B contains one or more context content A items of one or more types or classifications of contextual information A. In certain embodiments of the present invention context data files B may also contain corresponding context type identifiers C identifying the types or classes of contextual content A contained therein. In other embodiments however the context type identifiers C may be determined for a given context data file B at the time contextual content A is being sought for inclusion in a work and by analysis of the contextual content A of the context data file B according to rules defining the various types of context content A.

In this regard and according to the present invention context data files B and their contextual content A may thereby be considered as members of one or more contextual frameworks D wherein each contextual framework D relates to a given type or classification of context. For example the context data files B of a chronological contextual framework D will contain contextual content A that is chronologically related to the narrative content B of narrative data files C. A geographical contextual framework D will contain contextual content A related to the narrative content B by geographical factors such as geographical location. Yet other contextual frameworks D may pertain for example to date and or time family or business relationships personal interests school history medical history various forms of subject matter and so on for any definable type of context relationship and may include transient as well as longer term relationships. Contextual frameworks D may also be defined as global that is as applicable to a wide range of contextual content A or narrative content A such as a general class of person or locations or local that is as limited to a narrowly defined range of contextual content A or narrative content B such as a very limited group of persons or a specific location and so on.

The membership of a body of contextual content A in a given contextual framework D that is in a type or classification of contextual information is determined by a set of contextual rules defined for that contextual framework D that is for that type or classification of context content A. The contextual rules used in determining and prioritizing membership of a particular type or classification of context may be for example binary that is yes or no or probabilistic statistical and contextual rules used in a particular contextual framework can be determined heuristically or by use of automated classification techniques well known to those of skill in the art such as use of a genetic algorithm.

As discussed above and as will be discussed in further detail in a following description the context indicators E in narrative data files C indicate the types or classes of contextual content A that may relate to the narrative content B therein thereby relating the narrative content B of each narrative data file C to one or more possible types or classes of contextual content A and one or more corresponding contextual frameworks D. As described above context indicators E may be expressed explicitly in narrative data files C for example by prior analysis of the narrative contents B of narrative data files C and storing the results of the analyses in data fields of the narrative data files C. In a presently preferred embodiment of the method of the present invention however context indicators E are instead inherent and implicit in narrative data files C being contained within and comprised of the narrative content B of the narrative data files C. In the presently preferred embodiment the context indicators E of a given narrative data file C are determined during the process in which the narrative content B of the narrative data file C is selected for inclusion in a work by analysis of the narrative content B according to rules defining various types of contextual content A.

Each narrative node A of a narrative structure A has links B with other elements of the narrative structure A including but not limited to one or more nodes A narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B. Each such link may exist in one or more of a plurality of functional states such as the required optional active or inactive states wherein the state of a link may be modified for example during presentation of the work either automatically or under control of the author or a performer to adapt the material presented to the audience according to the reactions of the audience.

In addition to the links to or from the narrative nodes A there will typically be additional links between for example narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B at one or more levels of interconnection between the narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B. For example the author performer may choose an optional link to a contextual data file C to display a scene typical of the Chicago lakefront in 1955. The selection of the contextual data file C may produce in turn an additional set of links that are required optional or inactive. The system and method of the present invention therefore includes the capability to look ahead of the currently selected narrative node A to identify locate and sort for narrative data files C or context data files B of potential significance to the author performers characters or audience members in at least one subsequent narrative node A.

It is well known and accepted in all forms of communication including for example fiction and non fiction writing music and movies actual or potential impact of a given body of narrative content B or contextual content A on a work and the audience is a function of and determined by the significance of the narrative the narrative content B and the contextual content A of a work to each other and to the author and the intended audience of a work . The actual or potential impact of a given body of narrative content B or contextual content A on a work and the audience may be summarized in brief and simply as dependent upon the number of audience members effected the degree or severity of the impact the duration of the impact and the degree and significance of the result effects on the work and the effected members of the audience.

In this regard it must be noted that while significance of an element of a work may be measured in absolute terms that is in terms of the overall general significance of the element to the work or to works in general. According to the present invention however the significance of a given element of a work is more usefully measured and defined in terms of the relative significance of the element with respect to other elements of the work such as a narrative node A a narrative data file C a context data file B or a person or persons associated with the work such as an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character of the work .

As will be described in detail in the following the present invention provides a method and system for selecting and controlling the relative significance of these elements to each other and to the author and intended audience according to the intended goals and objects of the work and characteristics of the author and audience to optimize the effectiveness of the work . As will also be described the present invention further provides a method and system for adjusting or adapting the choice of contextual content A under guidance of the characteristics and responses of the author and audience even during presentation of the work to further optimize the effectiveness of the work. For example an author may wish to invoke an emotional or atmospheric response in the audience and may elect to do so by including music or a reference to music that is contextual content A selected to induce the desired response. This in turn requires that the author select music having the appropriate relationship to both the narrative content B and the personal characteristics of the audience such as the general age probable interests background and cultural characteristics including the musical experiences and tastes of the average audience member. If the work is a live performance such as a music performance or speech the author may note the responses of the audience either by direct observation or for example through appropriate sensor systems and adjust the contextual contents A of upcoming nodes A accordingly to gain the desired responses.

Therefore considering the effects of contextual content A on the narrative of a work and the narrative structure A and narrative content B of the work the effect of given contextual content A in a work is dependent in part upon its relevance to and impact upon the audience and the elements of the work . The relevance of a given body of contextual content A to an audience and to the work is dependent for example on its relationship to the intended object of the work the narrative node A with which it is associated that is the point at which it appears in the narrative structure A and the specific narrative content B with which it is to be associated. For example the author of a biographical work may wish to include contextual content A comprising a photograph of the subject s home during the subject s youth. This contextual content A will most suitable appear in a narrative node A located in an early part of the narrative structure A unless the author wishes to have a flashback scene about an event in the subject s early schooling and a photograph of the residence as it existed during the subject s youth would probably be notably more significant that a recent photograph of the residence. In further example an author wishing to invoke a particular emotional or intellectual response allusion or shared memories or experiences in members of the intended audience may elect to do so by introducing contextual content A in the form of music that in the audience s minds will be associated with or will induce the desired responses. In order to accomplish these responses however the music must be selected so as to have a high degree of relevance with the audience member s ages possible shared experiences and cultural educational and musical background and experiences and of course with the type of desired emotional or intellectual response.

The significance of a particular item of content is also a function of the perspective wherein perspective may be defined as the narrative context in which the significance is defined measured or viewed. For example the significance of an item or body of content to a particular person or group or class of persons may be defined as personal while the significance of the item or body of content to a larger group of which the particular person or group or class of persons is a member may be defined as the general or global perspective that that item or body of content. In the first instance the context or perspective of the significance is personal or local in that it is measured over for example a relative small effected group or over a relative small span of events while in the second instance the perspective is global that is wider or further because the significance is measured for example over a larger group of persons or over a longer span of events.

The perspective of an item or body of content to individual persons or groups may be a function of a number of factors such as the spatiotemporal proximity or displacement or the person or group with respect to the content the degree of their personal involvement with the content or the personal impact of the content on the person or group. For example a person s personal relationship perspective with respect to an event will be different depending upon whether they or someone of importance to them are involved or whether it is someone they know that is involved or whether the event is only or remote academic interest. In a like manner spatiotemporal perspective is for example the difference in significance to a person or group of events that are far removed in time or distance such as a remote historic event or an event occurring in a little known distinct place compared to events that are contemporary or local. It must be recognized however that the relative weights given to each factor in determining the perspective significance of content to a person or group will typically be a function of the person or group and the content. That is a historic event may be of greater significance to a particular group than many contemporary events.

The significance of content to a person or group may also be a function of narrative perspective that is the point in a narrative from which the content is perceived. For example the significance of an item of content that is introduced in an early narrative node A may not become apparent or may not reach its full impact until a subsequent narrative node A as in the case of foreshadowing .

Finally and according to the present invention the significance of two or more elements of a work to each other such as between or among narrative nodes A items of narrative or contextual content or one or more persons associated with a work such as an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character of the work is typically directional. That is and for purposes of the present invention the direction of a relationship or the significance of a relationship is a function of the influence or dependency between the elements of the work . For example a narrative data file C may be significant to a narrative node A such as by providing narrative content B that defines and comprises at least a part of the narrative node A and the direction of the relationship or significance would be from the narrative data file C to the narrative node A. In the reverse instance however the narrative node A may for example define at least a part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C and the direction of the relationship would be from the narrative node A to the narrative data file C. The influence or relationship between elements of a work may also be bidirectional. That is and using the same example the narrative content B of the narrative data file C may define some aspect of the narrative node A and the narrative node A may define a part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C.

As discussed above the significance of a particular item or body of content is a function of perspective wherein perspective may be defined as the significance of an item or body of content to a particular person or group or class of persons under specific circumstances of the narrative embodied in the work . According to the present invention perspective may for example be a function of the spatiotemporal proximity or displacement or the person or group with respect to the content that is whether an event is remote or local in time or space personal proximity or displacement that is the degree of their personal involvement with the content or the degree of personal impact of the content or narrative perspective that is the point in a narrative from which the content is perceived or viewed.

The present invention further includes the concept of virtual perspective which is an expression and embodiment of the relationship between narrative data files C and a narrative node A in the context of a narrative path P by which the nodes A of the narrative structure A are traversed to present the narrative and contextual content B and A or the work . According to the present invention virtual perspective is a mechanism by which narrative and context data files C and B can be organized and presented to represent the manner in which individuals or groups actually perceive the world and the relative significance of narrative content and context content represented in a work .

According to the present invention and as will be discussed in detail in the following the characteristics of relationships between for example narrative nodes A narrative and context data files C and B and their narrative and contextual contents B and A and individuals or groups of individuals associated with the work are not limited to absolute or relative significance. According to the present invention the characteristics of the possible relationships between the elements of a work may also include direction wherein for purposes of the present invention relationships direction represents influence or dependency between two elements of a work . For example a narrative data file C may be significant to a narrative node A such as by providing narrative content B that defines and comprises at least a part of the narrative node A. In this case the direction of the relationship between the narrative node A and narrative data file C would be from the narrative data file C to the narrative node A. That is in this example the narrative data file C influences the narrative node A but the narrative node A may not influence the narrative data file C that is the narrative node A does not define any part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C which has an existence independent of the narrative node A. In the reverse instance however the narrative node A may for example define at least a part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C and the direction of the relationship would be from the narrative node A to the narrative data file C. In a further example the influence between the narrative node A and the narrative data file C may be bidirectional. That is the narrative content B of the narrative data file C may define some aspect of the narrative node A and the narrative node A may define a part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C.

In a preferred embodiment of the systems and methods of the present invention therefore the relationship between elements of a work will includes direction as well as for example the strength of the relationship. Accordingly the direction of a relationship may in the present invention be graphically as well as conceptually represented by arrowed lines including both mono and bi directional lines as indicated by the locations and or orientations of the arrows.

As will be described in detail in a following description the method and system of the present invention considers the effects of an item of narrative or contextual content from the viewpoint of perspective as well as the more general considerations of significance.

Content input system may include any form of system apparatus of device that can supply narrative or contextual content B or A to processor wherein narrative or contextual content B or A may be comprised for example of digital or analog data comprising text still or sequential images video audio data or any other form of information capable of being used as narrative or contextual content B or A. Content input system may for example include personal computers cell phones other computer systems local or remote sensors for capturing narrative or contextual content B or A and or local or remote storage devices for storing and providing narrative or contextual content B or A and may include a communication system for communicating narrative or contextual content B or A between sensors and or storage devices and processor . Sensors may for example include environmental sensors to detect environmental conditions audio or visual sensors or cameras or other devices to capture audio data or still or moving images in a range of spectrums and biometric sensors for measuring physical and mental reactions including voice inflection body movement eye movement pupil dilation body temperature and p4000 wave sensors as well as any other types of sensors capable of capturing data usable as narrative or contextual content B or A. Storage devices may in turn include any local or remote device system or apparatus capable of storing and providing digital or analog data that is capable of being employed as narrative or contextual content B or A. Examples of such may include various forms of hard disk drives or removable media disk drives using for example optical or magnetic storage media or magnetic or optical memory cards or devices other forms of solid state magnetic or optical memories or storage devices. Yet other devices or systems usable in a content input system for providing narrative of contextual content B or A may include two and three dimensional scanning reading devices for reading data from images documents three dimensional objects and so on.

Communication system can comprise for example one or more optical radio frequency or other transducer circuits or other systems such as the internet a cellular peer to peer or other form of mobile telecommunication network a local communication network such as wired or wireless local area network or any other conventional wired or wireless data transfer system that cam transmit narrative content B or contextual content A to or receive narrative or contextual content B or A from a remote device or system such as remote memory system or remote display device .

User input system allows an author to control the operations of electronic system including such functions as designating narrative or contextual data files C and B to be incorporated into a work allowing an author to arrange organize and edit content or contextual data files C or B to provide information about the author or audience and so on. For these purposes user input system may comprised any of a number of local or remotely connected devices or systems or combinations thereof including touch screens keyboards trackballs mouse s voice or gesture recognitions systems display screens and so on. In the embodiment shown in for example user input system includes an optional remote input including a remote keyboard a remote mouse and a remote control and a local input including a local keyboard and a local mouse

As is illustrated in local user input may also or alternatively and for example take the form of an editing studio or kiosk hereafter also referred to as an editing area . In this embodiment an author may be seated before a console comprising local keyboard and mouse and a local display which is capable for example of displaying multimedia content. Editing area may also have sensors including but not limited to cameras audio sensors and other sensors such as multispectral sensors that can monitor author during an authoring or working session.

In a yet further embodiment such as is illustrated in local user input may also or alternatively take the form of a performance stage . In this illustration an author is seated before a console comprising local keyboard and mouse and a local display which is capable of multimedia display. As is also illustrated in performance stage can also have sensors including but not limited to cameras audio sensors and other sensors such as multispectral sensors that can monitor author during an authoring or working session. As is also illustrated in performance stage may include a sharing system also referred to herein as a presentation system that presents narrative or contextual content B or A to an audience and one or more sensors that are adapted to monitor audience reaction to the presented content. It will be appreciated that the material presented to audience can also be presented to remote viewers by a sharing output as described further below.

Output system allows a user of system that is and typically the author of a work to store present or deliver or share a work and may be comprised of any system or device or combination of systems of device conventionally used for such purposes. Output system may thereby and for example be comprised of display screens and projectors image and audio projection devices and systems printers communications systems networks or devices of all types recording devices memory devices and media recording devices such as CD and DVD presses or recorders.

Finally processor may be comprised for example of a program controlled general purposes processor or group of linked processor operating under control of programs dedicated purpose systems or sub systems or any combination thereof operating under control of user author inputs to select access and retrieve manipulate and assemble narrative and contextual content B and A into a work . Such systems are in general and in themselves well known and understood by those of ordinary skill in the relevant arts and the general structure and operations of such devices and systems need not be described further herein.

Referring to therein is illustrated an exemplary embodiment of the method of the present invention for authoring a work containing both narrative content B and contextual content A wherein the relative significance and effect or impact of the narrative content B and contextual content A structure are selectively dependent on at least the characteristics of the author or the intended audience of the work . It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the relevant arts after perusal of the following description of the method of the present invention that the method of the present invention may be implemented in a system as described above or alternately in any generally equivalent system capable of performing the operations of the present method.

The creation of a work begins with the author s designation of one or more narrative content B items that are to be included in the work or that are representative of the narrative content B to be included in the work and an indication of the form to be taken by the final work . The narrative content B may be designated in a number of ways such as by designating or listing one or more narrative data files C by direct input of the narrative content B such as by download from a designated storage device or system or other source of narrative data B or by identifying or specifying one or more types or classifications of narrative content B

The narrative data files C containing the designated narrative content B are then located and accessed and the identified narrative content B is retrieved from the appropriate narrative data files C. The narrative data files C containing the desired narrative content B may be identified directly such as by user designations of the narrative data files C automatically by downloading from the identified storage device or system or indirectly by searching the accessible narrative data files C for the designed types or classes of narrative content B such as by a search of the narrative content type identifiers D of the narrative data files C.

The narrative content B of the narrative data files C retrieved in step is then filtered according to work criteria that is dependent for example the user s identification of the form of the final work that is and for example whether the work is to be textual still or sequential images music or other audio data or a combination thereof so that only the forms of narrative content B that are compatible with the intended form of the work remain under consideration for inclusion in the work . It should be noted that the volume of narrative content B resulting from steps and may exceed the amount of narrative content B that can be or is desired to be included in the work . In such instances the user may repeat steps and with narrower work criteria C to thereby narrow the range and thus the volume of narrative content B to include only the narrative content B that is most relevant to the purpose of the work . Alternately the user may intervene directly at this point such as by direct individual review of each item of narrative content B resulting from steps and to further narrow the range of narrative content B resulting from steps and .

In steps of the process contextual content A related to the selected narrative content B is identified and retrieved from context data files B. As will be described next below the retrieval of context content A pertinent to the narrative content B of the narrative data files C of a narrative structure A is a multi step process comprising 

The following will next consider the elements and operations of process steps through in greater detail noting that certain portions of the following discussions have been presented herein above and that such repeated material is presented below for convenience in understanding the relationships between the matters discussed below.

As described herein above narrative data files C include context indicators E that indicate the types or classes of contextual content A that may relate to the narrative content B. In a presently preferred embodiment as also described herein above context indicators E are inherent and implicit in narrative data files C being contained within and comprised of the narrative content B of the narrative data files C. In the presently preferred embodiment thereby the context indicators E of a narrative data file C are determined during the present process by analysis of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C according to contextual framework rules E defining each contextual framework D and its contextual contents A.

Context indicators E are identified in the narrative data files C according to one or more contextual frameworks D of rules for identifying occurrences of the various types and classes of narrative content B. In a presently preferred embodiment context indicators E identify and comprise any of a wide variety of types of narrative content B that are identifiable through analysis of the narrative data files C and can provide any of a number of different pieces of information that can provide some useful suggestion or identification as to the contextual content A related to a set of narrative data files C. The following description of exemplary context indicators E and contextual frameworks D is generally directed to the instance of a single contextual framework D of a work for purposes of brevity and clarity. It will be understood however that the following descriptions may be readily expanded to works possessing multiple contextual frameworks D.

As indicated a contextual framework D is comprised of and defined by various rules that are used to identify context indicators E in a narrative data file C and each contextual framework D and the rules of a contextual framework D may be organized or grouped according to categories of related context indicators E and the associated rules for determining such context indicators E.

According to the present invention context indicators E are elements of semantic information determined from an analysis of one or more instances of narrative content B in a narrative data file C wherein the term semantic information is used herein to refer to the meaning of a particular instance of data as interpreted by a human observer. For example semantic information refers to the meaning of a word or phrase in a text document or the interpretation of a particular pattern of light and shadow in an image as a pair of eyes. In a contextual framework D context indicators E are particular items of semantic information that are identified by the associated rules as being relevant to the identified context. An individual contextual framework D is thereby generally inclusive of at least some of the semantic information potentially available in a narrative data file C and generally exclusive of other semantic information potentially available in the narrative data file C with the selection between the included and excluded semantic information being defined by the rules of the contextual framework D.

One example of a contextual framework D is a chronological contextual framework D that is a framework of rules related to chronology that identify a the chronological context of the set of narrative data files. For example one contextual framework D rule can analyze the narrative data files C to determine a range of dates and times over which the set of narrative data files C were captured. Other rules can examine each narrative data file C to try to associate the set of narrative data files C with a time of day or to determine a time of day or year that a particular event occurred or to determine whether a set of narrative data files C represents a single event a sequence of different events or one or more groups of events. Such chronological context indicators E might be found in metadata associated with selected narrative data files such as date and time information or by analyzing the narrative content B of the narrative data files C for chronological indicators such as image text or audio elements that are known to connote chronological relationships or properties

Another example of a contextual framework D is an environmental contextual framework D pertaining to environmental context indicators E within the narrative data files C wherein the contextual framework D rules operate to determine ambient conditions within which a narrative occurs such as rules for determining weather conditions daylight and indoor outdoor status can be applied. Environment indicators E like chronological indicators E can be determined from metadata and analyses of content and by use of additional outside information such as metadata on white balance in an image that can indicate indoor outdoor status exposure level can indicate light or dark outdoor conditions

Still other examples of a contextual framework D include but are not limited to for example a social framework that defines rules for location social context indicators in the narrative data files such as groupings of people depicted therein. For example family groupings school groupings work groupings and the like can be identified using appropriate rules.

Other contextual framework Ds can be provided for example political and technological contextual framework D can include as context indicators political figures or indicia of technological development or athletic educational and geographic contexts.

As discussed previously the contextual rules of a contextual framework D may be for example binary that is yes or no or probabilistic statistical and contextual rules used in a particular contextual framework can be determined heuristically or by use of automated classification techniques well known to those of skill in the art such as use of a genetic algorithm.

An inductive or deductive inference query A essentially comprises a search criteria derived from and identifying a possible relevant contextual relationship between items of contextual content A as identified by the context indicators E identified in step and information referred to herein as associated entity data B pertaining to or characterizing an entity or person such as an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character or representation associated with or appearing in the work . The query results R resulting from an inference query A thereby represent a possible relationship relevancy or correlation between a person or entity that is associated in some way with a work and contextual content A that is or may be associated with the narrative content B of the work . The following description of exemplary inference queries A is generally directed for purposes of brevity and clarity to an instance of a single inference query A pertaining to an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphical character of a work . It will be understood however that the following descriptions may be readily expanded to instances involving multiple inference queries A and multiple persons or entities associated with a work in any of a wide variety of relationships.

Associated entity data B is stored in one or more knowledge databases C wherein each knowledge base C is comprised of information pertaining to and relevant to the associated person or entity. Associated entity data B may include for example but is not limited to biographical information including family educational professional social medical or psychological histories personal characteristics preferences and habits and so on and may include any form of information descriptive of the associated entity. Context indicators E in turn and as described above identify the various types and classes of context content A that may be associated with the narrative content B in each narrative data file C of the work .

Inference queries A are generated by comparisons of the context indicators E determined in step of the process with the associated entity data B of one or more of the persons or entities associated with the work to identify matches correlations or other relevancies between the context indicators E and items of the associated entity data B. Each resulting inference query A represents a possible match correlation or relevancy between a context indicator E obtained from the narrative content B of the work and a person or entity associated with the work and includes identifications of the corresponding context indicators E and the relevant items of associated entity data B. For example a given body of associated entity data B pertaining to a person or entity associated in some way with the work can be comprised of an educational history for a person and the educational history can identify schools attended by the relevant person and the years of attendance. If a context indicator E derived from the narrative content B of the narrative data files C of the work suggests that the corresponding set of narrative data files C were captured during a particular year and the knowledge base C indicates that the associated person was attending a particular school during that year then inference queries A can be generated for narrative data files C that are related to the school and or people who attended the school during the relevant year.

In step the inference queries A determined in step are then used to search for locate and retrieve context data files B containing contextual content A corresponding to the context indicators E and the relevant items of associated entity data B identified in the inference queries A.

In step as described briefly above the process of the present invention assigns priorities to the contextual content A of the retrieved context data files B according to the significance of the contextual contents A to the persons or entities identified in the inference queries A and to the narrative and narrative structure A of the work

The significance of each retrieved item of context content A is dependent upon and determined by the nature of the context data files B and contextual content A found during the inference query A search or searches and the relationship between the context data files B and contextual content A and the associated person or entity. For example a higher priority is assigned to context data files B and contextual content A depicting content having a greater level of immediacy for or closer relationship to the associated person or entity. Thus and for example in the instance of the above described search for school related context data files B the context data files B having contextual content A that depicts the present appearance of the school might be given lower priority than context data files B that present contextual content A represent the school from the years in which the associated person attended that school. Similarly context data files B and contextual data A actually depicting the relevant person at the school during that time frame would be determined to have a still higher significance and thus given a higher priority.

In summary therefore the levels of relative significance of items of narrative content B or contextual content A will depend upon and vary with the group and the matters or events and there is useful information inherent in terms of the goals and objects of a given work in the distinctions between types and levels of general significance. For example significance may be generally defined as the function of the size of an effected group and the intensity and duration of the effect of the event or matter as perceived by the group. It is therefore apparent that in at least certain instances it is advantageous to the intended narrative goals and object of a work to distinguish between for example narrative content B that effects large groups intensely for short periods of time and narrative content B that effects large groups at low levels of intensity over a long period and various levels of intermediate significance. It is further understood that shared contextual content A such as membership in a group having a common age range and common experiences will aid in identifying narrative or contextual content B or A that are likely to be of particular significance to the author performers the audience and the characters in the work .

It must be noted that there are a number of means of measuring significance between events or elements many of which are well known in the arts and that any system of significance measure that will provide the described results may be so employed depending upon the needs requirements and objects of the particular embodiment of the present invention.

It must also be noted that the range of criteria for judging and measuring relevance and significance and this priorities is essentially unlimited and includes any criteria for evaluating or representing relationships between for example events persons or other factors and may include for example social economic historical and political factors and so on.

The context data files C and contextual content B identified and retrieved and ordered by assigned priority in step may then be incorporated into the work in association with the respectively associated narrative content B of narrative content files C.

While all of the context data files C and contextual content B identified in step may be included into the work the resulting number of context data files C or amount of contextual content B may be excessive for the intended nature or scope of the work or may result in the effect of the more significant contextual content B being diluted by less significant contextual content B. It is therefore often and typically necessary to reduce or limit the number of context data files C or amount of contextual content B in order to obtain the desired effect or to stay within the intended bounds of the work . The number of context data files C or amount of contextual content B incorporated into a work may be reduced or limited by a number of different methods and according to a number of different criteria. For example contextual files or content may be selected or limited according to a predetermined metric such as work criteria C the priorities assigned in step the number of context data files B or volume of contextual content A contained in the context data files B or aspects such as the contextual framework D the associated person the subject or type of work and so on either singly or in any combination thereof. The selection of contextual content B may be mad for example heuristically automatically according to predetermined or selected criteria or combinations of criteria or by individual consideration of the context data files C or contextual content B by an author of the work .

It must also be noted that in addition to incorporating contextual content A and narrative content B from previously acquired context data files B and narrative data files C the system and method of the present invention may also incorporate contextual content A or narrative content B acquired in real time such as when the work is being created or performed or otherwise presented to an audience. In such instances and as illustrated in a system in which the method of the present invention is implemented may include for example an editing area to have the form of a personal monitoring image and sound capture device that runs continuously and in conjunction with sensors and monitors is able to select events and objects of significance as they present themselves to an individual and capture or otherwise record those objects and events.

In a further example as illustrated in an author is stationed on performance area illustrated in and recounting incidents in her life. As author speaks audio capture system senses the voice signals converts the voice signals into a narrative data file C. The system then determines a narrative content B associated with the narrative data file C analyzes the narrative data file C in accordance with the rules of one or more contextual frameworks D to determine context indicators E. The context indicators E are then applied to a knowledge base C for the author to obtain inference queries A and the inference queries A are used to obtain context data files B that are significant to the associated person in this case the author . Because of the manner in which the context data files B are acquired the context data files B are also significant to the narrative content B of the storytelling performance. In this example the context data files B are media objects that are automatically available for inclusion in the work . For example where author is presenting her story on a performance stage as illustrated in this can be done by providing author with a presentation of representations of narrative data files C and context data files B on a local display . Author may the choose to share one of the context data files B with audience or can respond to the presentation of context data files B by adding to or changing the direction of the story. As author speaks of her experiences maps photos documents sounds and other context data files B can be presented to author without the formulation of an inference query A by author . Author can use the presented context data files B and narrative data files C as stimulants to memory and cues to further narration can share the presented narrative and context data files C and B with the audience or can ignore the presented narrative or context data files C or B or do all of these at different times in a single performance. Each time the storyteller recounts the same or a similar story narrative comprised of narrative data files C and context data files B can be tailored to capture the choices made by author other performers and or audience with the intent that such a history can be used to better anticipate and fulfill the needs of the author or other performers in telling the story.

In a presently preferred embodiment of a system in which the present method for creating a work may be implemented the above described functions and mechanisms are implemented by means of a plurality of database structures.

For example as illustrated in and as described in detail in the following knowledge databases contain information pertaining to persons or entities associated the work such as and for example an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character appearing in the work . Other database structures implementing the present invention may include for example narrative data file databases as illustrated in for storing information characterizing the content of narrative data files C. in turn illustrates an embodiment of designated narrative data file databases for storing information characterizing narrative data files C that are designated to be incorporated in a work . As will be described in further detail below designated narrative data file databases and designated narrative data files C are effectively data file databases relating to narrative data files C specifically designated for inclusion in a work and thereby comprise a special class or group of narrative data file database .

Lastly illustrates an embodiment of link databases for storing links B associating for example narrative nodes A narrative data files C context data files B the narrative structure A into a work .

Therefore considering each of these database structures individually and in greater detail as described above a knowledge database provides a mechanism storing associated entity data B pertaining to and relevant to an associated person entity or group of persons or entities associated with a work . As illustrated in a knowledge database includes one or more knowledge entries E each of which comprises a series of data fields of biographical social behavioral or psychological information pertaining to a person or group. Each data field can store information directly and or can be a logical link to another repository of stored data and links may include null links.

Biographical social behavioral or psychological information to be stored in data fields of a knowledge database structure may be generated and stored in data files either directly or indirectly. For example direct methods for generating and storing biographical social behavioral or psychological information may include asking questions of the individual or group or asking the individual or group to fill out a questionnaire. Indirect methods include searching an individual s or group s public records monitoring the behavior of the individual or group and noting voluntary and or involuntary responses to specific types of stimuli and additionally by deductively and inductively inferring information about the individual or group from information otherwise gathered.

A narrative data file database comprises a mechanism for storing information characterizing the content of the narrative data files C associated with each narrative node A in the narrative structure A of a work . Narrative data file databases thereby allow narrative data files C to be identified evaluated classified and sorted or organized according to their general significance to a given narrative node A and type of work and for appropriateness to the narrative node A and type of work . For example given the availability of information pertaining to the author or one or more members of an expected audience the narrative data files C may be classified sorted ordered and related to the narrative nodes A according to the significance of the narrative content B of the narrative data files C. In addition and significantly with respect to the fundamental method of the present invention changes in the author or authors the performers the characters in the work or the intended audience or responses of the audience are easily reflected in the corresponding narrative data file databases and thus in the narrative of the work . Such changes may be incorporated in real time and may be effectuated by for example direct feedback of the responses of a live audience while the work is being presented to an audience thereby effectively allowing modification of a work by interactive cooperation between the author s performer s and members of an audience. Narrative data file databases also permit such changes to be incorporated directly into a work and carried forward from version to version of the work thereby allowing a work to be adapted for example to changing circumstances or audiences or to be updated to remain topical.

As illustrated in each narrative data file database is comprised of one or more narrative data file entries E each of which corresponds to and is associated with a corresponding narrative data file C and comprises one or more narrative data file entries E each of which contains a plurality of criteria fields wherein each criteria field corresponds to a given criteria characterizing some aspect of the associated narrative data file C. As indicated the data fields associated with and comprising each criteria entry in a narrative data file entry E include an associated criteria value field containing the characterizing information for that criteria .

Considering the criteria typically appearing in a narrative data file entry E each narrative data file database will include at least a unique identifier assigned to and uniquely identifying the corresponding narrative data file C. Further criteria that may be included in a narrative data file database may include for example one or more group identifiers or sub group identifiers identifying corresponding groups or sub groups of narrative data files C to which the given narrative data file C belongs such as the group birthdays and the sub group February birthdays . Such groups and sub groups and the corresponding identifiers may be defined or imposed for example top down or bottom up and may be used for example in defining a context or contextual framework D of a work and it should also be noted that the number of groups or sub groups to which a given narrative data file C can be assigned is effectively unlimited.

Other criteria may include event type identifications pertaining to the type or class of narrative content B or contextual content A appearing in the narrative data file A or associated context data file B for example whether the node content pertains to school political cultural sporting or religious events or matters type of content or to a person group object condition or environment.

The criteria appearing in a narrative data file entry E will also typically include information pertaining to the degree of significance of the narrative content B of a narrative node A and the relationship between the narrative content B and other narrative or contest content B or A or persons entities or groups related to the work . As discussed previously the significance of a given item or body of narrative or contextual content B or A may be expressed as and is generally a function of and dependent upon the impact of the narrative content B of the narrative node A the number of persons effected by the narrative content B the severity of the effect or impact of the narrative content B the duration of the effect and the type and extent of changes resulting from the impact. Other factors determining the significance of narrative or contextual content may include the space in which the impact takes place the location at which the impact occurs and the number of other items of narrative or contextual contents related to or effected by the content in question.

Other criteria that may be represented in a narrative data file entry E may include for example and as illustrated in identifications of the type of media in which the corresponding narrative content B resides such as audio image or text the physical aspects of the narrative content B such as resolution size and so forth the species of narrative content B contained therein such as relational epochal or iconic content the date and location of acquisition of the narrative content B or ownership of the narrative content B

It will be apparent that various taxonomies and classifications can be applied as appropriate to select and generate criteria appropriate to a contemplated work . It will also be apparent from the above discussions that the taxonomy used creates and defines a contextual framework D for the work and context indicators E by the application of formulas applying the corresponding resulting contextual rules to the criteria . Again criteria may be defined or imposed for example top down or bottom up and may be applied to both structured and unstructured narrative and contextual content B and A.

Instances of designated narrative data file databases and designated narrative data file entries E may include for example personal databases and local databases wherein a personal designated narrative data file entry E of the type illustrated in may be assembled by sorting narrative data files C on the basis of relative significance to the author performers and characters in the work and the audience. A designated narrative data file entry E may contain for example material either generated by the author or selected by the author as belonging to a set of personal narrative data files C or personal context data files B containing narrative content B or contextual content A having a close personal proximity or significance to or relationship with an author performer character of the work or member of the audience. For example images of the author s town would be of significance to the author possibly to at least certain characters of the work and those performers and individuals in the audience who come from the same area as the author especially if they were there in the same time period. The narrative data files C associated with a personal designated narrative data file entry E could thus include for example personal photographs movies clippings from local newspapers of family exploits works of personal art documents and other recordings of personal or family achievement and all other content that meets the author s criteria

 Local designated narrative data file databases and entries E in turn contain narrative data files C having narrative content B whose significance is based on a more distant or a non personal relationship to an author performer character or audience member is of lesser significance to such persons or is based upon a relationship with other than an author performer character or audience member or is based upon a more narrowly defined scope or type of relationship. Such narrative data files C may for example contain narrative content B that has only a mid or low level of significance to an author performer characters or audience member but that is of greater significance to such persons than to the general population. In further example of the narrative content B of a local narrative data file entry E people of the same age even if not physically collocated commonly share at least a degree of general perception of experience and may thereby be said to have as a group a useful level of local relative significance to each other based upon that degree or range of experiences that are shared in fact or in perception.

Lastly it should be noted that the functionality of designated narrative data file databases can be achieved within other database structures through the use of fields views metatags and other tools well known to those versed in the art of databases.

As discussed herein above the organization or structure of a work of authorship is typically based on an underlying narrative that defines a spatiotemporal collection of relationships between concepts having or represented by associated narrative content B contained in narrative data files C. As also discussed previously herein above the contents of a work are conveyed to an audience according to the sequence or narrative path P by which the nodes A of the narrative structure A are traversed and the narrative structure A structure arranges the narrative contents B and associated contextual contents A of the nodes A into a coherent presentation of the contents of the work .

Referring therefore to therein is illustrated an exemplary embodiment of a narrative structure database that defines a narrative structure A for a work . As shown a narrative structure database includes one or more narrative structure entries E each of which includes one or more criteria each of which in turn includes descriptor fields such as descriptor fields and illustrated in that contain information defining the narrative structure A of the work the relationships between the narrative nodes A included in the narrative structure A and identifications of the narrative data files C associated with the narrative nodes A of the narrative structure A including the status of the narrative data files C.

For example and considering the narrative structure information typically and generally included in the data fields and of a narrative structure entry E in further detail one descriptor field may contain a unique identifier for the work . Other descriptor fields will typically correspond to each narrative node A of the narrative structure A and may contain for example a unique identifier for the associated narrative node A.

Others of criteria and the associated descriptor fields and may contain information identifying the location of the corresponding narrative node A in the narrative structure A itself. Yet others of criteria and the associated descriptor fields and may contain information identifying the spatiotemporal location of the narrative node A in narrative presented by the work or in the real world such as Chicago Spring 1993 Fall 1994 or New York 1 am Wed Nov. 11 or a generic equivalent such as small town summers day. 

Still further criteria and associated descriptor fields and may contain information identifying for example a role played by the narrative node A within the narrative structure A. Such identified roles may include for example narrative nodes A that set a context or provide a surprise drama or resolution effect and so on thereby allowing the associated narrative data files C to be identified and sorted on an aesthetic basis to more readily determine the flow and pattern of the narrative of a work . Context setting narrative data files can be described by the formula as having wide general exposure coupled with a low level of significance but of lengthy temporal duration. A dramatic narrative data file can rely on high levels of significance and short temporal duration and close proximity that is a close relationship to the associated person s .

A narrative structure entry E can also have criteria and associate fields and like those in the narrative data file database that describe a node in terms of preferred characteristics of resolution appearance and media type that will allow system to rapidly generate a work of communication in response to changing goals of the author performers and responses of the audience.

Additionally a narrative structure database can have criteria and associated fields containing overall rules governing the presentation editing and assemblage of the narrative data files that will constitute the work of communication.

Each narrative node A of a narrative structure A has links B other element of the narrative structure A including but not limited to one or more nodes A narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B. Each such link B may exist in one or more of a plurality of functional states such as the required optional active or inactive states wherein the state of a link B may be modified for example during presentation of the work either automatically or under control of the author or a performer to adapt the material presented to the audience according to the reactions of the audience.

In addition to the links B to or from the narrative nodes A there will typically be additional links B between for example narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B at one or more levels of interconnection between the narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B. For example the author performer may choose an optional link B to a contextual data file C to display a scene typical of the Chicago lakefront in 1955. The selection of the contextual data file C may produce in turn an additional set of links B that are required optional or inactive. The system and method of the present invention thereby includes the capability to look ahead of the currently selected narrative node A by following chains or sequences of links B to identify locate and sort narrative data files C or context data files B of potential significance to the author performers characters or audience members in at least one subsequent narrative node A.

In a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention information identifying the links B between nodes A narrative data files C and or context data files B or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B at various levels in the narrative structure A resides in one of more link databases an exemplary embodiment of which is illustrated in . As represented therein and as in the case of the database structures described above each link databases includes one or more link entries E each of which pertains to a corresponding link B and includes one or more criteria each of which in turn includes descriptor fields such as descriptor fields and that containing information identifying pertaining to and defining a corresponding link B of the narrative structure A the nodes A narrative data files C and or context data files B and or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B related by the corresponding links and the levels at which the corresponding links reside in the narrative structure A.

For example one criterion and the associated descriptor fields may contain a unique identifier for the work . Other descriptor fields will typically correspond to each narrative node A of the narrative structure A and may contain for example a unique identifier for the associated narrative node A.

Certain one of criteria and the associated descriptor fields and may contain a unique identifier of the corresponding link B an identification of the nodes A narrative data files C and or context data files B and or repositories of narrative data files C and or context data files B related by the corresponding links B the types of elements related through the link B and the level at which the corresponding link B resides in the narrative structure A. Other criteria and associated descriptor fields may contain an identification of the a storage location of the link and identifications of at least one group and or sub group of links to which the link may belong information identifying the location of the corresponding narrative node A in the narrative structure A itself.

Still further criteria and associated descriptor fields and may contain information identifying for example the type of elements related through the link B the relationship between the elements related through the link B and the significance of the relationship represented by the link B. Still other criteria and associated descriptor fields may contain for example information pertaining to the characteristics of the elements related by the corresponding link such as preferred characteristics of resolution appearance media type date of acquisition and ownership of the linked elements.

It will be apparent from the above descriptions of the elements of the present invention that the relationships between persons or entities associated with a work such as an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character in the work and the narrative content of the work is of very great significance with regard to identifying and selecting contextual content to be incorporated into the work . The relationships between narrative content B and a person associated with the work containing that narrative content B and the construction of such a relationship is illustrated in .

As represented in the generation of a relationship between a narrative data file C and a person associated with a work is initiated with a starting personal knowledge database a starting narrative structure database and a starting designated narrative data file database .

As has been discussed herein above the personal information contained in or referred to by the starting personal knowledge database is directed to information about the person that would allow the discovery identification deduction or inference of the general and specific types of narrative content B or contextual content A that would be of significance to that person. For example the starting personal knowledge database may contain or refer to the personal history interests experiences and characteristics of the person and may include for example psychological profiles hobbies past purchasing behavior vocations avocations social financial cultural and familial relationships and so on. The narrative content B contained in or referred to by the starting designated narrative data file database in turn pertains to the essentially and fundamental explicit implicit and deducible aspects and elements of the narrative embodied in the work . That is the narrative content B pertains to the basic components of plotting sequencing description characterization environment and action which are often expressed as the classic elements of who what where when and how.

The interaction of the starting personal knowledge database starting narrative structure database and starting designated narrative data file database to identify potential and actual relationships between information pertaining to persons associated with a work and the narrative content of the work is illustrated in . As indicated therein and according to the method and system of the present invention one or more combined queries are generated by a combination of information from the starting personal knowledge database starting narrative structure database and starting designated narrative data file database to identify possible combinations and correlations among the information in the databases.

As illustrated in for the instance of a single combined query all sources of narrative content B or contextual content A accessible to the system including narrative data file databases designated narrative data file databases and narrative structure databases are queried or search using each of the resulting combined queries . All results of the searches that is the identifications of the materials identified by the searches are returned for consideration of the material for possible inclusion in the work as comprising material that is pertinent and appropriate to the work .

As shown in copies of the materials identified by the combined queries are accessed and retrieved as necessary and links B for each item of narrative or contextual content C or A in the copies of materials are placed in one or more of a holding database a narrative data file database or a linkage database . The identified materials are subsequently considered for inclusion in the work by for example an author performer or agent or by the system itself according to predetermined criteria.

As indicated in the materials accepted for inclusion in the work as comprising appropriate and relevant narrative content B or contextual content A are entered into one or more of a personal knowledge database a narrative structure database and a narrative data file database and now further define and refine the personal interests and narrative and contextual content B and A identified therein.

As discussed previously the significance of a particular item or body of content is a function of perspective wherein perspective may be defined as the significance of an item or body of content to a particular person or group or class of persons under specific circumstances of the narrative embodied in the work . Perspective may for example be a function of the spatiotemporal proximity or displacement or the person or group with respect to the content that is whether an event is remote or local in time or space personal proximity or displacement that is the degree of their personal involvement with the content or the degree of personal impact of the content or narrative perspective that is the point in a narrative from which the content is perceived.

In this regard and as discussed previously the significance of narrative and context data files C and B may be measured in absolute terms that is in terms of the overall general significance of the element to the work in general. Absolute significance however as used in the prior art is a very limiting concept and method for measuring significance because the significance of narrative and context data files C and B does not vary according to their relationship to other narrative and context data files C and B of the work or the point in the narrative path P through the work at which the narrative and context data files C and B are introduced. As such the absolute significant of for example a narrative or context data files C or B is not only fixed for a given work but has a very limited range of values that typically demonstrates a very limited set of values or degrees of significance such as for example low moderate or high and is thus of very limited functionality in assisting in the creation of a work .

According to the present invention however the significance of a given element of a work that is of a narrative or context data file C or B is more usefully measured and defined in terms of the relative significance that is the perspective of the element with respect to other elements of the work such as a narrative node A a narrative data file C a context data file B or a person or persons associated with the work such as an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character of the work or a point along the narrative path P through the work . As a consequence and as illustrated in the relative significance or perspective of narrative and context data files C and B typically comprise a relative wide continuous spectrum or range of values or degrees having a significantly higher granularity or number of increments compared to absolute significance. As such the relative significance and perspective of a narrative node A a narrative data file C a context data file B a person or persons associated with the work or a point along the narrative path P through the work is a significantly more powerful and flexible tool or mechanism for constructing a work than is absolute significance.

In the present invention the concept and mechanism of relative significance and perspective is embodied in the concepts and mechanism of virtual perspective. is a diagrammatic illustration of virtual perspective which is an expression and embodiment of the relationship between narrative data files C and a narrative node A in the context of a narrative line wherein a narrative line is a narrative path P by which the nodes A of the narrative structure A are traversed to present the narrative and contextual content B and A or the work . thereby illustrates perspective and the relative significance of narrative and contextual content B and A according to the methods of the present invention by which narrative and context data files C and B can be organized to represent the manner in which individuals or groups actually perceive a work .

According to the present invention and to more readily identify the significance relationships among narrative and context data files C and B common relational groupings of narrative and or context data files C and B are identified and the narrative and or context data files C and B are organized into relational groups referred to in and hereafter as objects . As illustrated in such relational groups of narrative and or context data files C and B may be organized for example as personal objects local objects or general objects based upon their relative spatiotemporal personal or narrative perspective with respect to the persons or groups perceiving the narrative or contextual content B and A. The classification of a narrative and or context data files C and B as within a personal object local object or general object is a general representation of the general significance of the narrative or contextual content to the narrative node A. It must be recognized however that this relationship is general and may not reflect certain actual situations. For example the groupings of objects and may overlap or in certain instances an item of narrative or contextual content B or A that is classified into a general object may have a higher level of significance to a narrative node A than does for example an item of narrative or contextual content B or A that is classified into a personal object .

It must be noted that similar significance relationships and personal local or general groupings of relationships may be determined between persons associated with a work such as an author performer or audience member and the narrative or contextual content B or A of narrative or context data files C or B data files as discussed next below.

Referring next to therein is illustrated a further aspect of the relationships between elements of a work as directional relationships and a method for representing and displaying such directional relationships. The example shown in pertains to a relationship a narrative node A and a narrative data file C of a narrative structure A in a three dimensional virtual perspective space . It will be readily understood by those familiar with the relevant arts however that the method for displaying relationships between elements of a work apply equally to relationships including significance relationships between a narrative structure A narrative nodes A narrative and context data files C and B and their narrative and contextual contents B and A and individuals or groups of individuals associated with the work such as one or more authors performers audience members or real fictional or anthropomorphic characters of the work .

The method of representing relationships between elements of a work illustrate the fact that according to the present invention the characteristics of relationships between for example narrative nodes A narrative and context data files C and B and their narrative and contextual contents B and A and individuals or groups of individuals associated with the work are not limited to for example type and their vector parameters. According to the present invention the characteristics of the possible relationships between the elements of a work may also include direction wherein for purposes of the present invention relationships direction represents influence or dependency between two elements of a work . For example a narrative data file C may be significant to a narrative node A such as by providing narrative content B that defines and comprises at least a part of the narrative node A. In this case the direction of the relationship between the narrative node A and narrative data file C would be from the narrative data file C to the narrative node A. That is in this example the narrative data file C influences the narrative node A but the narrative node A may not influence the narrative data file C that is the narrative node A does not define any part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C which has an existence independent of the narrative node A. In the reverse instance however the narrative node A may for example define at least a part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C and the direction of the relationship would be from the narrative node A to the narrative data file C. In a further example the influence between the narrative node A and the narrative data file C may be bidirectional. That is the narrative content B of the narrative data file C may define some aspect of the narrative node A and the narrative node A may define a part of the narrative content B of the narrative data file C.

In a preferred embodiment of the systems and methods of the present invention therefore the relationship between elements of a work will includes direction as well as for example type and vectors parameters such as the strength of the relationship. Accordingly and as illustrated in the direction of a relationship may in the present invention be graphically as well as conceptually represented by arrowed lines including both mono and bi directional lines as indicated by the locations and or orientations of the arrows.

The directional properties of relationships and links between the elements of a work and the methods by which such directional relationships may be graphically represented to a user are further illustrated in . For example illustrates the relationship between the narrative data files and nodes in the narrative where the arrow extending from the narrative node A to the narrative data file C indicates that a narrative node A is in a defining role with regard to the narrative data file C. In this instance for example the narrative node A may provide a larger defining context for the narrative content B of the narrative data file C while the narrative content B of the narrative data file C refine the context specified by the narrative node A. in turn illustrates the reverse situation. In this instance for example the more significant content such as an image of a person essential to the narrative resides in the narrative data file C and the narrative node A provides a broader but less definitive context for the narrative content B in the narrative data file C such as a map or picture of the general setting in which the image in the narrative data file C was taken. Again it is necessary to note that two elements of a work such as a narrative node A and a narrative data file C may not be in a superior inferior influence relationship with each other but may instead be equally significant with respect to each other in which instance the representative link would be defined as bi directional.

The above has described significance relationships among for example narrative nodes A narrative data files C context data files B persons associated with the work and a narrative path P through the work .

The following will next describe the use of a static or dynamic relationships between narrative data files C context data files B and one or more persons associated with the work to identify significance relationships among persons associated with a work and the narrative nodes A of the work a method for the generation of inference queries to identify further potential content of a work and the provision of alternate narrative paths P through a narrative structure A.

An associated person is identified and a knowledge database is acquired or generated for the identified associated person wherein an associated person may be for example one or more authors performers or audience members or real fictional or anthropomorphic characters of the work .

Data from the knowledge database is converted to perspective coordinates C in a multidimensional perspective coordinate space including for example but not limited to spatiotemporal personal and narrative relationship parameters. The perspective coordinates C of that person define and comprise a perspective reference point P defining the location of that person in the perspective coordinate space.

Similar perspective coordinates are then determined for one or more narrative or context data files C or B and the perspective space distance between a narrative or context data file C or B and the perspective reference point P is determined for each narrative or context data files C or B. The narrative or context data files C or B are then classified and grouped as personal local or general objects thereby determining the significance of each narrative or context data files C or B with respect to the associated person.

One or more inference queries A relating at least one context indicator E of a narrative data bile C with an associated person are then generated using inductive and deductive logic and within the perspective coordinates C of virtual perspective as described generally herein above.

In a presently preferred embodiment of the method of the present invention the inference query process is executed in two parts wherein the first part performed in step is the generation of one or more inference queries A that search for general narrative and contextual content items having the broadest and highest relative significance to the associated person or groups of associated persons.

The second step of the inference query process is the generation of one or more combined inference queries AC wherein each second stage inference query AC is the combination of an inference query A from step with a supplemental inference query AS. Each supplemental inference query AS is again generated using inductive and deductive logic within the perspective coordinates C of virtual perspective as described above but pertains to the relative significance of the narrative or context data files C or B with respect to narrative nodes A In particular inference queries A are combined reiteratively and recursively with supplemental inference queries AS to create combined inference queries AC.

The combined inference query or queries AC are then executed to locate narrative or context data files C or B meeting the criteria stated in each combined inference query AC.

The query results R returned from each combined inference query AC executed in step are tested against one or more work criteria C such as a boundary for the minimum level of relative significance types media containing contextual content A and other constraints.

It must be noted that the query results R returned from the combined inference queries AC of step represent overlaps correlations or concurrences between one or more persons associated a work such as an author performer audience member or real fictional or anthropomorphic character of the work and a narrative node A of the work according to the query criteria defined in the combined inference queries AC. The inference query results R resulting from the combined inference queries AC accordingly identify narrative or context data files C or B containing narrative or contextual content B or A that is of significance to both the person or persons associated with the work and the narrative node A of the work . For example a combined inference query AC may combine an inference query A directed to the books read by a given individual with a supplemental inference query AS specifying a time period closely surrounding a time represented in the narrative node A. The resulting query results R identifying the books read by the person during that interval may then be used in subsequent reiterations of the queries to suggest and identify locations and characters in the books that may be associated with the events in the narrative.

If none of the returned query results R meet the test criteria the process returns to step to generate and execute further combined inference queries AC.

When a returned query result R meets the test criteria a corresponding link B is entered into a link database wherein the link B may comprise for example an identification or location of the corresponding accepted narrative data file C or contextual data file B.

The process is reiterated for combined inference queries AC that are progressively formulated to specify narrative or context data files C or B having less significance with respect to the associated person or persons and narrative or context data files C or B having fewer degrees of separation from the associated person or persons such as narrative or context data files C or B classified as local or personal objects or instead of general objects .

The process monitors the returning query results R to determine whether the reiterative generation of combined inference queries AC should continue for the associated individual or individuals for further degrees significance with respect to the associated individual or individuals and narrative or context data files C or B or fewer degrees of separation from the associated individual or individuals.

If the reiterative inference query process is completed with respect to the individual or individuals that is it is determined in step that further reiterations are not required the process determines whether the above described process should be continued for further associated individuals or groups of individuals.

The process determines whether the process is completed for all potential associated individuals or groups of individuals or should be continued for further individuals or groups of individuals. Step identifies when the process is complete for an individual or group and the nodes of the narrative line requiring storage of the narrative or context data files C or B and links to the narrative or context data files C or B in a manner useful to the work structure databases.

The process then ranks the identified narrative or context data files C or B for relative significance with respect to the associated person or persons and the narrative node A under consideration as described previously herein and selects the narrative or contest data files C or B to be associated with the narrative node A accordingly.

It must be noted with regard to the above described process for linking narrative and context data files C and B persons associated with the work and narrative nodes A of the work that certain data fields of the above described knowledge entries E narrative data entries E and work structure entries E contain information pertaining to the general significance of the corresponding elements of the work . This information in turn allows at least a first level of association to be generated for those personal narrative or work structure elements of sufficiently high significance and sufficiently universal or general relationship with one or more of at least one author performer audience member of real fictional or anthropomorphic character of the work .

In this regard it must also be reiterated that as discussed above the significance of narrative or contextual content B or A is a function of several factors such as the proximity of the narrative of contextual content to the person or persons in question the number of persons effected the degree or severity of the effect of the content on those persons the duration of the impact and the degree and significance of the resulting effects on the work .

It must also be noted the reiterative capability of the above described process allows the number and breath and depth of potentially significant personal narrative and contextual content and narrative node relationships and links to be greatly expanded from what may often be a very small starting base of potential relationships. That is and in particular each reiteration of inference queries A may provide further narrative or contextual content B or A that not only adds to the number of possible significance relationships but may in turn suggest further possible areas or subjects for subsequent inference queries A.

Having used static and dynamic relationships between narrative data files C context data files B and one or more persons associated with the work to identify significance relationships among persons associated with a work the narrative nodes A of the work the following will next describe a method for generating inference queries as discussed previously to identify further potential narrative or contextual content or persons that may be associated with a work .

In a first step of the method a narrative line sequential arrangement of narrative nodes C comprising a backbone for a potential work and supporting narrative data files are identified step and a work data base is obtained for the narrative line .

Data from the work structure database is converted to guidelines time location useful for providing an absolute point of reference from which to measure the degrees of separation of the designated narrative data files step . Step then builds upon step and the formula for degrees of separation and the absolute significance of designated narrative data files as criteria for classification of narrative data files such as personal local and general classifications step by calculating the relative significance to the node.

An inference query step is then created using inductive and deductive logic and the principle of virtual perspective as described generally above. Initially the step begins with searches for general items of broadest and highest relative significance.

In step the similar queries produced by similar calculations for calculating the relative significance of the supporting context data files B to the individuals associated with the story are combined reiteratively and recursively to create inferential queries.

The additional inference queries generated in are then used to return results step that are of contextual significance to both the author and node of the story.

Results from step are then tested against the work creation criteria such as setting a boundary for the minimum level of relative significance types of narrative data files to be searched and other constraints step . If the test is failed then the system can go back to step and reformulate the query to produce more satisfactory results. If the test is passed then the results that is the returned location of an acceptable context data file B are entered into the link database step for the potential work. Steps are then repeated as necessary step .

The process is reiterated step for inference queries that are formulated for nodes useful for providing alternative narrative lines as narrative paths P that may be available in interactive and customized versions of this disclosure and repeated.

When all required reiterations are complete step the overall results are filtered a final time on the basis of rules governing the ranking of the results returned from the multiple iterations of the inferential queries step . For example the rules may favor retention of the context data files of highest relative value across all the nodes or for a limited selection of nodes in a particular range. If more nodes are present step the process can then return to step .

Next considering the provision of alternate narrative path P through a narrative structure A illustrates that the author of the work of communication may for example choose to offer the option of making choices when interacting with the work of communication. In addition to a first narrative line having nodes N an additional narrative line is provided having additional nodes Nthat allow a choice of an alternative narrative line at the time of the presentation or performance. For example a node in a narrative may allow a choice to proceed with one or more alternative narrative lines and the narrative line may be redirected to any alternative node as allowed by the work of communication. The alternative choices may for example be unconditional that is entirely at the discretion of the user or audience member or conditional that is certain choices may be available only upon the presence of certain conditions.

It has been described extensively herein above that the method and system of the present invention incorporate the principles of significance relationships and perspective in particular virtual perspective in the organization and structure of the elements of a work including the narrative structure A the narrative nodes A the narrative data files C the context data files B and their narrative and contextual contents B and A and the persons associated with the work . It will be understood and appreciated that the use of the system and method of the present invention to create a work in the general manner described briefly herein above further requires the display of those relationships and perspectives in a manner useful to the user or author of the work . The following will next describe certain methods for representing and displaying those relationships and perspectives to a user or author and will further illustrate and describe the principles of significance relationships and virtual perspective as implemented in the system and method of the present invention.

First referring to therein is illustrated a representation of the relationships between narrative nodes A and narrative data files C in a virtual perspective space implemented in a presently preferred embodiment as a multi dimensional polar coordinate space wherein the coordinate origin of perspective space is comprised of an origin point narrative node AO under consideration. As will become apparent from the following discussions the virtual perspective space shown in not only illustrates the method of structuring significance relationships in polar space according to a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention but also comprises an advantageous display of such relationships and is so employed in systems embodying the present invention as will be described further in following descriptions. It will also be recognized from the following discussions that a virtual perspective space which is implemented as a two dimensional coordinate space in the exemplary space illustrated in may be implemented for effectively any number of dimensions depending upon the number and relationship of significance factors employed in a given implementation of the present method and system. In a like manner a virtual perspective space may be implemented in yet other coordinate systems such as a rectangular or spherical coordinate system.

According to the present invention the degree or measure of relative significance between the origin narrative node AO and for example a person a context data file or contextual content A or another narrative node A is represented by the radial distance between the origin point narrative node A and the a person context data file or contextual content A in question. As shown the coordinate origin point formed by origin narrative node AO is surrounded by radially spaced rings which represent increments of relative significance with respect to the origin narrative node AO with increasing radial distance from the origin narrative node AO representing proportionally decreasing significance with respect to the narrative node A. As has been discussed herein above with regard to a present embodiment of the invention groups of narrative and or context data files C and B may be classified for example as personal objects local objects or general objects with personal objects being of the group of highest significance and general objects being of the group of lowest significance. The illustration of virtual perspective space in is accordingly provided with three rings defining three radial regions in which personal objects local objects or general objects respectively reside.

The degree or measure of relative significance between origin narrative node AO and narrative data files C and context data files B and their contents may accordingly be represented in virtual perspective space by the radial locations of the narrative and context data files C and B that is in the personal object local object or general object regions delineated by rings . Relationships between or groupings of narrative and context data files C and B such as similarities of content or other characteristics and either inherent in the data files or imposed by other criteria or selection processes may be represented in virtual perspective space by circumferential placement or groupings of the narrative and context data files C and B. Lastly the type of object represented that is and for example a person a narrative data file C or a context data file B may be represented in virtual perspective space for purposes of visual display by for example shape or color coding of the icons or symbols representing the objects.

Relative significance relationships between the origin narrative node AO and individuals or group of individuals or narrative nodes A or narrative data files C and significance and other relationships among the individuals or group of individuals or narrative nodes A or narrative data files C may be represented in the polar coordinate perspective space by significance vectors . As may be seen from the radial length of a significance vector will clearly indicate the relative significance between the corresponding object and both the original narrative node AO and any other objects represented in the virtual perspective space . In a like manner the circumferential location of the significance vector may further indicate for example possible relationships of grouping with others of the objects represented in virtual perspective space . The angular distance between two significance vectors may reflect a degree of relationship between the objects corresponding to the significance vectors and a range of relationships between such objects may be described or selected by specifying an angular range of inclusion or exclusion.

The absolute significance of an object such as a person narrative or context data file C or B or narrative node A as opposed to the relative significance of the object with respect to the origin point narrative node A or other objects represented in the perspective space is a function solely of the object itself. As such the absolute significance of an object may be encoded into or represented by for example a corresponding appropriate characteristic of the icon or symbol representing the object.

It must also be noted with respect to the creation and representation of personal significance relationships between the origin narrative node AO and one or more persons represented by a significance vector in the following discussions that personal significance vectors are according to the present invention constructed from the personal information in knowledge entries E of a knowledge database .

There are many possible points during the construction of a work when the perspective of elements relative to one another that is the significance of the elements relative to one another will change. For example an audience may show high interest or response to a context data file B in an interactive presentation and the presenter may respond by selecting that context data file B for emphasis in a subsequent presentation. A system of the present invention will in turn recast the work as displayed to the audience and fetch an alternate set of nodes A that allow illustration of an alternate narrative path P. In other instances one contextual content file B or narrative content file B may replace another of the narrative may be altered to follow a different narrative path P or the role or classification of at least some narrative nodes A or narrative or contextual data files C or B may be changed.

Having herein above described the elements and methods of a work and for constructing a work the following will describe in further detail a system for constructing a work including an exemplary subsystem for generating virtual perspectives and a flowchart of the operation of an exemplary embodiment of a system including a virtual perspective generator.

The virtual perspective generator as illustrated in also demonstrates the high degree of parallelism between the method for populating a personal knowledgebase and the narrative information for a work structure database through a variety of sources including information pertaining to authors characters performers and an audience . It will be recognized that this parallelism facilitates the iterative generation of compound inference queries A as illustrated by the interaction of the processes illustrated with through an inference engine . In a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention an inference engine creates a compound inference query A by combining information from knowledgebase and narrative information as described with reference to for example in a form that can be applied to text audio and visual narrative data files. The query A is then further refined using the relative significance ontology as described herein above with respect to for example E and as a method to return narrative data files C and contextual data files B whose relative significance scores allow them to be organized and presented as virtual perspectives . The virtual perspectives thus created are then stored in display and store subsystem for access by the larger system.

Now considering the general processes by which a system is employed by a user to generate a work illustrates the general operation of an exemplary embodiment of a system including a virtual perspective generator as described above.

Narrative data files C here limited for purposes of illustration to for example audio visual narrative data files and live transmissions reside in remote memory systems as do context data files B containing for example collections of print or other physical media wherein narrative and context data files C and B are typically in the form of digital or analog electronic files. In this regard it should be noted that context data files B may include contextual content A that is being generated live and transmitted electronically and is being otherwise sensed or recorded and contextual content A that is stored in personal content databases as well as licensed contextual data A and public domain or third party contextual data A. The narrative content B and contextual content A thereby includes all materials that are accessible by means of either links to or copies of materials identified by inference queries generated by an inference engine of the virtual perspective generator .

It should be noted that in addition to existing context data files B and modified context data files B the system include or have access to a subsystem capable of generating or capturing context data files B on order. That is a decision to generate potentially desirable context data files B either by request for manual generation or by an automated generation subsystem is possible in that an inference query A identifies context data files B surmised to be of significance to the work and if there is failure to retrieve the inference query A can act as a request for generation of a context data file B.

The functions performed by the system as illustrated in includes the processes of input subsystem of taking found modified or generated narrative and contextual data files C and B and storing them for example on remote memory systems as output resources for use in constructing a specific work where the narrative data files C are. The stored narrative data files C are preferably grouped according to relative significance and into useful categories such as personal material local contextual content A and general contextual data A according to the sub categories previously described in reference to the rules of virtual perspective.

Output resources are then displayed to a system user in a virtual perspective representation in ways described for example in and are provided to a work assembly subsystem which then operates interactively with the user or in a fully automated manner as illustrated in to allow further refinement of the selection and assembly of the narrative nodes A narrative data files C and context data files B into a work . The decision step is then made as to whether the work is to be presented in a live performance or stored for later replay such as by an individual or as in a computer game or presented in a live performance. When the decision step is made to not be live is made the system offers the decision option of storing the results whether the work being presented live or not. It should be understood in this regard storing a work refers to the storage of a non live work and that live works may be stored by being recorded through input subsystem of the system . If the decision step is to store the work without a concurrent live presentation then longer term storage takes place in the remote memory systems after which the system will is able to start a another project or will return to the store decision option and decide no and continue to the completion decision box . If complete the system shuts down otherwise it loops while waiting for a decision at to continue or shutdown or gets new input.

If the user makes the decision step to use the system in a live presentation mode the system invokes the interactive processes illustrated in which results in an ongoing continuous loop performance of the work through the system until the decision is made step to terminate the performance.

Having considered the general operation and use of a system to construct a work the following will consider the operation and use of a system in further detail.

As described herein above a user of a system first proposes and defines one or more narrative nodes A that are to be the basis for the construction of a narrative structure A comprised of narrative nodes A arranged along a narrative path P to form the narrative of the work and links B relating the narrative content B of selected narrative data files C and the contextual content A of selected context data files to the narrative nodes A. As described herein above illustrates the relationships between the narrative data files C and narrative nodes A to create inferential queries A to locate additional narrative data files C and context data files B related to narrative nodes A. It may be seen therein that the narrative nodes A of a work thereby function as keys for the location or identification and selection of narrative and context data files C and B useful in forming and enhancing the work .

As previously discussed in typical system of the prior art searches for possible narrative or context data files C or B requires a search of all possible sources and potentially returns vast numbers of results including null results and inappropriate results that must then be manually sorted. As also described herein above however the system and method of the present invention pre selects narrative data files C and context data files B on the basis of their significance to the author performers characters and audience. For example the narrative node C may use a keyword key image or key sound for fish. Rather than force the author to search all databases for an appropriate fish the system by knowing the time location of the author performers audience and narrative node and characters within the narrative node could anticipate the author s choice per rules provided by the builders of a specific instance of the system. Thus knowing that the narrative node A is set in Japan the system could assign a high relationship value to narrative data files C with narrative content B relating to Japanese koi. As described herein above the inference rules and the rules for selection of narrative and context data files C and B allow a range of interaction styles from fully automatic to assistive to completely manual selection and may control other factors of the selection of narrative and context data files C and B such as automatically providing set ratios of context data files B and narrative data files C to appear in the foreground of the work

In addition the system can suggest related context data files B whose association with the narrative content B specified by the narrative node A can be a stimulus to recollection and engagement of the author performers and audience. For example narrative data file C information held by the system regarding the location and time of the narrative node A the author and the audience allows the system to suggest context data files B containing pictures of koi pools art images and streets in Japanese cities where the action is taking place.

As also described herein above the system has the power to recursively optimize the selection of narrative and context data files C and B. For example a personal photograph chosen by the author can be analyzed by the system using additional knowledge about the author such as a school attended by the author and that individuals in the photo are wearing team uniforms. The system may then test an inference that the figures in the photo are college team members and initiate a search for photos of such team members which it may then possibly use to identify the individuals in the author s photo.

In addition the system can construct a database of narrative data files C using narrative data file databases or as illustrated in and in conjunction with the data in the knowledge database personal table as illustrated in and narrative structure database as illustrated in alter the databases in such a manner as to optimize their significance to the work narrative nodes A and the persons associated with the work . For example the rules guiding the system may allow the system to alter narrative data files C with information extracted from general database so as to match narrative content B descriptions in the personal knowledge database pertaining to the author of the work and to provide the missing media contextual content A.

This principle applies to all combination of narrative data files C including knowledge databases as shown in general databases as shown and narrative structure databases as illustrated in . The author can choose to implement rules that allow narrative data files C from one database to be altered so as to serve as narrative data files C that are described by but missing from another database. Alternatively the rules may give precedence to the narrative node A in the narrative structure database as illustrated in and may alter narrative data files C to correspond to or agree with the narrative node A.

It may therefore be seen that because the system is able to identify missing narrative data files C that would be of potential significance the system may as a consequence generate narrative data files C as needed to fulfill a need for a narrative data file C or context data file B that is missing or that does not exist. For example the narrative data files and context data files C and B accessible to the system may contain no images of Chartres Cathedral on the specified date. Given sufficient information pertaining to Chartres Cathedral in accessible narrative or context data files C or B however such as images of Chartres Cathedral taken under equivalent light and weather conditions the system may extrapolate the weather and lighting conditions and construct an imaginary image of Chartres Cathedral that is significant to the author and audience and that meets the requirements of the narrative node A and its associated persons such a the author members of the audience or characters in the narrative.

Narrative and context data files C and B may further be modified according to the rules set forth for example in a narrative structure database as illustrated in to meet the stylistic requirements or preferences of the author. For example since context data files B can be identified as such using the above described methods and mechanisms of the present invention the author may stylistically modify selected context data files B under the rules set forth in a narrative structure database to make the contextual content A less detailed that is by cartooning the contextual content A to suit the tastes and responses of the author and audience.

Considering the process of modifying narrative or context data files C or B in further detail the first step is to determine a narrative topic such as a vacation in Paris. The author then determines mode of expression the narrative nodes A of the narrative and the additional characters if any. At this point system may be invoked by providing a topic a location and time period and duration as well as a classification personal general local or ubiquitous that will cause narrative data files C to be displayed for the purposes of enhancing the memory and imagination of the author or an author performers and audience if the purpose of the work of communication is to provide a performance . The author may then select from the narrative data files C presented and place them in a narrative relation to one another thus establishing the narrative nodes A that define the underlying narrative structure A.

As previously described the narrative nodes A may be narrative data files C or narratives containing other narrative data files C or other narratives. For example the narrative Paris vacation may contain a media object representing the Eiffel Tower or a narrative node A that is a narrative composed of multiple narrative data files C that communicate a sequence of events objects settings and characters relating to the Eiffel Tower. Once the author chooses a core set of narrative nodes A the author can arrange those narrative nodes A in an appropriate sequence such as a simple chronological order a spatial order an order related to the history of the location rather than the author or any other schema deemed fit by the author.

In addition the author will be asked to choose the output for the narrative since the system will have to use different selection criteria and assemblage principles depending on whether the output will be for example print human interactive performance computer interactive performance film video audio or any form currently in use or to be in use in the future. Note that this process is in contrast to the systems and methods of the prior art which are typically designed and limited to assisting in the creation of work for a specific media. For example a publishing program such as Quark Express will be used to create a print work while Adobe Premier might be used to create a video Macromedia Director to create an interactive computer work Soundforge to create an audio work and so forth.

As described herein above the system and methods of the present invention are structured and operate to identify and manipulate the relationships of the narrative data files C and context data files B to the author characters performers and audience. Using these mechanisms a system is able to extrapolate principles of assemblage from the underlying relationships of the narrative data files C to the narrative characters in the narrative author performers audience and to other areas that may be germane to the work of communication that is the work such as the venue where the work will be presented the specific equipment for transmitting or executing the work and all other environmental aspects that come in contact with the work . For these reasons the author may be prompted by a system to choose tools appropriate to the type of output selected and to choose the level of automation for such tools ranging from completely manual to completely automatic. By tools are meant hardware and software useful in assembling a work typically in the form of templates editing converting assembling correction software and hardware that will translate author intent into actions such as scanning altering and creating media.

Upon the choosing an output format or formats by the author the system will then analyze the narrative and narrative nodes A and extrapolate selection criteria for narrative data files C and B. In addition depending upon the level of automation desired or premised into the design of the system the system will be able to recommend additional narrative data files C or context data files B. As described the system may do so by determining the actual or potential significance relationships between the narrative author performers and audience and existing narrative nodes A and narrative data files C and other narrative data files C thereby anticipating what additional narrative data files C may be potentially incorporated into the work .

For example when placing the narrative nodes A in a basic sequence the author may have left certain narrative nodes A unfilled except for for example a description. The system knowing for example the date and location or other information pertaining to the unfilled narrative node A may then interpret a simple description such as street mime and generate an inference query A and search for a media object that fits the author s stated criteria. In other cases and if required or requested by the author the system may interpret and extrapolate such information as knowledge pertaining for example to the author characters and performers and audience the arc of the narrative and the form of output and apply compositional rules for the medium in which the work is to be executed to suggest additional narrative nodes A for the narrative.

It will be noted that in this mode of operation the system not only learns from the author but also functions as a teaching aid to the author. For example the system can determine that too many adjacent narrative nodes A feature art museums and may suggest the substitution therefore of narrative nodes A featuring restaurants and historic sites to maintain audience interest especially if an audience profile indicates the audience spends more money on food than on art. In further example the system may suggest the addition of a character to the narrative possibly in substitution for a previously existing character to provide a better focus for audience identification. In another related mode of operation a system may for example record the behavior and processes of one or more professional storytellers in assembling a work and use the learning from one author for teaching or assistance to another.

Alternatively the author may choose to be stimulated or guided by the narrative data files C found by searches keyed from but deviating from the original author selected narrative nodes A by some relative degree. In such instances for example the author could therefore choose to have the system assemble the narrative data files C from some other author s databases from the database of a character in the work or from the audience database and may specify some degree of randomization to introduce an element of stimulating surprise.

In another alternative approach to generating a work which may be referred to as author system authoring the author may choose to have the system search for and suggest narrative nodes A or a sequence of narrative nodes A other than those provided by the author. For example starting from one or more narrative topics or narrative nodes A suggested by the author the system may be allowed to generate inference queries A based on associations and patterns typical of well received narratives by other authors and suggest narrative nodes A and sequences of narrative nodes A and associated narrative data files C and context data files B from the results of such searches.

It must be understood with regard to author system authoring system assisted authoring by a human author that a system s operations in searching out narrative nodes A and narrative and context data files C and B that will be of value to the author is based upon searching for patterns and associations in the context of the work databases as described above and the rules of association and significance relationships defined for the system . It must be further understood that the searches performed by a system and the results of the searches are essentially independent of the actual search mechanisms by which the searches are performed. That is a system embodied according to the present invention by the system is agnostic with respect to search technology and the searches may be equally performed for example by artificial intelligence methods pattern recognition methods and systems that observe behavioral histories and extrapolate behavioral preferences such as the past choices and preferences of the author or audience.

Considering the generation of a work by author system authoring in further detail the author may suggest or prescribe one or more initial narrative nodes A or narrative topic and the system may then request further information defining the work . Such additional information may include for example a cost limit or other final output related information such as whether is the output to be for personal or commercial use the anticipated audience size and presentation venue and whether the work to be considered proprietary intellectual property for commercial distribution of a work that is to be free to a family or private circle and so on.

Upon completing all the input choices the system will present the selected narrative data files A in one or more narrative structure A arrangements appropriate to the request of the author and in a manner that allows the author to easily choose between the offered narrative structures A the offered narrative data files C and context data files B that are offered.

In a further alternative form of author system authoring the author may define a set of criteria for the selection of for example narrative topics narrative nodes A and narrative and context data files C and B. The system may then select a range of elements such as narrative topics narrative nodes A and narrative and context data files C and B that meet the criteria provided by the author. The system may then arrange the selected elements according to a dynamic narrative structure A constructed by the system whereupon the resulting work would display all of the selected elements in succession according to the dynamic narrative structure A. That is the resulting work may constantly cycle through a range of narrative nodes A or narrative or context data files C or B in a manner to traverse between for example the author s preference narrative or contextual data B or A that suggest a characters nature performer preferences and the audience preferences while still adhering to the narrative of the work .

Having discussed certain of the possible modes for the creation of a work available through the system and method of the present invention the following will discuss the operation of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention in the creation of a work with the aid of the flow chart of .

The method of the present invention for the creation of a work as illustrated in begins at the point identified as step at which the author is to provide personal narrative content B and is to explicitly define or allow the system to infer from the provided personal narrative content B one or more narrative nodes A of a narrative path P through the work . As described herein above the system will do so by constructing and executing inference queries A that returned narrative data files C useful for setting a context for each narrative node A and thereby defining possible contextual content A and context data files B for each narrative node A.

Therefore beginning with step step requires that the author select a type or class or category of work such as a photo album.

Step requests that the author choose to work with editing tools appropriate to this disclosure or accept a final work step composed of either the raw results R returned from inferential queries A generated from the author s personal narrative content or of a work produced by unconditional acceptance of the work of a fully automated system.

If the author decides to use the editing tools decision step requires the author choose between manual editing tools or fully automated editing tools.

When the decision at step is to use full automation tools typically with the intention that editing will take place by the author selecting a final version from competing versions of each given narrative node A either manually or in combination with the tools step decision step is engaged.

Decision step requires the choice between whether the system takes a rules based approached to step or a random approach to step . It should be noted that implicit in the method of the present invention is the option to choose the degree to which a narrative node A reflects one or more of the system rules discussed above principles of construction of a work manual intervention and random construction.

Step thereby reflects the ability of the author to choose which tools will be used to what degree as observed in the preceding paragraph.

If the decision to add more tools is made the flow returns to step and allows another tool to be added. The author then has the option to go to step to have the system present the narrative node A contents according to a variety of sample layouts as in step . The author may also decide in step whether to have the system provide in step templates in the manner of conventional presentation preparation software. In step the system also offers the choice of whether to turn on system provided hints and suggestions in step .

Once the author has completed selecting the kind and mix of tools in step the system will display the narrative content B for the narrative node A and in step will allow the author to interact with the narrative content B. Typical interactions may include for example moving deleting and resizing the objects for layout purposes.

In addition system may offer the ability to alter the narrative content B of the narrative node A in accordance with decision step . In this regard it should be noted that according to the present invention and if the decision is made in step to alter the narrative content B the system may provide suggestions regarding such modifications of narrative content B or contextual content A based upon for example significance relationships and the results R of inference queries A and combined inference queries AC.

It should be noted at this point that the author has the option at any time of producing a draft that captures the current changes made to the narrative node A as in step and in step to compare that draft to other drafts.

Upon comparison of competing drafts step allows the author to declare the editing process complete and to therefore produce a final output in step or to return to step with the intention of producing additional drafts.

For example given a narrative path P transpiring in Paris system has compiled standard contextual images such as maps of Paris the most well known works of art and architecture famous music of Paris histories of the Eiffel tower factual imagery which shows the height and weight of the Tower pictures taken from the top of the Eiffel tower pictures of the then Mayor picture of the President of Paris images of major news occurrences happening in that region at that time and so on. System may also locate narrative data files C that are not of historic or personal interest but are of interest because of their ubiquity such as billboards or commercials that were common in a particular locale at a particular time styles of dress matchbooks and cigarettes a wine that was in season automobiles the characteristic gratings and wrought iron fences food and popular music and so on.

System may then display such images with the author s personal images to for example create dramatic contrast and such comparisons of general and personal context as seen by the characters within the narrative may reveal interesting associations that would otherwise not be discovered or noticed. In addition the additional narrative and context data files C and B discovered and presented by system may stimulate the author s memories mental or emotional associations and the author may accordingly add new narrative nodes A or narrative or context data files C or B to the work .

It will be noted with respect to the above that the information residing in databases and in narrative data files C allows system to recommend context data files B that belong to the class of context data files B described herein above as local and that are not available to the author either because not captured or subsequently lost but which in retrospect add nuance and detail to the core narrative and which tie general context data files B to the personal narrative. It should also be noted that as discussed above if such local contextual content A is not available the system may be able to generate appropriate local contextual content A from such contextual content A as is available.

It has been described herein above that the method and system of the present invention incorporate the principles of significance relationships and perspective in particular virtual perspective in the organization and structure of the elements of a work including the narrative structure A the narrative nodes A the narrative data files C the context data files B and their narrative and contextual contents B and A and the persons associated with the work . It will be understood and appreciated that the use of the system and method of the present invention to create a work in the general manner described briefly herein above further requires the display of those relationships and perspectives or views in a manner useful to the user or author of the work . The following will next describe certain methods for representing and displaying those relationships and perspectives to a user or author and will further illustrate and describe the principles of significance relationships and virtual perspective as implemented in the system and method of the present invention.

Referring for example to FIGS. E and A D as described previously herein above the relationships between narrative nodes A and narrative data files C are advantageously displayed to a user of a system in a virtual perspective space implemented in a presently preferred embodiment as a multi dimensional polar coordinate space wherein the coordinate origin of perspective space is comprised of an origin point narrative node AO under consideration. Such methods of display of significance relationships may be advantageously extended to the display of relationships among narrative nodes A narrative data files C context data files B and the persons associated with a work and the narrative nodes A thereof.

For example Referring briefly to therein is illustrated the concepts principles and methods of display of virtual perspective and relative significance according to the present invention as discussed and illustrated above with reference to in the context of a sequence of narrative nodes A as typically found in a work .

Referring next to therein is shown a diagrammatic illustration of a virtual perspective space showing a variety of exemplary methods for representing and displaying relationships between narrative data files C and narrative nodes A in a narrative such as to a user of a system or method for manipulating such elements and relationships

As described with reference to the objects are arranged by distance from the polar coordinate origin center to represent relative significance by proximity to the center. In addition the absolute significance of the individual objects is represented in this example by assigning corresponding sizes to the icons and symbols representing the objects. The relationships between the narrative data files C and origin narrative node AO is graphically represented by different types of lines connecting the narrative data files C with the origin point narrative node A. For example solid lines may represent direct relationships between narrative data files C and individuals dotted lines may represent indirect relationships wherein for example one person influences but is not directly related to another double lines may represent relationships to narrative or context data files C or B of places and so on. In further example the thickness of the lines connecting objects may represent the strength and nature of a relationship such as the overall and relative significance of the relationship the type of connection and so on using methods and representations well known to those versed in the art of computer interface design where customization of the presentation information on a computer screen is routinely done.

Referring next to therein is illustrated how the preceding virtual perspective information illustrated in and in inclusive which is referred to herein as the radar screen display could appear on a screen along with the most obvious controls for navigating such a virtual perspective such as up down right left and in out along with navigation data useful in orienting within the narrative data file collection such as radar screen display maps where an iconic representation useful for orientation is provided as a visual metaphor for understanding the relationships of the representations of the narrative data files vector degrees distance altitude coordinates and pop up screens with information such as the absolute significance which is metaphorically represented as size metric the relative significance which is metaphorically represented as a distance metric from the viewer type local personal general iconic as well as price seller links to seller and conditions of use if appropriate about the narrative data files. It should be noted that a pop up screen may be an involuntary pop up screen by which is meant that the screen may appear in the display until some condition has been met. Typical uses of such involuntary pop up screens include for example media objects for advertising presentations catalogs of offerings and so on but may be used in the sense intended herein as a screen that will prevent some action from being taken such as a next step in a process until some other action has been taken to meet a related requirement such as the entry of required information.

An additional use for the display of alternating media objects in the same location is to resolve when multiple media objects of sufficiently identical characteristics such as lying on the same vector having the same size or the same distance are collocated. In such a case the media objects may alternately be shown in the same location till a choice made for this example we imagine a roll over with a cursor stopping the succession media objects displayed and the a mouse click voice command key stroke or any useful input being the selector of that media object. Common usages such as shift and click may potentially be used to select a group of images or some non sequential set of criteria meeting media objects. It should be noted that an alternative to temporally alternating media objects is have spatially and temporally alternating media objects.

The illustrated example of suggests how narrative data files C viewed by a viewer positioned at the center node distance of 0 on a vector of polar coordinates with an altitude of 45 might see narrative data files C. It is understood that the user interface may benefit from a three dimensional rather than a two dimensional representation. In such instances the altitude coordinate is provided to compensate for blocking views of the contents of narrative data files C or context data files B by images of intervening data files C or B. An altitude control however allows the viewer to look down upon the landscape with the data file C and B images being canted to face the viewer so that the viewer is allowed a relatively clear view of all the data files C and B appearing in the virtual perspective . An associated zoom control would be useful to more closely examine an image and the use of a grow and shrink control would allow the user to magnify the images to fill the screen or to reduce the images to the simple icons as in the preceding figures. Likewise a transparency control would be helpful in cases where the images block by allowing the user to see through the intervening images.

The user will typically also have a control to vary the field of view thereby allowing greater or lesser inclusion of data files C and B pertinent to the inquiry. As noted with respect to varying the field of view could render the exemplary display in this figure in an apparently hyperbolic space. It should also be noted that narrowing the field of view while increasing the magnification may allow objects that appear to be occupying an identical locations to be seen to be occupying different locations in the virtual perspective.

In addition the use of a logarithmic scale with indicators as to the relative positions of the data files C and B in the virtual perspective scale wherein both virtual distance as well as horizontal displacement are shown in the field of view by length of the line on the scale would be of value to provide a more precise sense of the relative positions of the data files C and B.

Media content type indicators may also be of value to clearly indicate audio video and other time based content that may not be otherwise self apparent and as noted in arrow and lines could continue to be useful to provide visual indicators of relationships.

Finally a home control would prove useful to reset settings to a default state and point of view along with typical controls such as backtrack commands control customization and movement and manipulation of the images allowing the user of the interface to correct system estimates of the significance of the data files C and B familiar to anyone using a computer operating system.

Referring next to therein is illustrated additional controls for a graphical user interface appropriate to using a virtual perspective thereby resulting in the display of and navigation through a virtual landscape.

Such additional controls are a means of controlling what objects are to be selected and shown and may include for example the sliders represented in where such sliders can be used to select a point on the vector of personal significance and to select the size of a region on that line. In this illustration the sliders are placed the scale to directly control the virtual perspective being produced. The first gray relative significance slider is placed on the relative significance amount it being understood that any metric that ranges from indicating the highest relative significance in this case to the lowest relative significance in this case 0 will be equally useful regardless of the direction of the numbering. The black slider defines the upper range of relative significance on the scale while the white slider defines the lower range of relative significance on the same scale. The light green button is a range locking control . When the control is activated the range selected by the sliders and is made the overall range for the display.

Lastly illustrates a graphical user interface that includes motion and selection to create a virtual landscape. Motion is indicated with motion lines that also give a sense of significance by suggesting which narrative or content data files C or B are closer and which are farther as the lines are occluded or in turn occlude a media object or icon. When a falling object is selected with the cursor C and a selection action such as a mouse click key click and so on the object is selected and an indicator of this selection is provided in this case of the lock icon with the icon remaining in the display at least until the narrative or content data files C or B has been integrated into the landscape. It should be noted that in this example the point of view altitude relative to the plane of the virtual landscape has been diminished thus causing the media objects to be more likely to occlude one another and the scale to be shortened.

Further with regard to virtual landscapes incorporating motion and selection it must be realized that the concept of motion in virtual perspective can be a significant feature in the display of the relative significance of elements in a work . That is distance and vector from the point of view are meaningful coordinates so that the appearance of motion caused by changing the classifications and relative significance of the elements of a work may reflect changes in the underlying information. For example a media object or icon for a media object may move closer or farther away depending on the systems changing evaluation of relative significance as new information is acquired that changes the results of the calculation for relative significance.

In the case of a planar representation then the media objects or icons for media objects can be introduced into the display in a gradual manner that is by raining down upon the plane from above unless the vertical dimension has been deemed by the user to be meaningful dimension that is has been assigned to represent a particular aspect of the media objects. If for example the vertical vector is to be used to suggest a meaningful aspect of the media object and the polar vectors are designated to be equivalent to north south east and west then in a useful consistent Euclidean convention the vertical vector would be used for suggesting altitude or depth relative to the narrative node A point of view. This representation in turn allows an on the fly selection of narrative or content data files C or B. For example a narrative or context data file C or B may be selected for inclusion in the virtual landscape by clicking on a falling image or icon representing the narrative or context data file C or B. Not selecting the narrative or context data file C or B by clicking on the icon or image would allow the icon or image to fall through the ground level and disappear. It is understood that the opposite effect can be selected as a default that is that the narrative or context data file C or B rest upon the ground surface unless they are selected by being clicked.

The motion of the narrative or context data file C or B icons or images as they fall such as rate of fall changes to the rate of fall and path of fall that is an angular or wobbling and so on may also serve as useful indicators of characteristics of the content of the narrative or context data file C or B.

Motion is equally applicable to cases where the representation is three dimensional in the sense that media objects or icons of objects are arranged in a virtual space that lacks a surface to orient to thus allowing a greater number of pseudo spatial vectors to be used for organization of the media objects. This embodiment essentially floats the point of view in a cloud of objects and icons with those objects moving relative to each other such as orbiting each other in a hierarchical or non hierarchical manner.

It should be noted that the point of view can be moved and specifically the point of view can be rotated at some speed chosen by the user thus imparting motion to all objects and thereby allowing all objects and icons along all vectors to be viewed over time.

Finally the icons or images representing the objects and icons can themselves include moving aspects. For example they may pulse or show some additional identifying motion such as vibrating spinning or rotating folding along one or more axes as well as being animated in their own right that is appearing to wave arms or legs move lips etc. in addition to changing qualities such as shape hue intensity saturation and transparency.

This node display is a useful navigation display but it is known that in some cases a simple control to move to the next node or a control to move to the previous node is also desirable. In addition it is desirable in certain instances to have controls for seeking a narrative node A. For example when a preview node is selected with a control or when both current and preview controls and are on the same narrative node A basic information about the node may be presented. It should be remembered that the virtual landscape is constructed around a core narrative node A and an additional window may be provided to display the current core narrative node A and its context data file B and or the core narrative data files C in other media. For example it is illustrated that text material constituting the narrative node C is displayed window while musical material is displayed in a window and the visual icon for the narrative node A to be display or previewed is display in a window . It is understood that additional preview windows for textual and musical material may likewise be provided as well as additional windows for scripted actions. It is further understood that there is no conceptual limit to the number windows possible for each media and that there may be more than one text one visual one audio one scripting window for the core narrative node A in the same manner as in Macromedia Director.

It should be noted that the movement between narrative nodes A can be suggested or ignored that is changes can be instantaneous or the objects that are new can fall or fade into the viewing frame as the media objects that are no longer appropriate sink out of sight or fade away. It is understood that moving between narrative nodes A may be abrupt or may appear as continuous interpolation of the positions of the narrative or context data files C or B.

Likewise the radar view display may allow the narrative node A that indicates the anchor location of the point of view to stay in the center of the display but the surrounding objects to stream or fade in or out of frame depending on whether they are connected to the narrative node A towards which the user is directing his attention. It is understood that movement can be towards a previous node a following node a node that branches from the current narrative line as well as having the option of skipping intervening nodes viewing the point of view from a specific node is desired.

A graphical user interface may also allow the point of view to move moving into a media object and display the internal components of the object in for example sub regions of the object. Such subordinate components of an object may comprise for example an image of a particular person place or thing in a still or motion image a particular passage paragraph sentence or phrase in a written or spoken communication or a theme or movement in a piece of music. It may also include a constellation of equal components when the object itself has a narrative structure A such as a book film or musical work or is a collection of objects of equal value per the current search and display criteria.

It is also advantageous that a display include the links between data narrative nodes A and narrative and context data files C and B and to have pop up boxes to display information about a narrative node A or narrative or context data file C or B when indicated by the cursor. In a like manner information about a narrative node A or narrative or context data file C or B may be conveyed by changes in the appearance of the icon or image representing the a narrative node A or narrative or context data file C or B such as the color of the object distortion of the object movement of the object or other visual and audio characteristics such as changing hue saturation and intensity.

The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention.

