---

title: Systems and methods for identity-based communication gate for social networks
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed that provide for control of online communication services, including social networks and video games. In some embodiments, parents of children engaging in activities using online communication services can control who their child can engage in communications with, while using online communication services. In some embodiments, parents can monitor potentially problematic communications between their child and other subscribers of an online communication service. Thus, subscribers of online communication services can be prevented from misrepresenting themselves or concealing important information, including age and gender.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918840&OS=08918840&RS=08918840
owner: Better Dating Bureau, Inc.
number: 08918840
owner_city: Laguna Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080111
---
This application incorporates by reference U.S. application Ser. No. 10 395 324 filed Mar. 20 2003 and U.S. application Ser. No. 10 330 573 filed Dec. 26 2002 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference and should be considered a part of this specification.

This disclosure relates to the field of online communications. More specifically this disclosure relates to computer implemented methods and systems for blocking communications between users of a computer network.

Some online social networking and gaming providers online providers offer communication services to their subscribers. Using such a service a subscriber can request to contact other subscribers and or engage in other activities including video gaming with other subscribers.

A significant problem with offering communications services is that online providers are plagued by the problem of subscribers either misrepresenting themselves or concealing important information including age and gender. Further parents of children engaging in activities using these online providers are often unable to control who their child can communicate while using the services of online providers. These issues are especially problematic when parents are unable to monitor potentially problematic communications between their child and other subscribers.

Systems and methods are disclosed that provide for certified parental control of online communication services including social networks and video games. In some embodiments parents of children engaging in activities using online communication services can control who their child can engage in communications with while using online communication services. In some embodiments parents can monitor communications between their child and other subscribers of an online communication service. Thus subscribers of online communication services can be prevented from misrepresenting themselves or concealing important information including age and gender.

In some embodiments a system for providing certified parental control of online social networks and video games is provided. The system can include a database including at least one entry associated with a set of control limits for a child the set of control limits corresponding to categories of persons the child may communicate with. The system can further include a certification server configured to communicate with an online communication server over a network to provide access to the database the certification server including a server application that a registers and certifies a parent b registers and certifies a child and c receives and stores control limits in the database. The certification server can be configured to respond to a parental control request from the online communication server that matches an entry in the database associated with a child by checking whether a subscriber is within the categories of persons the child may communicate with. The online communication server can be configured to filter enable prevent or disable a subscriber communication from the subscriber to the child depending on the response from the certification server.

In some embodiments a system for providing certified parental control of an interactive application is provided. The system can include a database including at least one entry associated with a set of control limits for a child the set of control limits corresponding to categories of persons the child may communicate with. The system can further include a certification server configured to communicate with a client over a network to provide access to the database the certification server including a server application that a registers and certifies a parent b registers and certifies a child and c receives and stores control limits in the database. The certification server can be configured to respond to a parental control request from the client that matches an entry in the database associated with a child by checking whether a subscriber is within the categories of persons the child may communicate with. The client can be configured to filter enable prevent or disable a subscriber communication from the subscriber to the child depending on the response from the certification server.

In some embodiments a system for providing certified parental control of an online communication service is provided. The system can include a database including at least one entry associated with a set of control limits for a second person the set of control limits corresponding to categories of persons the second person may communicate with. The system can further include a first server configured to communicate with a second server over a network to provide access to the database the first server including a server application that a registers and certifies a first person b registers and certifies a second person and c receives and stores control limits in the database. The first server can be configured to respond to a parental control request from the second server that matches an entry in the database associated with a second person by checking whether a third person is within the categories of persons the second person may communicate with. The second server can be configured to enable disable prevent or filter a third party communication from the third person to the second person depending on the response from the first server.

In some embodiments a system for providing certified parental control of online communication services is provided. A client can be configured to communicate with a certification server. The client can also be configured to filter enable or disable a subscriber communication from a subscriber to a child depending on the response from the certification server.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method of providing certified parental control for online social networks and video games is provided. The method can include registering and certifying a first person registering and certifying a second person and registering and certifying a third person. The method can further include receiving and storing in a database a set of control limits from the first person the set of control limits associated with categories of persons the second person may communicate with. The method can further include receiving a third party communication over a network from a third person directed to the second person. The method can further include checking whether the third person is within the associated categories of persons the second person may communicate with. The method can further include in response to the checking filtering enabling or blocking the third party communication from the third person.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method of providing certified parental control of an interactive application is provided. The method can include receiving and storing in a database a set of control limits from a first person the set of control limits associated with categories of persons a second person may communicate with. The method can further include receiving a communication to the second person from a third person. The method can further include in response to receiving the communication automatically checking in the database whether the third person is not within the categories of persons the second person may communicate with. The checking can inhibit unauthorized communications to the second person from the third person.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method of providing certified parental control for online communication services is provided. The method can include receiving and storing in a database a set of control limits from a first person the set of control limits associated with categories of persons a second person may communicate with. The method can further include receiving a communication to the second person from a third person. The method can further include in response to receiving the communication automatically checking in the database whether the third person is within the categories of persons the second person may communicate with. The checking can allow authorized communications to the second person from the third person.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method of providing certified parental control for online communication services is provided. The method can include receiving a third party communication over a network from a third person directed at a child. The method can further include checking whether the third person is within associated categories of persons the child may communicate with. The method can further include in response to the checking filtering enabling or blocking the third party communication from the third person.

Neither this summary nor the following detailed description purports to define or limit the inventions.

Numerous technical details are set forth in this description. These details are provided to illustrate a embodiments of the inventions and are not intended to limit the inventions. Thus nothing in this detailed description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic or component of the disclosed system is essential to the inventions.

For purposes of illustration some embodiments are described below in the context of parental controls of childrens communications over the internet. The inventors contemplate that the systems and methods described herein can be used in other environments such as for example communications between any parties whether over the internet the World Wide Web private networks e.g. for hospitals a broadcast network e.g. government agency an internal network e.g. corporate enterprise an intranet a local area network a wide area network and so forth. Additionally the applications described below through which the parties whether they are children or adults communicate can include multi player games Massively Multiplayer Games MMOGs on line dating services social networking sites etc.

The figures and descriptions set forth below however relate to environments where children with each other communicate over the internet. It is also recognized that in other embodiments the systems and methods can be implemented as a single module and or implemented in conjunction with a variety of other modules and the like. Moreover the specific implementations described herein are set forth in order to illustrate and not to limit the invention. The scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Systems and methods are described below that can provide for certified parental control of online communication services including social networks and video games. In some embodiments parents of children engaging in activities using online communication services can control who their child can engage in communications with while using online communication services. In some embodiments parents can monitor communications between their child and other subscribers of an online communication service. Thus subscribers of online communication services can be prevented from misrepresenting themselves or concealing important information including age and gender.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific embodiments or processes in which the invention can be practiced. Where possible the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like components. In some instances numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. The present disclosure however can be practiced without the specific details or with certain alternative equivalent components and methods to those described herein. In other instances well known components and methods have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present disclosure.

In the illustrated embodiment a plurality of computing systems are in communication with a network and the interactive application server and or the certification server are also in communication with the network . The computing system interactive application server various modules and or various components can in some embodiments be configured as a client of the certification server . Communication over the network can take place using sockets ports and or other mechanisms recognized in the art. As depicted in this drawing one or more subscribers use a computing system with access to the network to access the interactive application server and or the certification server .

In some embodiments the interactive application server can comprise a server system typically comprising multiple physical computers machines and associated content that are accessible via the network. The interactive application server can be implemented using physical computer servers that are geographically remote from one another and or can include content that spans multiple internet domains. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the interactive application server can be accessible by computing systems via a network . In the illustrated embodiment the interactive application server is in communication with a network the computing system and or the certification server .

In some embodiments the certification server can comprise a server system typically comprising multiple physical computers machines and associated content that are accessible via the network. The interactive application server can be implemented using physical computer servers that are geographically remote from one another and or can include content that spans multiple internet domains. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the certification server can be accessible by computing systems via a network . In the illustrated embodiment the certification server is in communication with a network the computing system and or interactive application server . Generally the interactive application server and the certification server described herein refer can be integrated with one another and or sub divided despite their physical organization or storage.

The computing system can be used to implement certain systems and methods described herein. For example in some embodiments the computing system can be configured to receive a third party communication over a network from a third person directed at a child check whether the third party is within associated categories of persons the child can communicate with and respond by enabling or blocking the third party communication. The functionality provided for in the components and modules of the computing system can be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

The computing system can include for example a personal computer that is IBM Macintosh or Linux Unix compatible. In some embodiments the computing device can comprise a server a laptop computer a cell phone a personal digital assistant a kiosk or an audio player for example. Additionally the exemplary computing system can include a central processing unit CPU which can include a conventional microprocessor. The computing system can further include a memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information and a read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device. Typically the modules of the computing system are connected to the computer using a standards based bus system. In different embodiments the standards based bus system could be Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Microchannel SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures for example.

The computing system can generally be controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Linux SunOS Solaris or other compatible operating systems. In Macintosh systems the operating system can be any available operating system such as MAC OS X. In other embodiments the computing system can be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Conventional operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking and I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The exemplary computing system includes one or more commonly available input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touchpad and printer. In some embodiments the I O devices and interfaces include one or more display device such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user. More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs application software data and multimedia presentations for example. The computing system can also include one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces provide a communication interface to various external devices. In the embodiment of the computing system is coupled to a network such as a LAN WAN or the Internet for example via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication links. The network communicates with various computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links.

In the exemplary embodiment of the network is coupled to an interactive application server such as a social network server video gaming sever and or other online communication service server. The interactive application server can be coupled to an interactive communication log database . The network is also connected to a certification server . The certification server can be connected to a personal information database which can include a private or government public information database and a control limits database .

The interactive application server can be configured to allow subscribers to engage in various communications with one another contact one another and or engage in other interactive activities. The information supplied by the certification server can include the personal information of subscribers of the interactive application server . This personal information can include a subscriber s name social security number passport number driver s license number various government issued identification address date of birth gender telephone number photograph mother s maiden name and or other information. In some embodiments the certification server can be configured to communicate with the interactive application server over the network to enable or disable subscriber communications between subscribers using computing systems based on personal information.

In addition to the devices that are illustrated in the network can communicate with other data sources databases and or other computing devices. In addition the data sources can include one or more internal and or external data sources. In some embodiments one or more of the data sources and or databases can be implemented using a relational database such as Sybase Oracle CodeBase and Microsoft SQL Server as well as other types of databases such as for example a flat file database an entity relationship database and object oriented database and or a record based database.

In some embodiments the interactive application module can be a video game such as an online multi player gaming application including Club Penguin World of Warcraft Second Life or other games. In some embodiments the interactive application module can be a commercially available email application such as Mozilla Thunderbird and or Microsoft Outlook. In some embodiments the interactive application module can be a web browser application such as Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari and or Microsoft Internet Explorer which implement the basic World Wide Web standards such as HTTP and HTML.

In various embodiments the interactive application module can deliver various media to the subscriber such as email services including Gmail Yahoo Mail and Hotmail. In various embodiments the interactive application module can deliver various media to the subscriber including video such as YouTube and or images such as Snapfish and or Flickr. In some embodiments the interactive application module can be a social networking web site such as Friendster Facebook Match.com JDate.com and or MySpace.

In some embodiments the interactive application module can be a collaborative real time editor such as ACE CoWord and or EditGrid that allows several people to edit a computer file such as a spreadsheet and or text document using different computers at the same time. In some embodiments the interactive application module can be a chat client such as AOL Instant Messenger and or Google Talk. The interactive application module can include by way of example components such as software components object oriented software components class components and or task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of program code drivers firmware microcode circuitry data databases data structures tables arrays and or variables.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example Java Lua C or C . A software module can be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or can be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules can be callable from other modules or from themselves and or can be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software instructions can be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules can be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or can be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but can be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that can be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

In the embodiments described herein the computing system is configured to execute the interactive application communication module among others in order to enable communication between the interactive application module and the interactive application server . For example in some embodiments the interactive application module can be a video game. When the interactive application module needs to receive information such as the next level of a video game from the interactive application server the interactive application communication module can use the network to access the interactive application server to receive such information. Alternatively when the interactive application module needs to send information such as player progress on the current level of a video game to the interactive application server the interactive application communication module can use the network to access the interactive application server to send such information.

In some embodiments the computing system can be configured to execute the certification application module among others in order to register and or certify a subscriber of the interactive application server . The certification application module can be configured to allow a subscriber of the interactive application server to provide personal information to register with the certification server . In an exemplary embodiment the subscriber can be a parent and or a child. In some embodiments the subscriber can be certified when the personal information such as age and or gender can be verified to ensure its accuracy by the certification server .

As described above the personal information can include a subscriber s name social security number driver s license number passport number various government identification address date of birth gender telephone number photograph mother s maiden name other photographs videos and or other identity verification information. In some embodiments the personal information provided to the interactive application server by the certification application module can be an identifier such as a pin number and or confirmation number associated with the subscriber. The identifier can be unique to a subscriber and or associated with multiple subscribers.

In some embodiments the identifier can be associated with an age group gender and or other groups. In some embodiments the identifier can be obtained when the subscriber confirms his identity with a notary a certification center and or a certification server by presenting a document such as a passport birth certificate social security card driver s license and or other documents. In an exemplary embodiment a parent and or a child can confirm his identity with the certification server using personal information.

In some embodiments using the techniques described above the certification application module can be configured to verify that subscribers are certified. In an exemplary embodiment the interactive application module is configured to access the subscriber communication module when a subscriber attempts to communicate with another subscriber such as a child of the interactive application server . The subscriber communication module can then access the interactive application server which in turn can access the certification server to check whether the subscriber is within a set of associated categories of persons the child can communicate with. When the certification server responds to the interactive application server communications between the child and the subscriber can be enabled filtered and or disabled by the interactive application server .

In some embodiments filtering can include reducing altering and or changing the content of communications between the subscriber and child. In other embodiments a response can be sent back to the computing system of the child and or subscriber over the network from the interactive application server such that the computing system enables or disables communications between the child and subscriber.

As illustrated in the computing system can also include a parental control module . The parental control module can be configured to allow a parent to set up and or control who their child can communicate with while using the interactive application module . In various embodiments the parental control module can store control limits on the computing system and or can use the network to access the interactive application server and or the certification server to store control limits. In some embodiments a parent can enter in various control limits on subscribers of the interactive application server that their child can participate and or engage in communications with. These control limits can include a minimum age maximum age gender names and or other restrictions on subscribers that their child can communicate with. Additionally in some embodiments a parent can enter a limit that their child can only communicate with specific other people identified by a unique PIN certification password or the like.

In some embodiments the control limits can include limits on the level of subscriber memberships that their child can contact. It can be desirable to have three levels of subscribers bronze silver and gold with bronze being a subscriber who has confirmed the least amount of certification information such as identity date of birth gender height and or weight a current photograph s and or marital status. A silver subscriber can additionally require home ownership confirmation income verification and or a credit report. A gold membership can additionally require the silver and gold information and in addition driving and criminal records substance abuse testing professional license association information and or other information. It should be noted that the level of subscribers are provided as an exemplary embodiment and there can be as few as two or more than three.

Additionally parental control limits can include dates and or times when a child can engage in communications while using the interactive application module . In exemplary embodiments when the subscriber date and or time does not satisfy the parental control limits in place communications using the interactive application module are not permitted. Alternatively if the control limits are satisfied communications using the interactive application module are permitted.

In some embodiments the parental control module can be configured to allow a parent to log communications made by their child while using the interactive application module . In some embodiments the logged communications can be stored on the computing system the interactive application server and or the certification server . Advantageously the parental control module can notify the parent of potential problems in the logged communications. In some embodiments the parental control monitor can search the logged communications such as text voice video images documents and or other communications for profanity sexual and or other content. This searching can be advantageous in determining whether a communication is suspicious and or problematic. The parental control module can also track the time and or date of communications made while using the interactive application module the length of communications the identity of the subscriber that was communicated with and can be configured to allow the printing saving emailing viewing and deletion of the communications.

The computing system can also comprise a subscriber communication module . In some embodiments the computing system is configured to execute the subscriber communication module when a subscriber wishes to communicate with another subscriber while using the interactive application module . For example in some embodiments the interactive application module can be an online social network. When a subscriber such as child is contacted by another subscriber and or a child contacts another subscriber the subscriber communication module can be executed by the interactive application module .

The subscriber communication module can then communicate over the network with the interactive application server and or the certification server . In an exemplary embodiment the certification server is contacted and responds as to whether the subscriber satisfies the control limits configured by the parent. The subscriber communication module can then inhibit block and or enable communication between the subscriber and the child when they are using the interactive application module . In some embodiments the subscriber communication module can be configured to allow a level of communication between the child and subscriber that is in between completely enabling or disabling all communication. In an embodiment the subscriber communication module can selectively permit certain communications between the child and subscriber.

For example in some embodiments the interactive application module can be a video game. When the interactive application module needs to receive information such as the next level of a video game from the interactive application server the interactive application communication module can use the network to access the interactive application server to receive such information. When the interactive application server is contacted the interactive application service module can be executed. The interactive application service module can then send back to the interactive application communication module the next level of the video game. The interactive application communication module can then update the interactive application module with the next level of the video game.

Alternatively when the interactive application module may need to send information such as player progress on the current level of a video game to the interactive application server the interactive application communication module can use the network to access the interactive application server to send such information. When the interactive application server is contacted the interactive application service module can then be executed and receive the updated information from the interactive application communication module .

As further illustrated in the interactive application server can include an interactive application network module . The interactive application network module can be configured to enable communication between various subscribers of the interactive application sever while using the interactive application module . In an exemplary embodiment when a child uses the interactive application module to communicate with another subscriber using the interactive application module the interactive application server is contacted and the interactive application network module is executed. The interactive application network module can execute the subscriber authentication module among others to ensure that the parental control limits are satisfied. In some embodiments the subscriber authentication module can execute the interactive application network module .

The interactive application network module can use various mechanisms to enable communication between subscribers. In some embodiments the interactive application network module among others can use sockets ports and or other mechanisms recognized in the art to enable communication among subscribers. The interactive application network module can directly forward communications between subscribers to one another and or perform processing on the communications using the various modules described herein.

The interactive application server can also include a subscriber certification module . In some embodiments the interactive application server is configured to execute the subscriber certification module among others in response to a request over the network from the certification application module of a computing system to register and or certify a subscriber of the interactive application server . The subscriber certification module can serve as an interface between a subscriber s computing system and the certification server .

The interactive application server can also include a subscriber authentication module . In some embodiments the interactive application server is configured to execute the subscriber authentication module among others in response to a request such as a parental control request over the network from the subscriber communication module of a computing system to authenticate validate and or verify that a subscriber of the interactive application server is within a set of associated categories that another subscriber such as a child can communicate with. In an exemplary embodiment the subscriber authentication module is configured to access the certification server . When the certification server responds to the subscriber authentication module communications between the child and subscriber can be enabled blocked and or inhibited. The subscriber certification module can serve as an interface between a subscriber s computing system and the certification server .

In some embodiments the subscriber authentication module can validate and or verify that a subscriber is within a set of associated categories that another subscriber such as a child can communicate with without using the certification server . In some embodiments the subscriber certification module can use a cache such as a database to store the personal information of subscribers. This can be advantageous in avoiding communication with the certification server to check whether a subscriber is certified. The cache can store personal information for subscribers that were recently certified by the certification server .

In the illustrated embodiments the interactive application server also includes a parent configuration module . In some embodiments the parent configuration module can be configured to communicate with the parental control module on a computing system and or forward communications from the parental control module to the certification server . In some embodiments the forwarded communications can be control limits set by a parent for their child to limit the subscribers of the interactive application server that their children can communicate with while using the interactive application module . Alternatively the parent configuration module can be configured similar to the parental control module of the computing system .

As further depicted in the interactive application server includes a communication logging module . The communication logging module can be configured to log communications between subscribers of the interactive application server for later review by accessing an interactive application communication log database . In some embodiments the communication logging module can record some or all communications between subscribers by accessing the interactive application network module which can permit subscribers of the interactive application server to communicate with one another. In an exemplary embodiment a parent of a child can use the parental control module to enable or disable the logging of communications made by their child while using the interactive application module .

As illustrated in the interactive application server can access the interactive application communication log database which can be used to store the logged communications. In some embodiments the interactive application communication log database can track the time and or date subscribers involved in the communications the length of the communications and whether the communications are problematic. Communications can be determined to be problematic or suspicious by using filtering software known in the art. Alternatively the logged communications can be stored on the computing system and or the certification server .

The interactive application server can advantageously include a parental monitor module . In some embodiments the parental monitor module can be configured to access the interactive application communication log database . In an exemplary embodiment a parent of a child can use the parental control module to communicate with the parental monitor module . The parental monitor module can access the interactive communication log database of the interactive application server and send back the logged communications of a child to the parental control module of the computing system . In some embodiments the parental monitor module can search the logged communications and alert the parent by reporting suspicious and or potentially problematic communications to the parental control module .

In an exemplary embodiment the service module can comprise a service registration module . The service registration module can be configured to handle the registration process of an interactive application server with the certification server and or allow access for the interactive application server to the certification server . In some embodiments if an interactive application server is not registered with certification server the interactive application server can not access the certification server . In some embodiments an interactive application server can be registered if its IP address and or domain name is known to the certification server .

The service registration module in some embodiments can include a list of registered interactive application servers and can grant access to interactive application servers based on their appearance on such a list. In some embodiments the list can include IP addresses and or domain names of authorized interactive application servers. Based on such a list the service registration module can exclude unauthorized interactive application servers such that access to the certification server can be denied to unregistered interactive application servers.

As further depicted in the service module can include a service configuration module . In some embodiments the service configuration module can allow an interactive application server to be configured such that it can access the certification server . In some embodiments once the interactive application server has been registered by the service registration module the service configuration module can be used to provide an application programming interface to the interactive application server such that the certification server can be accessed.

As illustrated in the subscriber module can include a certification module . In some embodiments the certification server can be configured to execute the certification module among others in response to a request from the subscriber certification module of the interactive application server to register and or certify a subscriber of the interactive application server . In some embodiments the certification module can communicate directly with the certification application module to register and or certify a subscriber.

In some embodiments upon receiving a request from the subscriber certification module and or the certification application module the certification module can access a personal information database . In some embodiments when a subscriber registers and or certifies with the certification server the personal information database can be updated. The personal information database can include a subscriber identification subscriber date of birth and or subscriber gender . In some embodiments the subscriber identification can be an alphanumeric identifier uniquely associated with a subscriber.

In some embodiments the personal information database can contain a record uniquely associated with a subscriber identification . Each record can contain information including the subscriber s date of birth gender name social security number passport number driver s license number various government issued identification address telephone number photograph mother s maiden name and or other information. This information can be entered into personal information database when a subscriber is registered and or certified with the certification server and or at other times.

As further depicted in the subscriber module can include a control limits module . The control limits module can be configured to communicate with the parental control module of the computing system through the parent configuration module of the interactive application server and or directly over the network . In an exemplary embodiment the parent can enter update and delete various control limits on subscribers of the application server that their child can participate and or engage in communications with using the parental control module . The parental control module can then be configured to communicate with the parent configuration module of interactive application server . The control limits module can be configured to respond to a request from the parent configuration module to enter control limits.

In some embodiments the control limits module accesses a control limits database to track communication control limits placed on subscribers of an interactive application server . In some embodiments when a parent enters updates or deletes control limits placed on who their child can engage in communications with the certification server can be configured to execute the control limits module and the control limits database can be adjusted accordingly. The control limits database can include a subscriber identification corresponding to a subscriber such as a child. In some embodiments the subscriber identification can be an alphanumeric identifier uniquely associated with a subscriber.

In an exemplary embodiment the control limits database can contain a record uniquely associated with a subscriber identification . As illustrated in each record in the control limits database can include limitations such as a minimum age maximum age and or gender on subscribers that a child can communicate with. Additionally in some embodiments each record in the control limits database can include other information placing limitations on who a subscriber can engage in communications with. These control limits can include days and or times limiting when a child can engage in communications while using the interactive application module .

In some embodiments the subscriber module of the certification server can also include an authentication module . In some embodiments the certification server is configured to execute the authentication module among others in response to a request such as a parental control request over the network from the subscriber authentication module of the interactive application server to authenticate validate and or verify that a subscriber of the interactive application server is within a set of associated categories that another subscriber such as a child can communicate with.

In some embodiments the subscriber communication module and or the subscriber authentication module can send the subscriber identification of two subscribers to the authentication module to verify that they can communicate with one another. In an exemplary embodiment a first subscriber of the interactive application server can attempt to communicate with a second subscriber such as a child. To verify that the first subscriber is within the set of associated categories that the child can communicate with the authentication module can be configured to have access to the personal information database and or the control limits database .

In some embodiments the authentication module can use a language such as SQL to retrieve the record associated with the subscriber identification of the first subscriber in the personal information database . The authentication module can likewise retrieve the record associated with the subscriber identification of the child in the control limits database . The authentication module can then be configured to check whether the first subscriber is within the set of associated categories that the parent of the child has allowed the child to communicate with. When the authentication module of the certification server responds communications between the child and subscriber can be enabled blocked and or inhibited. In other embodiments the computing system can communicate with the authentication module of the certification server directly .

In step a parent and child provide personal information to a certification center. In some embodiments the parent and or child provide personal information. In some embodiments personal information can be provided to the certification center using a computing system . In some embodiments the certification server can be configured as a certification center. In some embodiments the personal information can be sent over a network to the certification center and or to an interactive application server .

As described herein the personal information can include a subscriber s name social security number driver s license number passport number various government identification address date of birth gender telephone number photograph mother s maiden name and or other identity verification information. In some embodiments the personal information can be an identifier such as a pin number and or confirmation number associated with the subscriber.

In step the certification center checks the accuracy of the personal information provided by the parent and child. In some embodiments the certification center can run personal information including identification numbers and or other information such as bar codes associated with government issued documents through a computer system private and or public database and or perform a visual inspection on the personal information provided to ensure it is valid authentic and or to confirm the identification of the parent and child. The government issued documents can be in some embodiments a passport birth certificate social security card driver s license and or other documents. In some embodiments the certification server can notarize a form issued by an online communication service such as the interactive application server which confirms the identity of the subscriber including the parent and child upon viewing valid identification.

In step the certification center certifies the parent and child. In some embodiments the subscriber can be certified when personal information such as identity age and or gender can be verified to ensure its accuracy by the certification server . In some embodiments the certification center can assign an identifier that can be unique to a subscriber and or associated with multiple subscribers to the parent and or child when they are certified. In some embodiments the identifier can be associated with an age group gender and or other groups. In other embodiments the certification center can notarize various documents to be presented to an online communication service provider.

In step the parent enters various control limits on subscribers of online communication services that their child can engage in communications with. These control limits can include a minimum age maximum age gender names and other restrictions on subscribers that their child can communicate with. In some embodiments the control limits can include limits on the level of subscriber memberships that their child can communicate with. It can be desirable to have three levels of subscribers bronze silver and gold with bronze being a subscriber who has confirmed the least amount of certification information such as identity date of birth gender height and or weight a current photograph s and or marital status. A silver subscriber can additionally require home ownership confirmation income verification and or a credit report. A gold membership can additionally require the silver and gold information and in addition driving and criminal records substance abuse testing professional license association information and or other information. It should be noted that the level of subscribers are provided as an exemplary embodiment and there can be as few as two or more than three.

Additionally these control limits can include day and or time limits when a child can engage in communications while using an online communication service. In exemplary embodiments when a subscriber s personal information the day and or the time does not satisfy the parental control limits in place communications using the online communication service are not permitted. Alternatively if the control limits are satisfied communications using the online communication service are permitted. In some embodiments the parental control module parental monitor module authentication module control limits module personal information database and or control limits database can be configured to execute these steps.

Advantageously the form page can allow the parent of a child subscribing to the online communication service to enter a minimum age and or maximum age of other subscribers of the online communication service that their child can engage in communications with. In some embodiments the parent can also limit the gender of other subscribers that their child can communicate with while using the online communication service. The form page can also allow a parent to place control limits on the level of subscriber memberships of the online communication service that their child can contact. It can be desirable to have three levels of subscribers bronze silver and gold with bronze being a subscriber who has confirmed the least amount of certification information such as identity date of birth gender height and or weight a current photograph s and or marital status. A silver subscriber can additionally require home ownership confirmation income verification and or a credit report. A gold membership can additionally require the silver and gold information and in addition driving and criminal records substance abuse testing professional license association information and or other information. It should be noted that the level of subscribers are provided as an exemplary embodiment and there can be as few as two or more than three.

The form page can also include times and or days when their child can be blocked from engaging in communications while using the online communication service provider.

In some embodiments the form page can allow a parent to log communications made by their child while using the online communication service. The parental control module can be configured to handle online communication logging. In some embodiments the logged communications can be stored on the computing system the interactive application server various databases including the interactive application communication log database and or the certification server . Advantageously the parent can also configure the number of days to store the communication logs . In some embodiments the parental control module communication logging module parental monitor module and interactive application communication log database can be configured to implement a process that generates the form page and or responds to the form page by using a programming language such as PHP when the form is saved and or cancelled .

In step the subscriber provides personal information to a certification center. In some embodiments the subscriber can provide personal information to a certification center by using a computing system . In some embodiments the certification server can be configured as a certification center. In some embodiments the personal information can be sent over a network to the certification center and or to an interactive application server .

The personal information can include a subscriber s name social security number driver s license number passport number various government identification address date of birth gender telephone number photograph mother s maiden name and or other identity verification information. In some embodiments the personal information can be an identifier such as a pin number and or confirmation number associated with the subscriber.

In step the certification center checks the accuracy of the personal information provided by the subscriber. In some embodiments the certification center can run identification numbers and or other information such as bar codes associated with government issued documents through a computer system private and or public database and or perform a visual inspection on the personal information provided to ensure that the personal information is valid authentic and or to confirm the identification of the parent and child. The government issued documents can be in some embodiments a passport birth certificate social security card driver s license and or other documents. In some embodiments the certification server can notarize a form issued by an online communication service such as the interactive application server which confirms the identity of the subscriber.

In step the certification center certifies the subscriber. In some embodiments the subscriber can be certified when personal information such as identity age and or gender can be verified to ensure its accuracy by the certification server . In some embodiments the certification center can assign an identifier that can be unique to a subscriber and or associated with multiple subscribers when they are certified. In some embodiments the identifier can be associated with an age group gender and or other groups. In other embodiments the certification center can notarize various documents to be presented to an online communication service provider.

In step a child and or subscriber attempt to communicate with each other while using the online communication service. In some embodiments this communication can be sent from a subscriber s computing system over the network and to the child s computing system while using the interactive application module .

In step the online communication service communicates with the certification center. In some embodiments the interactive application server can be configured as an online communication service and the certification server can be configured as a certification center. The online communication service and the certification center can communicate over a network using sockets and or various networking protocols.

In step the certification center finds the parental control limits for the child. The authentication module and or the personal information database can be configured to perform this process. In step a check is performed to determine whether the subscriber satisfies the parental control limits for the child. In some embodiments the certification center online communication service and or the computing system of the subscriber and or child can be configured to perform this check. In an exemplary embodiment the authentication module can also be configured to access the control limits database to perform this step.

In step online communication is enabled between the subscriber and the child when the subscriber satisfies the parental control limits. The interactive application server the computing system of the subscriber and or the child and various modules can be configured to perform this step. In step online communication is disabled between the subscriber and the child when the subscriber does not satisfy the parental control limits. The interactive application server the computing system of the subscriber and or the child and various modules can be configured to perform this step.

Advantageously the form page can allow the parent of a child subscribing to the online communication service to track the time and or date of communications made by their child while using the online communication service. In some embodiments the parent can also determine the length of communications their child had with another subscriber. In some embodiments the parent can determine who their child has communicated with while using the online communication service which can be the name of the subscriber subscriber identification and or other identification. The form page can also allow a parent to determine the status of logged communications so they can be notified of potential problems in the logged communications. In some embodiments the logged communications including text voice video images documents and or other communications can be searched for profanity sexual content and using other criteria to determine whether they are suspicious. The form page can also allow the parent to save print save e mail view and delete the various logged communications of their child.

All of the methods and processes described above can be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. The code modules can be stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all of the methods can alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware.

Although this invention has been described in terms of certain embodiments and applications other embodiments and applications that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art including embodiments which do not provide all of the features and advantages set forth herein are also within the scope of this invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is intended to be defined only by reference to the following claims.

