---

title: Inbound receiving system
abstract: Systems and methods of the present invention for receiving inbound shipments are provided. Bar code information may be decoded, and various types of information can be identified from the decoded bar code information. Such information may include, for example, recipient name, recipient address, a sender account number with the shipping vendor, etc. A database is searched based on such identified information. The database may further include other information associated with the identified information. A report including such information may be generated concerning the shipment. Such report may be stored and retrieved for reference when a future shipment with similar information is received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07938325&OS=07938325&RS=07938325
owner: Lynch Marks LLC
number: 07938325
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081029
---
The present application is a continuation in part and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 009 126 filed Jan. 15 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 122 658 filed May 16 2008 both of which claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 928 516 filed May 16 2007 the disclosures of such aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 009 014 filed Jan. 15 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 009 033 filed Jan. 15 2008.

The present invention relates to shipment management. More specifically the present invention relates to using inbound receiving system.

There are presently a variety of ways to ship an item. The shipping vendors available to a user may include various well known national and international vendors such as FedEx United Parcel Service UPS United States Postal Service USPS and DHL as well as various local couriers. The availability of shipping services by shipping vendors may vary from location to location. For example a local courier may only provide service within a particular city.

A shipment may also be sent using a variety of shipping options including date and time restrictions packaging options recipient acknowledgement and the like. For example a package may need to be delivered in a padded envelope by a certain date and acknowledged by recipient signature. The availability of various shipping options may also differ from vendor to vendor. For example a particular vendor may not offer overnight shipping some vendors require overnight shipments to be ready for pick up by a certain time some vendors may have size and weight restrictions on overnight shipments etc. In addition to size and weight restrictions various other package specifications e.g. shape contents of package value of contents may also limit the availability of shipping options.

A shipment is typically associated with a variety of information from a variety of sources. Such information may include shipping label information invoice information etc. associated with multiple shipping vendors or intra office shipments. Presently accounting processes such as record keeping and account reconciliation may often require a user to record information concerning each shipment by each shipping vendor receive an invoice from each shipping vendor review each invoice compare each invoice entry against shipment records and find matches. A user may further be asked to allocate shipping costs from multiple shipping vendors to the appropriate accounts departments clients etc. In addition a user may need to input shipping label and or invoice information into a cost recovery or other accounting system. Managing information in such a manner may be inefficient time consuming and prone to error.

Processing inbound shipments may also be time consuming and unduly repetitive because much of the shipping information may need to be gathered and or entered manually into data records. For example an incoming shipment may need to be processed individually which may require reviewing the recipient information determining whether such recipient information is current and or valid identifying a location of the recipient in the building complex suite or the like and maintaining and updating sender information into data records. Some situations may further require recording information about the sender of the package to allow for correlation among for example information from previous shipments information regarding current shipments and data that may be available from advance data feeds from the shipping vendors.

There is therefore a need in the art for improved systems and methods for receiving inbound shipments.

Exemplary systems and methods of the present invention provide for receiving inbound shipments. Bar code information may be decoded and various types of information can be identified from the decoded bar code information. Such information may include for example recipient name recipient address a sender account number with the shipping vendor etc. A database is searched based on such identified information. If found in the database a report may be generated concerning the shipment. Such report may be stored and retrieved for reference when a future shipment with similar information is received. Some embodiments of the present invention further provide for the ability to correlate tracking numbers with for example advanced data feeds from the internet publicly available data i.e. Internet searches for tracking numbers and data generated from the outbound shipping process e.g. from the label server described in related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 122 658 and purchase order systems. Further embodiments of the present invention further allow for users from separate organizations to automatically receive and correlate such information.

Various other embodiments of the present invention include methods for receiving inbound shipments. Such methods may include decoding bar code information associated with an inbound shipment identifying information concerning a recipient of the shipment from the decoded bar code information searching a database for information associated with the identified recipient information and generating a report concerning the identified recipient information and the associated information found in the database. Further embodiments may include associating the sender account number with sender information such that future shipments associated with the sender account number may also be automatically associated with the sender information and or recipient information.

Some embodiments of the present invention include systems for receiving inbound shipments. Such systems may include a memory for storing various types of shipping information an interface for displaying reports regarding such shipping information and a processor for decoding bar code information identifying shipping information determine whether such shipping information is present in memory and generating a report based on such shipping information.

Embodiments of the present invention also include computer readable storage media having embodied thereon programs executable by a processor to perform methods for receiving inbound shipments.

The present invention includes systems and methods for receiving inbound shipments. Bar code information may be received and decoded. The decoded bar code information may include shipping information such as recipient information sender information order numbers parcel value shipping vendor information etc. A database is searched for the shipping information identified from the decoded bar code information. Reports may be generated based on the shipping information as well as any associated information found in the database.

User network may be a local proprietary network e.g. intranet a part of a larger wide area network and or a hosted network. For example user network may be a local area network LAN in an office. Alternatively a user network for a large organization may span multiple offices in multiple buildings in multiple locations.

User network may include one or more user devices e.g. user devices A and B . Such user devices may include various computing devices workstations etc. that allow users to communicate with various other components of system . For example using user device A a user may designate specifications for shipping labels view label information view invoice information view reports request reports based on various user specifications etc. Each user device e.g. user device A may include a contacts manager e.g. contacts manager A configured to store information regarding various contacts including addresses telephone numbers e mail addresses and the like. Contacts manager A may further correlate contact information with various shipping specifications e.g. a particular address such as a contact s office may be associated with a particular courier service or particular delivery hours . Examples of contacts managers may include Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes etc.

Accounting system may be any system that an enterprise uses to manage various financial transactions. For example accounting system may be used to handle accounts receivable accounts payable invoice processing cost allocation cost recovery billing etc. To perform such transactions accounting system may require various types of input from one or more sources for example some information may be entered or selected by a user from a shipping vendor s invoice from internally generated intra office transactions from cost information entered manually e.g. United States Postal Service rates etc.

A shipping information application may also be installed in user network or in the application service provider ASP model by application service provider device . Described in further detail with respect to shipping information application allows for user devices in user network to transfer shipping information. For example shipping information may be transferred as part of various shipping related transactions and communications with various shipping vendors. Shipping information application may be any collection of routines that perform various system level functions and may be dynamically loaded and unloaded by hardware and device drivers as required. The modular software components described herein may also be incorporated as part of a larger software platform or integrated as part of an application specific component. In various embodiments shipping information application may be installed on a server in user network on one or more user devices in user network on an application service provider or in any other appropriate fashion.

Shipping application may further allow for communications and transactions that are specific to each shipping vendor. The shipping vendors A C may include for example FedEx United Parcel Service UPS and or DHL as well as various local couriers international and intra office transactions.

Input output is configured to allow for communication between shipping application and various other elements of user network . Input output may be configured to communicate using a network port a wireless connector an Ethernet or TCP IP standard etc. Information communicated through input output may include for example various shipping specifications for shipping labels invoice information from various shipping vendors etc.

Label generation module generates labels for shipment. Information in the labels may be provided by a user a contacts manager or contacts database on a user device shipping vendors A C etc. For example a user may enter recipient information using user device A or the user may designate a contact and a contact address listed in a contacts database e.g. Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes etc. as the recipient of a shipment. Label generation module then generates shipping labels for the designated contact. Various types of label information may be gathered during label generation including user information recipient information tracking numbers billing information client number department codes etc. In some embodiments label information may further include various shipping specifications pricing information etc.

Integrated database is configured to store various types of shipping related information. The information stored in integrated database may include various types of shipping information. Such shipping information may include label information invoice information billing information user information incoming shipment information etc. concerning multiple shipping vendors and or various international office shipments. Storing the various types of shipping information from the multiple shipping vendors and international services in integrated database allows for efficient retrieval and analysis of such information. For example a user may use multiple shipping vendors in carrying out business for a particular account.

In some embodiments information stored in integrated database may be transmitted to an accounting system e.g. accounting system of user network to be used in cost allocation cost recovery billing etc. Alternatively integrated database may provide information for one or more feeds exports or reports e.g. generated by report generator described below for the accounting system e.g. accounting system . Integrated database may also receive information via such feeds. In some embodiments integrated database may also serve as a contacts database or be linked to a contacts database associated with an individual or organization.

Communications interface allows for communication with various shipping vendors. In some cases receiving incoming package information from a particular vendor may involve using a particular interface specific to that vendor and communications interface may include various vendor specific application programming interfaces APIs . For example receiving an invoice from FedEx may involve using an API specific to FedEx receiving an invoice from UPS may involve using an API specific to UPS and so forth. In some embodiments communications interface may be used to receive data feeds including feeds with electronic data interchange EDI extensible markup language XML files or the like associated with incoming package information from a particular shipping vendor. Such files conform to a set of standards for electronic transmission between businesses. Such EDI files may be received from a shipping vendor and stored in integrated database . In some embodiments data feeds from shipping vendors may be encrypted. For example a data feed concerning a particular shipment may be encrypted using a tracking number of the shipment as a key.

Invoice processing module is configured to receive and process invoice information from shipping invoices associated with multiple shipping vendors. In some embodiments invoice processing module receives EDI files from various shipping vendors and extracts various invoice information from the EDI files. Invoice processing module may also provide the invoice information to integrated database for storage and may also provide advance data regarding incoming packages.

Report generation module provides one or more reports concerning shipping information. Reports may further be based on various report specifications. The shipping information is provided by integrated database and report specifications may be provided by a user a system administrator etc. For example a user may request a report concerning various inbound shipments such as internal delivery locations recipients delivery time etc. In some embodiments the reports generated by report generation module may simply be displayed via an interface not shown to a user. Such reports may further be provided in such a way as to allow the user to add information remove information or otherwise edit information in the reports.

Receiving module processes information concerning received inbound shipments. One source of such information is a reading or scan of a bar code associated with a received inbound shipment. Two dimensional bar codes in particular may encode a lot of information which may include for example recipient name recipient address sender account number and the like. Such information may be encoded differently based on the person or entity doing the encoding. For example a particular shipping vendor may follow a certain set of standards for encoding information in a bar code.

Upon receiving shipping information such as that encoded in a bar code receiving module may further identify what information is included in the encoded information. Receiving module may then request or initiate a search of database for the identified information. The results of such a search may then be provided to report generation module for inclusion in various reports. In some embodiments the generated report may include a display of the identified information along with any associated information. For example the receiving module may identify a recipient name from the decode bar code information. Receiving module may then request a search of database based on the recipient name. The database may then provide a recipient address e mail address phone number information regarding previous shipments to the recipient etc. Receiving module may then provide such information provided by the database to report generation module . The recipient information may be displayed along with other information associated with such recipient information in the database . The display may be based on report specifications as indicated by a user system administrator etc.

In some instances a sender account number e.g. associated with a shipping vendor may be identified from the decoded information and a search of database for such sender account number may be conducted. If the sender account number is not found receiving module may request that a user to input sender information associated with the sender account number. Such sender information may be provided to database for storage and retrieval based on searches concerning future inbound shipments.

Other embodiments may include scanning the tracking number on the package received and then searching the database to see if the tracking number correlates to advance data about incoming shipments e.g. from data feeds sent by a shipping vendor regarding an intra inter office shipment generated via a PSIShip system or some other transaction generated internally such as a purchase order number . If the database search finds a match then the internal delivery data including recipient sender etc. may be automatically transferred to the database and a report e.g. label can be printed.

Various embodiments of the present invention provide for receiving module to process the same shipment multiple times. For example a shipment containing a set of documents may be circulated throughout an organization. Receiving module provides for receiving and tracking information regarding the circulating shipment. In some embodiments receiving module may further be configured to receive encrypted data feeds from various shipping vendors concerning shipments. A data feed concerning a particular shipment may be encrypted for example using the tracking number as a key for encryption decryption.

In step bar code information is decoded. Such bar code information may be received from a scanner or reader. The keys for coding and decoding may be specific to a shipping vendor. Notwithstanding the source such keys allow for information to be decoded from a reading or scan of a one dimensional or two dimensional bar code. Some embodiments may further include using radio frequency identification RFID for encoding decoding information.

In step shipping information may be identified from the decoded bar code information. As discussed above various types of shipping information may be included in the decoded bar code information. Recipient name and address for example may be identified.

In step a database e.g. database is searched for the identified shipping information. For example the identified shipping information may be a recipient name. Database can be searched to see whether the recipient name is present. In some embodiments some data in database may be provided by data feeds from shipping vendors senders using a similar system inter intra office shipping processes and the like. For example a recipient organization may receive an advance data feed from a shipping vendor concerning multiple packages being sent to the recipient organization. Such data feeds may be encoded for example using a tracking number. The recipient organization being in possession of the tracking numbers for expected packages may decode such data feed and correlate to information from the received package.

In step the identified shipping information has been found in the database e.g. database and it is determined whether there is any associated information. For example if the recipient name is found in the database it is determined whether other recipient information e.g. recipient address recipient phone number recipient shipping history is also present in the database. If the recipient or any of the recipient information such as phone number delivery location etc. is not found in the database such information may be entered and automatically retrieved the next time the recipient receives a package.

In step the identified shipping information is not found in the database and is requested. For example the identified shipping information may be a sender account number for a shipping vendor. If the shipment is the first one from a particular sender the sender account number may not be found in database . Other shipping information regarding the sender may be missing from database as well. Such shipping information may be requested from a user. A request for more information may appear as a notification via email pop up window icon or the like. Alternatively there may be simply an indication that information is missing and the user may input the information if he she desires.

In step further shipping information is received via user input. Using the example discussed with respect to step the user may input the missing sender information. In some embodiments the user may simply enter the missing information into a provided form may upload the missing information or the like. Some embodiments allow for the user to upload photos of the shipment as it appeared when it was received. Such information may be provided to memory e.g. database for storage.

In step a report is generated based on the shipping information associated with the received shipment. In some embodiments the report may simply be a display including the decoded bar code information along with any information found to be associated. Reports may be customized by a user for example to include specified fields of information for various purposes. Some reports may be used as input in accounting systems e.g. accounting system . For example some users may bill clients for shipments sent on the clients behalf. A user may generate a report concerning shipments associated with a particular client and the report may be used as input in calculating a bill for that client. Further some reports may be used to track the shipment as it circulates to multiple recipients.

In step the information in the report may be stored and retrieved for a next received shipment. For example a next shipment may be received that is associated with the same sender account number. Information concerning the sender may not be included in the decoded bar code information associated with that next shipment. Because such information has been previously requested and entered in steps and however such information will automatically be found and reported.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the invention. The terms computer readable medium and computer readable media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

While the present invention has been described in connection with a series of preferred embodiment these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. It will be further understood that the methods of the invention are not necessarily limited to the discrete steps or the order of the steps described. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

