---

title: Phrase builder
abstract: Real-time query expansion (RTQE) is a process of supplementing an original query with additional terms or expansion choices that are ranked according to some figure of merit and presented while users are still formulating their queries. Individual terms may be combined and submitted as a phrase into a query. By building the phase term-by-term, users can compositionally formulate queries while maintaining the same benefits that other RTQE interfaces offer. The benefits include, reducing the number of keystrokes and improving retrieval performance. To promote greater flexibility in its working environment, the number of terms that are presented on a display may be reduced. In place of some terms, placeholders may be used and expanded by the user when necessary. This allows phrases to be readily presented on small displays (e.g., hand-held devices).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356041&OS=08356041&RS=08356041
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08356041
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080617
---
Today many computer related applications help to facilitate quicker and more accurate text entry. For example computers often have an auto complete application that allows the computer to store terms that have been frequently typed such as a website address and fill in the missing terms whenever the user begins to reenter the terms at a later date.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein one or more techniques are disclosed that enhance a user s ability to arrive at a desired phrase by auto completing or suggesting terms that may be desired in a search. In one example a real time query expansion RTQE interface on a hand held device can be enhanced while lessening memory space requirements and increasing the usability and effectiveness of text entry for hand held devices such as cellular telephones for example. An RTQE generally comprises one or more databases of terms or expansion choices that are associated in some manner such that when a user enters a first term or part of a first term a second term or part of the first term is automatically produced.

As provided herein a user is presented with a first list of predetermined terms in response to user input. The user may focus on a term from the first list and upon focusing on a first term the user may be presented with a second list of terms where the second list of terms is a function of the term focused on in the first list. Lists of terms can be presented in a compact manner by representing one or more terms e.g. that have a lower figure of merit as a generic placeholder. Terms represented by a placeholder can be viewed by selecting the corresponding placeholder to zoom in on this collapsed segment of the list.

In one example a user may begin to spell out a desired term e.g. in a character entry field and a first list e.g. currently focused list of predetermined terms may be presented that comprises often chosen terms beginning with those characters already entered. Additionally where fewer than all of the terms in the first list are presented to a user e.g. due to the compactness of a display the terms that are presented may be those that have a higher figure of merit e.g. according to some context of interest . Moreover the contents of the first list that are displayed to a user may vary depending upon additional user input. For example the contents of the first list that are displayed may be adjusted as a user spells out more of a desired term.

Once a user focuses on a term in the first list a second list e.g. subsequent list may be presented. The second list for example may comprise terms that would commonly follow the term focused on in the first list. Additionally where fewer than all of the terms in the second list are presented to the user e.g. due to the compactness of a display the terms that are presented may be those that have a higher figure of merit e.g. as relates back to the term focused on in the first list . A user may then select a first term e.g. by clicking a select button and focus on a term in the second list. After a user selects a term in the first list and focuses on a term in the second list a third list might be presented etc. The user may continue to scroll through the lists in this manner until a desired phrase is selected. Once terms constructing a desired phrase are selected the user may accept the phrase e.g. by clicking an accept button and the phrase will be presented in a character entry field. The user can also generate a new phrase for example by jumping back to a previous list unselecting a term and selecting a different term.

This process allows the user greater flexibility in choosing phrases by letting the user select terms commonly associated with prior selected terms rather than making the user select an entire phrase as traditional RTQE interfaces require. It significantly expedites the process of creating a phrase by reducing the number of keystrokes adding great convenience to a user particularly on a handheld device since such devices typically have relatively small keys or other input mechanisms. Additionally if a query is to be run using the accepted phrase it increases the accuracy of the search by helping users select relevant terms that may aid in a search engine s retrieval process.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Turning initially to an exemplary methodology is illustrated for building phrases using real time query expansion RTQE by separately selecting terms linked with one another according to some criteria. In one example the technique disclosed herein may be integrated into a standard auto complete function and the phrases can be so constructed and used for entering a query into a handheld device such as a cellular telephone for example. At user input is received e.g. from a Qwerty keyboard a numeric keyboard etc. . A user may begin to spell out part of the desired term by entering text into a character entry field for example. A character may include but is not limited to a letter number or symbol for example. Further it will be appreciated that receiving user input can include a variety of actions including for example navigation into a drop down menu and or control to access previous queries and or popular query logs for example. In one example a user may select a first term using a standard auto complete function and navigate to the right once the first term is selected to invoke the technique disclosed herein.

At a first list e.g. currently focused list of predetermined terms is presented in a first manner based on the user input received. The terms may be presented according to some figure of merit. For example where the size of a display upon which the list is going to be presented to a user is too small to accommodate all of the terms in the list merely the ten or so terms in the list having higher figures of merit may be presented on the display e.g. with undisplayed terms represented as a generic placeholder . Additionally the term in the list having the highest figure of merit may be represented in a specific location on the list e.g. the top of the list . One example of a figure of merit may comprise a consideration of the popularity of one or more terms e.g. relative to some context of interest . A term might include but is not limited to a word number or symbol for example but generally does not include a complete phrase. A term in the first list may be focused on by user input. To focus on a term in the first list the user may scroll to a term in the list and or input e.g. into a character entry field a larger part of a desired term until the desired term is displayed which can then be focused on by the user. Once the desired term is focused on the user may select the term e.g. by clicking a right arrow button .

At a second list e.g. a subsequent list may be presented as a function of the focused on term in the first list. That is if a user focuses on a different term in the first list the terms displayed in the second list will be adjusted as different terms in the first list are focused on e.g. highlighted . As an example the second list of terms might be generated based on the most common term that would be typed after the term focused on in the first list to complete a phrase e.g. those terms would have a higher figure of merit based upon the term focused on in the first list . In one example fewer than all of the terms in the second list may be presented at once e.g. due to the compactness of a display and a placeholder may be used to represent undisplayed terms. In this situation the terms in the second list that are displayed may have a higher figure of merit e.g. as relates back to the term focused on in the first list . Once a term in the first list is selected the user may focus on a term in the second list and select it.

Once a term in the first list and a term in the second list have been selected the terms are linked to form a phrase at and accepted e.g. by the user . It will be appreciated that even though multiple terms are illustrated herein that a phrase may merely comprise a single term from a first single column . The user may accept the phrase causing it to be presented in a character entry field. An example of where the phrase may be used is on an Internet search engine. The process can be repeated for additional lists e.g. additional subsequent lists the contents of which are a function of the term s selected in the prior list s and terms can be focused on in these lists to expand the phrase for example. Alternatively where additional lists are presented a user can halt the process by accepting the phrase as constructed e.g. presenting the phrase in a character entry field where a query is conducted based upon the currently established or constructed phrase .

By way of example demonstrate at least some of the advantages of building a phrase term by term e.g. as provided in . illustrates a display comprising a character entry field and a field for displaying a list s of predetermined terms . It will be appreciated that the field for displaying the list s of predetermined terms is empty because the device disclosed herein has not received any input from the user e.g the character entry field is blank . It will be appreciated that even though an empty list is illustrated a first list comprising terms that have a higher figure of merit can be presented by default.

As illustrates a second list of predetermined terms may be presented in a first manner where a term from the first list is focused on e.g. by the user . In the illustrated example the term focused on is in a box. It will be appreciated however that focused term can be presented in other distinguishing manners such as underlined different colors encircled etc. The terms presented in the second list are a function of the focused term in the first list and may be displayed for example according to some figure of merit e.g. a term with the highest figure of merit is displayed at the top of the second list a term with the second highest figure of merit is displayed second in the second list etc. relative to the focused term in the first list . The user may augment the terms displayed in the second list e.g. by focusing on a different first term in the first list . For example the terms displayed in the second list may be augmented because the terms previously displayed in the second list no longer have a higher figure of merit when a different term in the first list is focused on for example. It will be also be appreciated that the terms in the different lists e.g. first second third etc. and or currently focused subsequent etc. may be altered based upon the available real estate on a display. For example terms can be respectively added to or deleted from a list when a larger or smaller display screen is used. Similarly more terms of a list may be presented on a device having a larger display screen while fewer terms of the same list may be presented on a different device having a smaller display screen.

As illustrated in a user may focus on a term from the second list once a term from the first list is selected e.g. by clicking a right arrow button when a term from the first list that is desired is focused on . It will be appreciated that other terms that are not selected in the first list can be deemphasized e.g. grayed out . A third list of predetermined terms may be presented in a first manner where a term is focused on from the second list e.g. service and a term is selected e.g. customer from the first list . The terms presented in the third list comprise terms having a higher figure of merit for example based upon the selected term in the first list and the focused term in the second list . Additionally as in the first list and second list where fewer than all of the terms in the third list are displayed those terms that are presented in the first manner may have a higher figure of merit for example. In one example the user may alter the selected term in the first list after a term from the second list has been selected. The user may select a different first term for example by returning to the first list and unselecting the selected term e.g. causing the second list to be augmented if a different first term is focused on and the third list to not be presented . Additional lists of predetermined terms can be displayed in a similar manner based upon selected and or focused terms in previous lists.

As illustrates in some instances one or more of the terms in a list may not be displayed e.g. when there are limitations on the size of the display . For example where the size of a display upon which the list is going to be presented to a user is too small to accommodate all of the terms in the list merely the ten or so terms in the list having higher figures of merit may be displayed. Where terms are unable to be displayed the list may be presented in a first manner and a generic placeholder may be used as a substitute for the undisplayed term s . The terms presented in the first manner may have a higher figure of merit e.g. their relative popularity relative to other terms on the list for example and a placeholder is used to represent terms with a lower figure of merit. In the illustrated example an arrow is presented below the last term displayed to indicate that there are other relevant terms that are unable to be displayed e.g. because of the size of the display . The placeholder can be presented even if terms presented in the first manner change e.g. different terms are presented with a higher degree of merit relative to those that are not presented because of additional user input .

In the placeholder is focused on by the user. When the user zooms into the placeholder some terms in the list not able to be presented in the first manner are presented in a second manner in . In the illustrated example terms with a lower figure of merit relative to those terms displayed in the first manner but with a higher figure of merit relative to other terms on the list are presented in the second manner . It will be appreciated that when a focused placeholder is unfocused on the list of may be presented in the first manner . In the example illustrated a user may select a back arrow and the terms displayed when the list was presented in the first manner will reappear e.g. returning to the illustration in . It will also be appreciated that a placeholder may be used in the presentation of terms in the second manner where one or more terms in the list are unable to be displayed. If a term is focused on from the presentation of the list in a second manner a second list may be presented.

The first and second term acquisition components obtain a first and second list respectively from the database . The database may contain for example all terms commonly used to generate a query for a search engine. The acquired terms from the first and second term acquisition components and are then forwarded to the first and second storage components respectively. In one example these terms are stored on a handheld device where terms with prefixes less than some threshold e.g. as many characters as memory allows are stored in a hash table and terms with prefixes greater than some threshold are stored in secondary and more memory efficient indexes.

The user input component receives any input the user provides e.g. through a Qwerty keyboard numerical keyboard etc. . In one example the input received from the user is displayed in a character entry field. The first term ranking component ranks the first terms as a function of input received in the user input component according to some figure of merit e.g. popularity of the term relevance of the term etc. . In one example if a user begins to type cus the terms that begin with cus will have a higher figure of merit than terms that being with goo for example. If the user input component receives more input from the user the first term ranking component may adjust a term s figure of merit e.g. to correspond to those newly added characters .

After the first term ranking component ranks the terms in the first list the term filer component determines which terms will be displayed as a function of the size of an associated display . For example on a handheld device the display may be capable of presenting only five terms in the first list prominently. Therefore for example the five terms from the first list with a higher rank would be presented more prominently. A placeholder for example may be used where terms on the list are unable to be presented in a first manner. The display then presents the list. In one example the terms that are presented more prominently by the term filter component are ordered from the highest ranked term to the lowest ranked term relative to other terms on the list. If the desired term is not presented more prominently the user may scroll through the list and or input more characters of the desired term into the user input component .

From the words presented the term selection component focuses on one term from the first list as a function of user input e.g. the user may scroll to a desired term focus on it and select it . As a function of the term focused on from the first list the second term ranking component ranks the terms stored in the second storage component according to some figure of merit. For example if at the term selection component a user focuses on customer from the first list terms that are commonly associated with customer e.g. service support etc. may be ranked higher than if the focused first term was earthquake. In one example a user may focus on a different first term and the second ranking component may lessen or increase a second term s figure of merit e.g. to correspond to the newly focused first term .

After the second term ranking component ranks the terms in the second list the term filer component determines which terms will be displayed as a function of the size of an associated display . The display then presents the second list. In one example the terms that are presented more prominently by the term filter component are ordered from the highest ranked term to the lowest ranked term relative to other terms on the list. After a term in the first list is focused on and selected at the term selection component the user may scroll through the second list until a desired second term is displayed and or unselect the term selected from the first list focus on a different term in the first list and select it. Once the desired term from the second list is presented more prominently the user may focus on and select the desired second term at the term selection component . After the user focuses on a second term a third list e.g. another subsequent list may be presented as a function of the selected first term and the focused second term. Additional list may be presented in this manner as needed to construct the desired phrase.

The phrase generator component links the term selected from the first list and the term selected from the second list to form a phrase that the user may accept. This phrase may then be inserted into a character entry field and used to conduct a query on an Internet search engine for example.

At a second list e.g. a subsequent list of terms may be ranked as a function of the focused term in the first list. The second list may be obtained from terms stored on a hand held device for example and ranked according to some figure of merit related to the term focused on in the first list e.g. commonly used search terms that appear in a phrase after the term focused on from the first list . If a user focuses on a different term in the first list a term s rank in the second list will be adjusted as different terms in the first list are focused on e.g. highlighted . As a function of the size of an associated display a certain number of terms on the second list may be displayed at . In one example fewer than all the terms in the second list may be presented at once e.g. due to the compactness of a display and a placeholder may be used to represent undisplayed terms. At the second list of terms is displayed in a ranked order e.g. the term with the highest figure of merit relative to the term focused on in the first list is displayed at the top of the list the term with the second highest figure of merit is displayed second on the list etc. . A user may scroll to focus on and select a term in the second list.

Once a term in the first list and a term in the second list have been selected a phrase may be generated at and accepted by the user. This phrase may then be entered into the character entry field. The process can be repeated for additional lists e.g. additional subsequent list the contents of which is a function of the term s focused on and selected in the prior list s and terms can be focused on and selected in these lists to expand the phrase for example. Alternatively where additional lists are presented a user can halt the process by accepting the phrase as constructed e.g. presenting the phrase in a character entry field where a query is conducted based upon the currently established or constructed phrase .

By way of example illustrates one device where a phrase generator can be implemented as provided herein. It comprises a hand held device with a numerical keyboard and a display . The output of a phrase generator may appear on the screen as illustrated for example. Implementing a phrase generator as provided herein would be useful because of the difficulties e.g. a limited number of keys multiple terms assigned to a key the size of the keys associated with typing on the relatively small numerical keyboard or other miniature input device e.g. a keyboard or virtual keyboard .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary methods and of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1494 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

