---

title: Remote access to information on a mobile terminal from a web browser extension
abstract: The invention relates to a method and system for managing information stored and/or services configured in a mobile terminal from a remote terminal, wherein the mobile terminal is configured to connect to a mobile communications network and comprises a web server having an API defined for each piece of information and for each service provided by the mobile terminal, and wherein said remote terminal has access to a data network. It comprises: making, from an extension of a web browser of the remote terminal to the mobile terminal, an HTTP request for managing one piece of information stored or a service configured in the mobile terminal, wherein the HTTP request is in accordance with said API defined in the web server of the mobile terminal and comprises an identifier of said information or service which is to be managed; sending an HTTP response from the mobile terminal to the extension in accordance with said API defined in the web server of the mobile and showing in the remote terminal an interface comprised in said extension for managing said information stored or service configured in the mobile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094370&OS=09094370&RS=09094370
owner: VODAFONE ESPANA, S.A.
number: 09094370
owner_city: Alcobendas, Madrid
owner_country: ES
publication_date: 20080507
---
The present invention is applied to the field of mobile telecommunications networks more specifically to the remote access to the information stored in a mobile telephone.

The memory of the mobile telephone and its SIM card currently store personal data of the user and mobile terminal state information. Personal data of the user stored in the memory of the mobile telephone and the SIM card is understood to be contacts notes calendar images sounds videos short messages SMSs multimedia messages MMSs and electronic mail emails . The mobile terminal state information comprises among others the incoming and outgoing call log the battery level of the mobile telephone the coverage level of the mobile terminal and the mobile telephone state normal high silent vibration only . The mobile telephone offers a variety of services such as making calls sending SMSs MMSs and emails incoming call diversion and photographing and recording videos with the camera of the mobile telephone. All this information and services are accessed from the mobile telephone itself.

In addition a mobile terminal is always connected to the circuit domain by means of GSM UMTS networks or the like. This circuit domain allows it to make and receive calls send and receive SMSs and USSD Unstructured Supplementary Service Data messages. The data or packet domain also called the internet is not always accessible in the mobile terminal. The technology for connecting to the packet domain can be of very different types such as GPRS EDGE UMTS WiFi WiMAX among others. The connection to the data or packet domain is carried out by the initiative of the user or mobile terminal due to an external event or when the mobile telephone has WiFi or WiMAX coverage. This implies that direct requests cannot be sent to the mobile terminal from the data or packet domain but rather it is the mobile terminal which makes the requests to the packet domain. Furthermore once the mobile terminal is connected to the packet domain the location of the mobile terminal cannot be known for certain by means of its IP or URL address due to the fact that there is no standardized or commonly accepted system for identifying and consequently locating a mobile telephone in the packet domain.

In addition web servers are known which are programs responsible for accepting HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol requests from clients normally web browsers and providing them with the HTTP responses together with the data contents which are usually web pages. Web servers are normally large computers capable of providing multiple HTTP responses.

Security and authentication SSL Secure Socket Layer applications such as those described in RFC 2617 entitled HTTP Authentication Basic and Digest Access Authentication are also known.

In recent years Representational State Transfer or REST has also been developed which is a software architecture technique for distributed hypermedia systems such as the World Wide Web. The term REST is generally used to describe any simple web interface transmitting specific data on HTTP without an additional messaging layer or session tracking.

The personal data of the user stored in the memory of the mobile telephone and its SIM card and the mobile terminal state information can currently only be accessed added deleted and shown directly from the mobile telephone using the screen of the mobile telephone the keys the scroll wheel pencils or pointers or even voice commands. The same occurs with services offered by a mobile telephone which can only be executed from the mobile telephone itself.

As regards web servers although several mobile telephones have a web server it is rather unusual that a web server of a mobile telephone is capable of providing HTTP responses mainly due to the lack of permanent connection to the data or packet domain and due to the difficulty of identifying and locating the mobile terminal in the packet domain. For example US patent application US2001 0046851 describes a mobile terminal including a web server through which the mobile terminal connects to a remote management terminal. The purpose of the web server in the mobile terminal is to allow the latter to control a device connected thereto.

Several methods and systems for attempting to remotely manage a mobile telephone have been proposed to date. For example European patent application EP1542432 describes a system in which a web server housed in a data network receives HTTP requests from a mobile telephone in order to update data relating to the mobile telephone which are stored in the web server of the data network.

However this process for requesting information from the web server requires the presence and intervention of the user of the mobile telephone and the direct handling thereof.

The object of the present invention is to remotely manage the different functionalities services and stored information of a mobile terminal without needing to physically handle the same.

To that end the present invention provides an architecture which allows obtaining adding and deleting personal data stored in the mobile terminal and its SIM card and mobile terminal state information and executing the mobile terminal services from any device connected to a data or packet network also called Internet. A user thus has an extension of the mobile terminal installed in his or her web browser of a remote terminal. This extension represents the mobile terminal in a web browser of a remote terminal both personal computer and portable terminal or computer . This entity adds the functionality of the mobile terminal to the web browser of this remote terminal which comprises obtaining adding and deleting personal data stored in the mobile terminal and its SIM card and mobile terminal state information and executing the mobile terminal services from any device connected to a data or packet network also called Internet. This extension can be an additional element such as an additional element in the menu of the browser an additional search bar of the browser or an additional button in the tool bar. Through the extension the user sends commands and obtains adds and deletes information and orders executing the services by directly accessing a web server housed in the mobile terminal. A user of a mobile telephone or terminal can thus interact with his or her mobile terminal from a remote terminal with more features for example a larger screen instead of having to do it directly on the small screen and minute keys of the mobile telephones.

Thus one of the aspects of the present invention relates to a method for managing information stored and or services configured in a mobile terminal from a remote terminal in which the mobile terminal is configured to connect to a mobile communications network and comprises a web server having an API defined for each piece of information and service provided by the mobile terminal and in which said remote terminal has access to a data network. The method comprises making from a web browser extension of the remote terminal an HTTP request for managing at least one piece of information stored or one service configured in the mobile terminal. This HTTP request is in accordance with the at least one API defined in the web server of the mobile terminal. The HTTP request further comprises an identifier of that information or service which is to be managed. The method also comprises sending from the mobile terminal to the extension an HTTP response in accordance with the API defined in the web server of the mobile terminal and showing in the remote terminal an interface comprised in said extension for managing the corresponding information stored or corresponding service configured in the mobile terminal.

The HTTP request from the extension to the mobile terminal preferably comprises the steps of making an HTTP request through the data network from the extension to a gateway capable of locating the mobile terminal which is connected to a mobile communications network and sending the HTTP request to an IP connections manager of the mobile terminal.

The HTTP response from the mobile terminal to the extension preferably comprises the steps of sending an HTTP response in accordance with the at least one API defined in the web server of the mobile terminal from an IP connections manager of the mobile terminal to a gateway through the mobile communications network and sending that HTTP response in accordance with said at least one API defined in the web server of the mobile terminal from said gateway to the extension through the data network.

The HTTP request in accordance with the at least one API defined in the web server of the mobile terminal sent to the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal is sent to the web server by means of said HTTP request.

The HTTP request in accordance with said at least one API defined in the web server sent to the web server of the mobile terminal is in turn sent to a manager module which is chosen from a module for managing personal data of the user a module for managing the mobile terminal state information and a module for managing the mobile terminal services.

The method optionally further comprises a notification step for notifying the user whereby the user is offered one of the following options permanently allowing the execution of the API temporarily allowing said execution permanently denying the execution of the API or temporarily denying said execution.

The information to be managed preferably relates to a resource which is chosen from one of the following groups of resources personal data of the user mobile terminal state information and mobile terminal services. With said resource an action is carried out which is chosen from one of the following groups of actions actions relating to managing personal data of the user actions relating to managing the mobile terminal state information and actions relating to managing mobile terminal services.

The identifier of the information or service to be managed comprised in the HTTP request comprises the URL of the information or service to be managed. Said URL preferably comprises the MSISDN of the mobile terminal.

Said information stored in the mobile terminal relates to a piece of information which is preferably chosen from one of the following groups personal data of the user and mobile terminal state information. With said information an action is carried out which is chosen from one of the following groups of actions actions relating to managing personal data of the user and actions relating to managing the mobile terminal state information.

The information stored in a mobile terminal is stored in the memory of the mobile terminal or in the SIM card thereof.

Said service configured in the mobile terminal relates to a service from the group of mobile terminal services. With said service an action is carried out which is chosen from the group of actions relating to managing mobile terminal services.

The HTTP request is made on a data channel which is set up in a signaling channel previously set up between the gateway and the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal.

The HTTP response is carried out on a data channel which is set up in a signaling channel previously set up between the gateway and the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal.

The signaling channel between both elements is preferably a TCP socket. The data channel between both elements is also preferably a TCP socket.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a system comprising at least one mobile terminal configured to be connected to a mobile communications network in which the mobile terminal comprises a web server at least one terminal configured to be connected to a data network in which said terminal comprises a web browser which in turn comprises an extension. The terminal is capable of remotely managing at least one piece of information stored and or one service configured in the mobile terminal by means of accessing an interface comprised in the web browser extension of the terminal.

The system preferably further comprises a gateway capable of setting up a connection between the data network and the mobile communications network.

An Application Programming Interface or API is a source code interface which a computer system or a program library provides and sets forth so that another computer program can execute service requests. It is the set of calls to a computer system or a program library offering access to its services from the processes and represents a method for achieving abstraction in the programming generally although not necessarily between the lower and upper levels or layers of the software.

REST Representational State Transfer API is understood to be an API which is defined based on URLs Uniform Resource Locators and is invoked by means of HTTP without any messaging layer such as SOAP or session tracking with HTTP cookies. The Representational State Transfer REST is a style of software architecture for distributed hypermedia systems such as the World Wide Web.

Furthermore in the context of the present invention the term web browser extension is defined as an additional element in the web browser of a terminal such as an additional element in the menu of the web browser of the terminal or an additional search bar of the web browser of the terminal or an additional button in the tool bar of the web browser of the terminal. Likewise the term telephone entity is defined as a web browser extension representing a mobile terminal in a web browser of a terminal this terminal including the telephone entity being considered as a remote terminal to the mobile terminal represented by the telephone entity . This entity adds the functionality of the mobile terminal to the web browser of this remote terminal which comprises the functionality obtaining adding and deleting personal data stored in the mobile terminal and its SIM card and mobile terminal state information and executing the mobile terminal services.

Throughout this specification the term comprises and its derivatives must not be interpreted in an excluding or limiting sense i.e. it must not be interpreted in the sense of excluding the possibility that the element or concept which it refers to includes additional steps or elements.

As shown in the system comprises a mobile terminal . The mobile terminal which can be a mobile telephone a PDA or the like is any mobile terminal capable of connecting to a wireless or mobile data network . Non limiting examples of wireless or mobile networks are GPRS EDGE UMTS HSDPA HSUPA WiFi WiMAX and Bluetooth.

The mobile terminal comprises personal data of the user state information of the mobile terminal itself and services provided by the mobile terminal . The personal data of the user and the state information of the mobile terminal itself can be stored both in the memory of the mobile terminal itself and in the SIM card thereof. shows the architecture of the mobile terminal in greater detail. As can be seen the mobile terminal also comprises a program or module for managing the personal data of the user which management consists of obtaining adding and deleting this data. It also comprises a program or module for managing the mobile terminal state information which management consists of obtaining this information and deleting some of it such as the incoming calls log and outgoing calls log. It also comprises a program or module for managing the mobile terminal services which is in charge of executing such services. The functionality of these three programs or modules is exposed i.e. it can be accessed for its remote execution through a web server comprised in the mobile terminal . These functionalities are carried out by means of REST APIs. This means that by means of HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol requests to the web server of the mobile terminal the personal data of the user can be obtained added and deleted the telephone state information can be obtained and some of it deleted such as the incoming call log and outgoing call log and the services of the mobile telephone can also be executed. This is explained in detail below.

The web server can further optionally provide authentication confidentiality and integrity in the communications for executing the REST APIs. To that end a conventional authentication and security application such as SSL is enabled.

The web server can further optionally have a notification system for notifying the user of the mobile terminal of the execution of the API. This system notifies the user of the mobile terminal who which user is controlling the remote terminal is to execute which API. The notification is based on displaying a window on the screen of the mobile terminal to the user so that he or she chooses among the following options always allowing a remote user who is accessing the web server of the mobile terminal from a remote terminal to execute a certain REST API allowing the accessing remote user to execute said API only once allowing the accessing remote user to execute said API for a certain amount of time or number of times denying the execution of an API for the accessing remote user only once or always denying said execution for the accessing remote user .

The system preferably uses the identification of the basic HTTP authentication for identifying the remote user who is accessing the REST API in this notification system . The information on the remote users who have permissions to access said API always or only once either for accessing during a certain amount of time or a certain number of times or indefinitely or invariably have permission denied or have it denied only once is stored in the database of the access lists in the mobile terminal .

The mobile terminal also further comprises a lists manager which allows adding deleting or changing the permissions of the database of the access lists.

Finally the mobile terminal comprises an IP connections manager capable of maintaining a data connection open with an external server in the wireless or mobile network called a permanent data connections manager . This permanent connections manager is a gateway allowing the connection between the wireless or mobile data network and the data network and having the capacity to manage permanent data connections. The gateway is detailed below. The open data connection with the gateway allows the mobile terminal to be available and locatable in the mobile network and therefore the REST APIs indicated with reference to the web server of the mobile terminal can be remotely used.

The diagram of shows the personal data of the user which is stored in the mobile terminal and or in its SIM card. Examples of personal data are by way of an illustrative and non limiting example contacts notes calendar images sounds videos short messages SMSs multimedia messages MMSs and emails .

The diagram of shows the mobile terminal state information comprising among others the incoming calls log the outgoing calls log the mobile terminal battery level indicator the mobile terminal coverage level indicator and the mobile terminal state . This information is also stored in the mobile terminal and or in its SIM card. Examples of the mobile terminal state are normal high silent vibration only etc.

As shown in the system also comprises a gateway . As has been stated previously this gateway acts as a permanent data connections manager . The permanent data connections manager maintains a data connection as shown in with one or a plurality of mobile terminals through the mobile network and receives incoming HTTP requests through a data network or internet and resends them to the appropriate mobile terminal .

As can be seen in this permanent data connections manager or gateway comprises an incoming HTTP connections manager for receiving the connections of other elements of the data network a connection maintenance manager with the mobile terminals for maintaining the data connections with the mobile terminals and sending them the incoming HTTP requests received by the incoming HTTP connections manager . Both managers are also in charge of resending the HTTP responses from the web server of the mobile terminals to the initial element which made the HTTP request. The permanent data connections manager further comprises two databases a first database called mobile terminals sessions for saving the information of the mobile terminals having active data connections with the connections manager and a second database called incoming connections sessions storing the information of the active sessions which are pending a response.

Finally also shows a remote terminal . This remote terminal which is also shown in comprises a web browser . This web browser is configured to show Internet web pages. The web browser further comprises a web browser extension called a telephone entity in the web browser adding the functionality of the mobile terminal to the web browser of this remote terminal . This added functionality of the mobile terminal comprises obtaining adding or deleting the personal data of the user stored in the mobile terminal and its SIM card and terminal state information and also remotely executing the services of the mobile terminal . The telephone entity in the web browser can be for example but in a non limiting manner an additional element in the menu of the browser an additional search bar of the browser an additional button in the tool bar. This extension or telephone entity in the web browser is in charge of making the direct HTTP requests to the web server of the mobile terminal through the permanent data connections manager or gateway . This extension can interact with the web pages in which the web browser is browsing and use the information contained in these web pages to add it in the mobile terminal or for remotely executing mobile terminal services. This extension can interact in the opposite manner with the web pages in which the web browser is browsing i.e. obtaining information from the mobile terminal and using it in the web page.

The method provided by the present invention for managing information stored and or services configured in the mobile terminal from a remote terminal is carried out on the architecture shown in and is schematized in .

As shown in a request for executing the REST API of the mobile terminal between the remote terminal and the permanent data connections manager or gateway through the data network is first set up for the purpose of accessing the information and or mobile terminal services from the remote terminal . This request consists of remotely executing the REST API of the mobile terminal in order to access the remote management of the personal data and terminal state information and the remote execution of the terminal services. This access to the remote management and execution is in the form of HTTP requests according to the specific REST API of each resource and service etc and etc .

The user of the remote terminal opens through the web browser the extension or telephone entity . Upon opening this extension the menu of the mobile terminal is displayed. It is not necessary to make any call to the REST APIs of the mobile terminal for this purpose since the menu of the mobile terminal is embedded in the extension .

The user is then identified preferably by means of a user name and a password according to the basic authentication of the web server of the mobile terminal .

The user then chooses the specific information . . . . . . to be remotely managed or the service . . . to be remotely executed by clicking on the menu of the extension .

The extension or telephone entity thus makes HTTP requests in accordance with the specific REST API of the resource . . . . . . or service . . . for remotely managing or executing such information or service.

Once the specific piece of personal data specific information on the specific terminal or service is downloaded in the remote terminal the user can manage the specific personal data . . . of the user the specific terminal state information . . . or remotely execute the specific service . . . by means of accessing an interface comprised in the extension . This interface can be for example a window or a menu of the extension .

Therefore if the user clicks on the action DELETE in the specific personal data AGENDA for example the HTTP request for deleting a certain element from the agenda of the terminal in accordance with the REST API defined by the web server is sent from the extension to the permanent data connections manager or gateway through the data network . To that end the extension shows the state of said action.

Returning to once the permanent data connections manager or gateway receives this HTTP request in accordance with the REST APIs the gateway which has previously set up a permanent connection with the mobile terminal see resends the HTTP request to the mobile terminal through the IP connections manager thereof. After a message exchange which is described in detail in relation to the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal sends an HTTP response to the permanent data connections manager or gateway comprising the required information. If everything has gone correctly this HTTP response comprises an OK with certain information depending on each specific method for example an XML list of the contacts of the mobile terminal and SIM card an image etc. If there has been an error an error response is returned. The connections manager or gateway in turn sends the HTTP response to the extension or telephone entity of the web browser of the remote terminal showing the information relating to the REST APIs in the remote terminal .

Prior to sending the HTTP requests of the IP connections manager initiates a data connection with the permanent data connections manager . This data connection comprises setting up a signaling TCP socket between the mobile terminal and the permanent data connections manager or gateway and a TCP data socket between the mobile terminal and the permanent data connections manager or gateway .

Firstly the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal sets up a signaling TCP socket between the mobile telephone and the permanent data connections manager or gateway and sends a CONNECT message through such signaling TCP socket. This message comprises the mobile terminal number or MSISDN and a timeout. The permanent data connections manager responds with a CONNREGISTERED ok message via the signaling TCP socket and stores this connection information in its mobile terminal sessions database . The IP connections manager of the mobile terminal then sends a WAITING message to the permanent data connections manager via the signaling TCP socket.

If the permanent data connections manager or gateway receives an HTTP request from the web server for the mobile terminal the permanent data connections manager or gateway sends it a REQUESTPENDING message via the signaling TCP socket with a Request Id which is the information necessary in order to set up a data TCP socket for sending this HTTP request. Block of shows said HTTP request. Upon receiving this message the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal and the permanent data connections manager or gateway set up a data TCP socket and the HTTP request is sent. The HTTP response of the mobile terminal is also sent on this data TCP socket . The IP connections manager of the mobile terminal resends the HTTP request to the web server of the mobile terminal so that the latter processes it and returns an HTTP response . The IP connections manager of the mobile terminal resends the HTTP response to the permanent data connections manager or gateway so that the latter resends the HTTP response to the web server . When finished sending the HTTP response the data TCP socket which had been previously created is destroyed.

If in contrast the permanent data connections manager or gateway does not receive an HTTP request intended for the mobile terminal the latter sends a KEEPALIVE message via the signaling TCP socket to the IP connections manager of the mobile terminal when the timeout time interval which had been defined in the initial message has ended. Blocks of show the end of said timeout time intervals. The IP connections manager of the mobile terminal sends another WAITING message via the signaling TCP socket upon receiving this KEEPALIVE message in order to reinitiate the timer to the set time or timeout.

As shown in the permanent data connections manager or gateway receives the incoming HTTP requests by the incoming HTTP connections manager module or program saves the information relating to the session of that HTTP request in the incoming connections session database and resends the HTTP request to the connection maintenance manager module or program with the mobile terminals which first identifies the destination mobile terminal of the HTTP request. To that end the destination URL of the HTTP request contains the mobile terminal number or MSISDN of the destination mobile terminal in order to be able to identify it. Examples of a destination URL can be by way of an illustrative and by no means limiting example http 34610515151.vodafone.com or http www.vodafone.com 34610515151. Once the mobile terminal is identified its location is searched for in the mobile terminal session database and the HTTP request is resent to the appropriate mobile terminal by means of previously explained message exchange.

The method for internally processing the HTTP requests to the REST APIs in the mobile terminal is described below 

The REST APIs are based on unequivocally identifying the actions obtaining adding deleting and executing together with the resources information data or services personal data of the user terminal state information and mobile terminal services with URLs which can be called by means of HTTP requests in the web server of the mobile terminal . For example an image piece of data stored in the mobile terminal can thus be obtained action by making an HTTP request to a URL which unequivocally identifies that image piece of data .

The web server of the mobile terminal receives HTTP requests . At the time in which the web server receives the HTTP request the corresponding REST API is executed i.e. what information is to be accessed and what action is to be made or what is to be carried out is identified. A result in the form of an HTTP response is then returned. In other words if the HTTP request including the destination URL corresponds to the execution of the REST API the HTTP request passes to the appropriate manager module or program depending on the destination URL of the HTTP request . These manager modules or programs are for managing the personal data of the user for managing terminal state information and for managing the mobile terminal services .

The mobile terminal optionally comprises a notifier . In this case the HTTP request is transferred to the notification system of the mobile terminal . Thus if the web server has the authentication confidentiality and integrity options enabled in the communications for executing the REST API by means of a conventional authentication and security application such as an SSL application the notification system identifies which resource will be executed and who i.e. which user controls the remote terminal makes this request. The identity of who is making the HTTP request gives the identity defined in the basic authentication system of the web server preferably the authentication system defined in RFC 2617. Once identified an access list database is consulted in order to check if said user has permissions for executing the resource identified by the URL and HTTP request . If the user is still not registered in the database or does not have permanent permissions or always denied permissions the user is notified of who is to execute which resource in the mobile terminal . This notification is preferably carried out by means of a window which is displayed on the screen of the mobile terminal . The user who is accessing from a remote terminal is not necessarily the same user who is handling the mobile terminal . If the remote user has permanent permissions the corresponding execution is not prevented even though there is no one at the end of the mobile terminal since the notification window does not appear and the system operates without problems. If no one is handling the mobile terminal and the notification window appears which means that the person who is accessing does not have permanent permissions and therefore needs permission the HTTP request is not provided and therefore the REST APIs are not executed.

Thus given a remote user who is making a request relating to a certain piece of information or service R the information or service of the REST API to be executed the notification system provides several options 1 always allowing the user to execute that information or service 2 allowing the user to execute the information or service R only once 3 allowing the user to execute the information or service R during a certain time period 4 not allowing the user to execute the information or service R this specific time and 5 never allowing the user to execute the information or service R. If the user of the mobile terminal gives permission to the user the HTTP request is transferred to the specific manager module or program of the information or service to be executed. If in contrast the notification system sees that the user does not have permission for carrying out that information or service the notifier returns the HTTP request to the web server indicating it to respond to the user with an HTTP error response or denied access response .

As previously stated the information relating to which users have permission to different information or services is stored in the access list database of the mobile terminal . shows the structure of the access lists included in the mobile terminal column includes users column includes information or types of personal data of the user stored in the mobile terminal or its SIM mobile terminal state information or mobile terminal services column includes the type of access i.e. unlimited access temporary access one time access once denied or permanently denied access which each user has to each piece of information or service and column includes the time or number of times allowed for each user and information and service.

As previously mentioned the notification system is optional and executing it requires the basic authentication to be enabled in the web server .

The manager modules or programs for managing personal data of the user for managing the terminal state information and for managing the mobile terminal services receive the request from the web server or optionally if the notifier is enabled from the notifier . These programs or modules identify the specific resource and the action which is to be carried out with it. It thus relates to the program or module for managing personal data of the user the information is that shown in and the action is one of the following obtaining a data list obtaining a piece of data adding a piece of data or deleting a piece of data. If it relates to the program or module for managing the terminal state information the information is that shown in and the action is one of the following obtaining a piece of data for all data of and for the incoming call log and the outgoing call log also deleting a piece of data. If it relates to the program or module for managing the mobile terminal services the services are those shown in and the action is executing the service in the mobile terminal . These programs or modules access their respective personal data resources of the user in the case of the program or module for managing personal data of the user the terminal state information in the case of the program or module for managing the terminal state information and mobile terminal services in the case of the program or module for managing the mobile terminal services . There are many REST APIs defined as information and services defined in the personal data resources of the user the terminal state information and the mobile terminal services . In other words there is a REST API for the contacts another one for the calendar another one for sounds etc. another one for the incoming call log another one for the outgoing call log etc. another one for making calls another one for sending SMSs etc until completing all services and resources. Finally these programs or modules are in charge of creating the response to the initial request of the REST APIs and of providing it with the suitable HTTP response form for passing it to the web server so that the latter returns to it the HTTP response to the initial request which it received from the IP connections manager .

After the message exchange carried out on the connections set up and shown with reference to an information or services management interface of the mobile terminal is displayed in the remote terminal .

The extension shows and allows adding and deleting information relating to the personal data of the user i.e. the contacts notes calendar images sounds videos SMSs MMSs and emails stored in the mobile terminal and its SIM card and contain information relating to the telephone state i.e. the incoming calls log outgoing calls log battery indicator mobile telephone state and coverage indicator. Information relating to the incoming and outgoing calls log can additionally be deleted from the extension . Finally the extension shows and allows executing mobile terminal services from it such as making calls incoming call diversion sending an SMS sending an MMS sending emails taking photographs and recording videos. In summary from the terminal a user can remotely manage the mobile terminal from the extension .

In short the method of interaction of the user in the extension or telephone entity of a web browser of a remote terminal is the following 

The extension or telephone entity in the web browser can be in a non limiting manner an additional element in the menu of the browser an additional search bar of the browser an additional button in the tool bar etc. This entity is that which making the HTTP requests to the appropriate mobile terminal according to that which has been previously explained enables the previously described functionality.

In view of this description and set of drawings a person skilled in the art could understand that the invention has been described according to several preferred embodiments thereof but multiple variations can be introduced in said preferred embodiments without departing from the object of the invention as it has been claimed.

