---

title: Method and system for providing interactive flow chart elements
abstract: Exemplary embodiments include methods and systems for diagnosing and/or analyzing one or more service problems including an acquire module configured to acquire one or more interactive flow chart methods to diagnose one or more service problems, wherein each of the one or more interactive flow chart methods comprises one or more method steps. Also, the system may include an analytical module configured to provide a first method step of the one or more interactive flow chart methods to a user and provide a second method step of the one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on a user feedback to the first method step; and a presentation module configured to display a diagnostic report of the one or more service problems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839115&OS=08839115&RS=08839115
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08839115
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081217
---
As the variety of each service and the number of services that service providers may provide continue to grow diagnosing and analyzing problems associated with these services may become more difficult. Today one or more service providers may provide a household with Internet telephone and or television services. Reducing downtime and or avoiding difficulties associated with one or more of these services are increasingly becoming more important to these service providers. Conventional diagnostic and or analysis of service problems typically may include a field technician being dispatched to the household to manually access each component in order to diagnose and analyze the service problem. Such a process is typically tedious and time consuming. For example using conventional diagnostic tools and techniques may require a technician to swap out one or more components in order to isolate a faulty component. In addition conventional diagnostic tools and techniques may require a manual analysis of the collected information in order to identify one or more service problems and may be error prone due to a lack of a standardized methodology. As a result resolving service problems becomes technician dependent. In some cases the field technicians may rely on manuals having a vast volume of pages which may make the diagnostic and or analysis of a service problem difficult and inefficient. As a result conventional diagnostic and analysis of service problems may be inefficient costly and or time consuming.

These and other embodiments and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the various exemplary embodiments.

A system and method in accordance with exemplary embodiments for providing an interactive flow chart method for diagnosing and or analyzing service problems in a timely and efficient manner. In an exemplary embodiment the system and method may include a plurality of interactive flow chart methods associated with service problems. The interactive flow chart methods may be stored in a database and may be accessed by a plurality of users via a server. For example the system may provide an index e.g. via an interface of the plurality of interactive flow chart methods stored in the database to the plurality of users. Thereafter the users may select an interactive flow chart method based at least in part on the service problems. The system may enable the users to search the database storing the plurality of interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the service problem in order to identify interactive flow chart methods to diagnose and or analyze the service problem. The interactive flow chart methods may include a plurality of method steps in order to allow the user to efficiently diagnose and or analyze the service problem. The plurality of method steps may be displayed to a user via a user interface in response to comments requests received from the user. The plurality of method steps may assist the user to diagnose and or analyze the service problem. The interactive flow chart methods may be modified and or customize based at least in part on one or more service problems. Also a user may modify and or customize the interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on one or more service problems. Moreover a user may create a plurality of interactive flow chart methods associated with one or more service problems. Also the system and method may generate one or more summary reports of diagnostic and or analytical results to inform a user of the service problem.

The description below describes user devices servers computers databases and other computing devices that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly depicted others of which are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to executable software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices. It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

The description below also describes physical and logical elements of a system architecture some of which are explicitly shown in figures others that are not. The inclusion of some physical elements of a system architecture may help illustrate how a given system may be modeled. It should be noted however that all illustrations are purely exemplary and that the system architecture described herein may be performed on different varieties of systems which may include different physical and logical elements.

For example the user may be associated with but is not limited to service providers enterprises educational institutions government agencies and any individual group and or organization running maintaining and or providing one or more services. Users within an organization may include but are not limited to network architects network managers engineers planners Network Operations Center NOC personnel marketing sales engineering operations personnel and customer support organizations. The one or more service problems may include but not limited to problems associated with a service e.g. television services Internet services and or telephone services and or equipment e.g. wiring set up box router modem television and or telephone associated with a service problems associated with network elements and or questions associated with television services features Internet services features telephone services features installation billing and or other problems a service provider and or a customer may experience. For example the customers may experience issues associated with dropped wireless telephone calls missing television channels and or loss of an Internet connection.

The one or more user devices may be a computer e.g. having one or more printing devices a personal computer a laptop a cellular communication device a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance an Internet browser a paging an alert device a television an interactive television a receiver a tuner a high definition HD television a HD receiver a video on demand VOD system and or other any other device that may allow a user to communicate with the diagnostic server via the network .

Diagnostic server may be one or more servers to provide one or more interactive flow chart methods to the user devices . The diagnostic server may include a SQL Server UNIX based servers Windows 2000 Server Microsoft IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java sever Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HTTP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server and or other independent server to provide interactive flow chart methods for diagnosing and or analyzing one or more service problems. Also the diagnostic server may store and or run a variety of software for example Microsoft .NET framework.

The first network and or the second network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network in order to provide communication links between the user devices diagnostic servers and or the database . For example the first network and or the second network may include but not limited to Internet network satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku and or Band Ka wireless LAN Global System for Mobile Communication GSM Personal Communication Service PCS Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data satellite network IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g and or any other wireless network for transmitting a signal. In addition the first network and or the second network may include but not limited to telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN global network such as the Internet. Also the first network and or the second network may enable an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network an Intranet or the like or any combination thereof. The first network and or the second network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other.

The database may be one or more storage devices to store a plurality of interactive flow chart methods . For example the database may include but not limited to hard drives read only memory ROM random access memory RAM paper card storage punched card tape storage paper tape magnetic tape disk storage gramophone record floppy disk hard disk ZIP disk holographic molecular memory. The database may also include optical disc CD ROM CD R CD RW DVD DVD R DVD RW DVD R DVD RW DVD RAM Blu ray Minidisc HVD and Phase change Dual storage device. The database may further include without limitation magnetic bubble memory magnetic drum core memory core rope memory thin film memory twistor memory flash memory memory card semiconductor memory solid state semiconductor memory or any other database.

The interactive flow chart methods may include various types of schematic representation of an algorithm or a stepwise process e.g. boxes of various kinds coupled with arrows associated with one or more service problems. The interactive flow chart methods may include flow charts designing and or documenting a process or program to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems. In an exemplary embodiment the interactive flow chart methods may include one or more method steps e.g. activities denoted as a rectangular box flow charts and or a decision e.g. denoted as a diamond flow charts. For example a method step of the interactive flow chart method may have a relationship with one or more other method steps of the interactive flow chart method . The relationship between the method steps of the interactive flow chart method may be hierarchical dependency parent child and or other relationships in order to establish a connection between the one or more method steps. In an exemplary embodiment a first method step of the interactive flow chart method may be selected by a user and one or more method steps associated with the first method step may be provided to the user based at least in part on the selection of the first method step. The interactive flow chart methods may also include quality control flow charts histogram flow charts Pareto flow chart check sheet flow chart cause and effect flow chart scatter flow chart and or other flow charts in order diagnostic and or analyze one or more service problems.

In an exemplary embodiment the acquire module may acquire one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the database the second network . The acquire module may preprocess the interactive flow chart methods acquired from the database e.g. filter format segregate aggregate etc. The pre processing of the interactive flow chart methods acquired by the acquire module may include filtering the interactive flow chart methods e.g. provide the newest version of the interactive flow chart methods formatting the interactive flow chart methods into useful format e.g. format supported by the user device segregate the interactive flow chart methods into categories based on one or more service problems and or aggregate the interactive flow chart methods e.g. multiple interactive flow chart methods may be used to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems . The one or more interactive flow chart methods may be transferred from the acquire module to a repository module . The repository module may store and or manage the one or more interactive flow chart methods transferred from the acquire module . An analytic module may access the repository module to obtain the one or more interactive flow chart methods needed to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems. In addition the one or more method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods may be automatically and or upon a request by a user e.g. service administrators and or field technicians transferred to a presentation module and present to a user via the user device . The interactive flow chart methods and or one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method may be transferred to the presentation module and presented to a user via the one or more user devices . The user may provide one or more selections and or feedbacks to the presentation module via the one or more user devices .

The acquire module may interact with the one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the database . Through these interactions one or more interactive flow chart methods may be acquired and or stored. For example the acquire module may sequentially and or simultaneously acquire one or more interactive flow chart methods . The acquire module may use one or more methods to acquire the one or more interactive flow chart methods via the second network . For example the acquire module may acquire the one or more interactive flow chart methods via telephone electronic mail Internet telecommunication network TELNET command line interface CLI secure socket header SSH simple network management protocol SNMP File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure Shell SSH and or other methods acquiring one or more interactive flow chart methods from the database . The acquire module may provide the one or more interactive flow chart methods acquired from the database to the repository module . The acquire module may pre process the one or more interactive flow chart methods acquired from the database before transferring the one or more interactive flow chart methods to the repository module . In another exemplary embodiment the acquire module may receive one or more newly created and or modified interactive flow chart methods from the analytical module and or the repository module . The acquire module may transfer the one or more newly created and or modified interactive flow chart methods to the database via the second network .

A user associated with the one or more user devices may interactively diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems via the one or more interactive flow chart methods . The presentation module may provide an interface between the one or more user devices and the diagnostic server . The presentation module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface to receive requests commands from a user e.g. a service administrator and or field technician and to provide interactive flow chart methods and or one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method to the user via the one or more user devices and the first network . For example the presentation module may provide an initial method step of the interactive flow chart method and may provide one or more subsequent method steps of the interactive flow chart method based at least in part on one or more received requests commands from the user. For example the presentation module may receive one or more requests commands from a user via the one or more user devices in order to create and or modify the one or more interactive flow chart methods and or each method step of the one or more interactive flow chart methods .

The presentation module may include an Application Programming Interface API to interact with the one or more user devices via the first network . In response to receiving a request from a user e.g. a service administrator and or field technician via the one or more user devices and or the first network the presentation module may send requests commands or control signals etc. to the acquire module the repository module and or the analytical module . In an exemplary embodiment in response to a request command the analytical module may a retrieve one or more interactive flow chart methods from the repository module and or may cause the acquire module to retrieve the one or more interactive flow chart methods from the database b process the one or more interactive flow chart methods and or c provide the one or more interactive flow chart methods and or one or more method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods to the presentation module . The presentation module may provide the interactive flow chart methods and or the one or more method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods to the user via one or more user devices for display. As a result system may allow the user to efficiently diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems.

The presentation module may include a report generator module not shown for generating reports. For example upon a user s e.g. a service administrator and or field technician request a report may be generated. The report may include date time one or more interactive flow chart methods method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods one or more service problems diagnosed and or analyzed conclusion of the diagnostic and or analysis name of user name of organization duration of the one or more service problems. Also a report may be automatically generated when a user is logged into the system in order to update the user of conclusion of the diagnostic and or analysis results since the last time the user was logged into the system . Further a report may be automatically generated at the conclusion of the diagnostic and or analysis process of one or more service problems. Thus a user may be informed of concerns issues and or repairs that may be needed associated with the one or more service problems and or the interactive flow chart methods used in diagnosing and or analyzing the one or more service problems.

In another exemplary embodiment in response to a request command the analytical module may a identify one or more interactive flow chart methods and or one or more method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the request command b retrieve one or more interactive flow chart methods from the repository module and or may cause the acquire module to retrieve one or more interactive flow chart methods from the database and or c modify the one or more interactive flow chart methods and or the one or more method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the request command. Also in response to a request command the analytical module may a create one or more new interactive flow chart methods having one or more method steps associated with one or more service problems and or b store the one or more new interactive flow chart methods in the repository module and or the database .

The repository module may store and or manage one or more interactive flow chart methods . For example the repository module may store one or more interactive flow chart methods locally and or remotely. Also the repository module may store one or more interactive flow chart methods provided by the acquire module . The repository module may provide an interface e.g. a uniform interface for other modules within the system and may read write and search the one or more interactive flow chart methods in one or more databases. The repository module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. Also the repository module may compress store backup archive transfer and or discard the one or more interactive flow chart methods after a period of time e.g. a month a quarter a year. The repository module may provide the one or more interactive flow chart methods to the analytical module . Also the repository module may include one or more databases to store one or more requests commands from a user. For example the requests commands from the user may include keywords modified method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods one or more newly created interactive flow chart methods sets of rules and or conditions search queries and or other inputs from the user.

The analytical module may retrieve one or more interactive flow chart methods from the repository module and or the acquire module and process the one or more interactive flow chart methods . The analytical module may communicate with the presentation module the acquire module and or the repository module . The analytical module may further include a plurality of sub analytical modules to perform various types of interactive flow chart methods processing. The analytical module may determine a relationship between one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart methods . In an exemplary embodiment the analytical module may determine one or more first method steps of the interactive flow chart methods and may present the first method step to a user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . The user may provide one or more requests commands to the analytical module via the one or more user devices and or the presentation module . The analytical module may determine one or more second method steps associated with the one or more first method steps of the interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more requests commands provided by the user. Thereafter the analytical module may provide the one or more second method steps of the interactive flow chart methods to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . The user may again provide one or more requests commands to the analytical module and the above described process may repeat until the user may determine one or more service problems and or one or more last method steps of the interactive flow chart methods .

In another exemplary embodiment the analytical module may determine a relationship of a plurality of method steps of the interactive flow chart methods . For example a plurality of method steps of the interactive flow chart methods may form one or more strings and or groups of method steps within the interactive flow chart methods . The analytical module may determine a first string and or first group of method steps of the interactive flow chart methods and may present the first string and or the first group of method steps to a user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . The user may provide one or more requests commands to the analytical module via the one or more user devices and or the presentation module . The analytical module may determine one or more second strings and or second groups of method steps associated with the first string and or the first group of method steps based at least in part on the one or more requests commands provided by the user. Thereafter the analytical module may provide the one or more second strings and or the second groups of method steps to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . The user may again provide one or more requests commands to the analytical module and the above described process may repeat until the user may determine one or more service problems and or one or more last strings and or last groups of method steps of the interactive flow chart methods .

The analytical module may modify and or create one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on one or more requests commands from a user. In an exemplary embodiment the analytical module may modify the interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on one or more requests commands from the user. For example analytical module may modify a relationship between the one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart methods . Also the analytical module may modify a relationship between the one or more strings and or groups of method steps of the interactive flow chart methods . In an exemplary embodiment the analytical module may modify an association of the one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method . For example a first method step of the interactive flow chart method may be associated with a second method step of the interactive flow chart method . The user may modify the second method step of the interactive flow chart method to a third method step of the interactive flow chart method . Also the user may modify the second method step of the interactive flow chart method to associate with both the first method step and the third method step of the interactive flow chart method . The analytical module may modify text of the one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart methods . For example the one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method may include text describing one or more service problems. The user may modify the text in the one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method describing the one or more service problems.

Moreover the analytical module may create and or add one or more method steps to the interactive flow chart methods . The analytical module may store the modified interactive flow chart methods locally at the repository module and or at the database via the network . In another exemplary embodiment the analytical module may create one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with one or more service problems based at least in part on one or more requests commands from a user. For example analytical module may create one or more interactive flow chart methods including one or more method steps to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems. A user may encounter one or more service problems that may not be associated with one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the database . The user may create one or more new interactive flow chart methods having one or more method steps in order to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems. The analytical module may store the one or more newly created interactive flow chart methods locally at the repository module and or at the database via the network .

The analytical module may perform various analyses such as but not limited to counting analysis geographical analysis time series analysis forensic analysis and or pattern matching analysis. For example using the one or more user devices a user may select various types of data analyses to be performed. For example a user may select counting analysis where the analytical module may count a number of times an interactive flow chart method may be used to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems. Also a user may select geographical analysis where the analytical module may count a number of times an interactive flow chart method may be used to determine one or more service problems in a geographical region. Further a user may select a time series data analysis where one or more service problems diagnosed and or analyzed by one or more interactive flow chart methods at an earlier time may be compared with the one or more service problems diagnosed and or analyzed by one or more interactive flow chart methods . Moreover a user may select forensic data analysis where a user may select to analyze the one or more interactive flow chart methods used to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems in the past. In addition a user may select pattern matching analysis where one or more interactive flow chart methods may be matched with the one or more service problems. The analytic module may summarize and aggregate one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the repository module and or the database . Moreover the analytical module may summarize and or aggregate one or more modified and or created interactive flow chart methods . In addition analytic module may transmit a report summary message to the presentation module to generate one or more diagnostic and or analytical results from the one or more interactive flow chart methods and present the diagnostic and or analytical results to the user.

The analytical module may provide users an index and or a table of one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the database and or the repository module . For example users may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems by searching the index and or the table of the interactive flow chart methods . In an exemplary embodiment the analytical module may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods in the index and or the table in an alphabetical order a categorical order a sequential order most recently used order and or other orders in order to allow users to efficiently search for the one or more interactive flow chart methods . The index and or the table may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods in an alphabetical order to the user. Also the index and or the table may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on one or more categories of the service problems e.g. television category telephone category or Internet category . The index and or the table may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on a sequence e.g. preliminary interactive flow chart method intermediate interactive flow chart method and final interactive flow chart method . Further the index and or the table may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods from most recently used to least recently used. For example users may search the index and or the table of interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more service problems in order to identify one or more interactive flow chart methods to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems.

Also the analytical module may provide users a search query function in order to identify one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the database and or the repository module . For example the search query function may allow users to input one or more keywords to the analytical module via one or more user devices and or the presentation module . The analytical module may receive one or more keywords from the user and may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more keywords. For example the analytical module may search one or more interactive flow chart methods stored in the database and or the repository module based at least in part on the one or more keywords. The analytical module may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods that may match the one or more keywords and present the one or more interactive flow chart methods to the user. The user may select one or more interactive flow chart methods presented by the analytical module in order to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems.

As illustrated in the analytical module may provide one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . For example the analytical module may provide five method steps of the interactive flow chart methods associated with the how the calls hit the network service problem. As shown in the analytical module may provide the user Opt method step APAC method step Transit Call method step VOIP method step and or Opt method step of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem. The user may select one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hit the network service problem. For example the user may click via a mouse type via a keyboard touch via a touch screen and or other selection methods in order to select one or more desired method steps of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem.

As illustrated in the user may select Opt method step of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hit the network service problem. For example the analytical module may receive the user selection and or provide one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem based at least in part on the user selection. For example the analytical module may provide DAL method step and or Cust ANI method step based at least in part the user selection of the Opt method step of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem. The user may select either the DAL method step and or the Cust ANI method steps of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hit the network service problem.

As illustrated in user may select DAL method step of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem. For example the analytical module may receive the user selection of DAL method step and or provide diagnostic and or analytical results of the one or more service problems. For example the analytical module may provide the diagnostic and or analytical result of the one or more service problems to the user based at least in part on the selection of the DAL method step of the interactive flow chart method associated with the how the calls hits the network service problem. For example the analytical module may provide the diagnostic and or analytical result to the user which may include lookup circuit in FE to determine originating switch and search for customer calls in Zippy. 

At block users may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods in order to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems. For example one or more service problems may arise and user may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods in order to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems. For example the user may input one or more keywords into a diagnostic server via one or more user devices in order to search for one or more interactive flow chart methods . Analytical module of the diagnostic server may search a database storing one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more keywords inputted by the user. The analytical module may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more keywords and present the one or more identified interactive flow chart methods to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . Also the user may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems by searching an index and or a table of interactive flow chart methods . In an exemplary embodiment the analytical module may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods in the index and or the table in an alphabetical order a categorical order a sequential order most recently used order and or other orders. The user may search the index and or the table of interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more issues in order to identify one or more interactive flow chart methods to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems. After identifying one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems the method may proceed to block .

At block one or more interactive flow chart methods may be acquired. For example the user may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods in order to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems. The user may input one or more identified interactive flow chart methods to the diagnostic server via the one or more user devices . The acquire module of the diagnostic server may acquire one or more interactive flow chart methods from the database via the second network . The acquire module may pre process the one or more acquired interactive flow chart methods . For example the acquire module may pre process the one or more acquired interactive flow chart methods by filtering formatting segregating aggregating and or other processing methods. The acquire module may provide the one or more acquired interactive flow chart methods to a repository module and or the analytical module . In another exemplary embodiment one or more identified interactive flow chart methods for diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems may be acquired from a repository module . For example the repository module may store one or more identified interactive flow chart methods and may provide the one or more identified interactive flow chart methods to the analytical module . After acquiring one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with one or more service problems the method may proceed to block .

At block first method step of one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems may be presented to the user. For example the analytical module may provide the one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . The one or more method steps may be presented to the user either as a single method step or as a group of method steps. For example the analytical module may determine one or more first method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods . The analytical module may provide the one or more first method steps of the interactive flow chart methods to the user via a presentation module and a user device . After presenting one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems the method may proceed to block .

At block feedback from the user based at least in part on the one or more presented interactive flow chart methods may be received. For example the user may provide feedbacks e.g. one or more requests commands to the analytical module via the one or more user devices and or the presentation module . The user may select e.g. click on and or scroll to one or more method steps of the interactive flow chart method based at least in part on the one or more service problems. The one or more user devices may provide the user selected method steps of the interactive flow chart methods to the analytical module via the presentation module . After receiving feedback from the user based at least in part on the presented interactive flow chart methods the method may proceed to block .

At block one or more subsequent method steps of the interactive flow chart methods may be provided to the user. For example the analytical module may determine one or more subsequent method steps of the interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the feedback provided by the user. The analytical module may provide the one or more subsequent method steps of the interactive flow chart methods to the user via the presentation module and or the user devices . The user may continue to provide feedback to the analytical module and or the analytical module may continue to provide one or more subsequent method steps of the interactive flow chart methods to the user until the end of the interactive flow chart method and or determination of one or more service problems. After providing one or more subsequent method steps of the interactive flow chart methods to the user the method may proceed to block .

At block diagnostic and or analytical reports may be provided to the user. Upon the end of the one or more interactive flow chart methods and or the determination of the one or more service problems the analytical module may generate a report and or a summary in order to provide diagnostic and or analytical results to the user. The report and or summary having diagnostic and or analytical results may be printed and or displayed to the user. For example the analytical module may display the report and or the summary to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . Also the analytical module may provide the diagnostic and or analytical report to the one or more user devices via the presentation module and the one or more user devices may print the diagnostic report.

At block a user may select to create and or modify one or more interactive flow chart methods in order to diagnose and or analyze one or more service problems. For example one or more service problems may arise and user may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods in order to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems. For example the user may input one or more keywords into a diagnostic server via one or more user devices in order to search for one or more interactive flow chart methods . Analytical module of the diagnostic server may search a database storing one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more keywords inputted by the user. The analytical module may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more keywords and present the one or more identified interactive flow chart methods to the user via the presentation module and or the one or more user devices . Also the user may identify one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems by searching an index and or a table of interactive flow chart methods . In an exemplary embodiment the analytical module may arrange the one or more interactive flow chart methods in the index and or the table in an alphabetical order a categorical order a sequential order most recently used order and or other orders. The user may search the index and or the table of interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more issues in order to identify one or more interactive flow chart methods to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems. After selecting to create and or modify one or more interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems the method may proceed to block .

At block one or more interactive flow chart methods may be created and or modified. For example one or more interactive flow chart methods to diagnose and or analyze the one or more service problems may not already be created. The user may select to create and or modify one or more interactive flow chart method based at least in part on one or more service problems. In an exemplary embodiment in the event that one or more interactive flow chart methods may not be created for one or more service problems the user may create one or more new interactive flow chart methods associated with the one or more service problems. The user may input one or more method steps into the analytical module of the diagnostic server in order to create one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more service problems. In another exemplary embodiment the user may modify one or more existing interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on one or more service problems. For example the user may modify one or more method steps of the one or more interactive flow chart methods based at least in part on the one or more service problems. After creating and or modifying one or more interactive flow chart methods the method may proceed to block .

At block one or more created and or modified interactive flow chart methods may be stored. For example the analytical module may store the one or more newly created and or modified interactive flow chart methods in a repository module and or the database .

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

