---

title: Method and system for forming an image with enhanced contrast and/or reduced noise
abstract: A method and system for generating images from projection data; a preferred embodiment comprising inputting projection data from at least one receiving element; generating a first aperture or array of data points containing positional and signal data; arbitrarily and/or randomly removing data points from the first array to form a series of subarrays comprising different sets of data points; generating preliminary images from the subarrays; comparing the corresponding image pixels from two preliminary images to determine for each pixel location the lesser or equal pixel values; forming a merged image from the lesser or equal pixel values; and repeating the comparison of corresponding image pixels of another preliminary image to the merged image to determine the lesser or equal pixel values until a merged image of the desired quality is obtained. A preferred embodiment of the system may comprise at least one processor, comparator and/or image generator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07796829&OS=07796829&RS=07796829
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07796829
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081210
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates broadly to signal processing and in particular to methods and systems for the enhancing and or processing images from signals such as radar X ray CAT scans MRI magnetic resonance imaging equipment or other image generating machines.

Appendix A contains a partial computer program listing adapted for a preferred embodiment of the present invention.

The present invention relates to the generation of images from projection measurements. Examples of images generated from projection measurements include two dimensional and three dimensional SAR synthetic aperture radar systems. SAR is a form of radar in which the large highly directional rotating antenna used by conventional radar is replaced with many low directivity small stationary antennas scattered over some area near or around the target area. The many echo waveforms received at the different antenna positions are post processed to resolve the target. SAR can be implemented by moving one or more antennas over relatively immobile targets by placing multiple stationary antennas over a relatively large area or combinations thereof. A further example of images generated from projection measurements are ISAR inverse SAR systems which image objects and many features on the ground from satellites aircraft vehicles or any other moving platform. SAR and ISAR systems are used in detecting locating and sometimes identifying ships ground vehicles mines buried pipes roadway faults tunnels leaking buried pipes etc. as well as discovering and measuring geological features forest features mining volumes etc. and general mapping. For example as shown in FIG. 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 805 098 to McCorkle hereby incorporated by reference an aircraft mounted detector array is utilized to take ground radar measurements. Other examples of systems using projection measurements are fault inspection systems using acoustic imaging submarine sonar for imaging underwater objects seismic imaging system for tunnel detection oil exploration geological surveys etc. and medical diagnostic tools such as sonograms echocardiograms x ray CAT computer aided tomography equipment and MRI magnetic resonance imaging equipment.

Systems which produce images from projection data generally use techniques in the time domain where a backprojection type algorithm is used or frequency domain where Fourier transforms are used. Since a Fast Fourier Transform FFT technique such as a technique known as the k implementation requires data to be equally spaced FFT based techniques produce sub optimal images when the data source is moving uncontrollably such as an aircraft buffeted by winds or vehicles in rough terrain. Non uniform spacing requires a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT which increases computation expense relative to a backprojector technique. Also two dimensional FFT s are not well suited to multiprocessor based supercomputers because they face a corner turn interprocessor communication bottleneck.

While there are many forms of Fourier based algorithms for SAR processing they fall into two broad classes known as strip map mode and spot light mode. The most robust technique is the k technique also known as seismic migration. The advantage of the k algorithm over the backprojection algorithm is speed. The k algorithm is an order Nlog N implementation much faster than Nfor large images and data sets.

Time domain backprojection based techniques have been used for numerous applications including x ray CAT scans MRI and sonograms. Historically medical people have preferred backprojection because its artifact levels were lower than those using fast Fourier transform FFT approaches. Efforts in the past to speed up the backprojection process have focused on fast index generation. The algorithm form used by the medical industry e.g. Star Computers for x ray CAT scans requires approximately 2Nadds to form an N by N image from N projections Nadds for indexing operations and Nadds for accumulating the projections into the image. Seismologists and people using SAR have also used backprojection.

Synthetic aperture radar systems have been used in applications such as area mapping surveillance and target detection. The radar is usually mounted on an aircraft or a vehicle configured with transmitting and receiving antennas to transmit and measure the reflected radar signals from areas of interest. Through signal processing the reflected radar signals along the flight path are combined to form the SAR imaging for side looking or forward looking surveillance.

SAR imaging is complex for a variety of reasons. First the data is not inputted at equally distant or known points. Instead data may be inputted in a non uniform manner from an aircraft that is buffeted by the wind or from a ground vehicle that traverses rough ground. Therefore motion compensation must be introduced in order to produce sharp images. Second the subject objects need not be point sources but may be dispersive where energy is stored and re radiated over time. Ground penetrating SAR adds the complication that the media propagation velocity varies which complicates seismic processing. For many SAR applications especially for high resolution ultra wide angle UWA ultra wide bandwidth UWB surveillance systems the task is particularly problematic because the data sets are large real time operation is essential and the aperture geometry is not controlled. For example small aircraft buffeted by the wind can affect SAR data due to significant off track motion and velocity changes. As a result the data is not sampled at equally spaced intervals.

Backprojection techniques provide many advantages including sharper images. Although prior art backprojector implementations may generate image artifacts they are constrained to be local to the object generating the artifacts and generally lie within the theoretical sidelobes. Side lobes are the lobes of the radiation pattern that are not the main beam or lobe. In an antenna radiation pattern or beam pattern the power density in the side lobes is generally much less than that in the main beam. It is generally desirable to minimize the sidelobe level SLL commonly measured in decibels relative to the peak of the main beam. The concepts of main and side lobes apply to but are not limited to for example radar and optics two specific applications of electromagnetics and sonar. The present invention is directed to techniques which minimize the effects of theoretical sidelobes in order to provide enhanced images.

Backprojector techniques also allow for non uniform spacing of the projection data. The non uniform spacing is directly accounted for in the index generation which is important when compensating for aircraft motion.

Conventional time domain image formation or backprojection from SAR data is accomplished by coherently summing the sampled radar returns for each pixel. In this context coherent summation can be thought of as time shifting the signal obtained at each aperture position to align them to a particular pixel and adding across all aperture positions to integrate the value at that pixel. This time align and sum sequence is repeated for every pixel in the image.

A method and system for forming images by backprojection is explained in U.S. Pat. No. 5 805 098 to McCorkle hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein. Specifically FIG. 2 of the 1998 patent illustrates antennas at positions 208 along axis 204 in an array that observe pixels 202 in the near field of the array. A relative position of each pixel q r with respect to each antenna position j defines a vector 206. For each pixel q r the disclosed process time shifts the signals obtained at each aperture position j to align or stack them at a particular pixel location to correct the signals for propagation time along each vector 206 and then adds across all aperture positions to integrate to the value at the pixel. Thus signals propagating from that location are in phase and reinforced while signals propagating from other locations are not in phase and integrate toward zero. The image is generated by forming such a sum for each pixel as shown in equation 1A below.

In equation 1A below the pixels of the image area are indexed by q r and the aperture positions are indexed by j where j 0 . . . L 1 and L is the number of elements in the aperture. If s t represents the range compensated Rpropagation loss corrected where R is range voltage received at the japerture position as a function of time t zis an aperture weighting to shape the sidelobes for example with a Hamming window or to account for the aperture spacing and Tis the time shift necessary to align the signal received at sensor position j to the pixel at position q r a function of the round trip time from sensor phase center to pixel position then the value of the focused pixel at image position q r is given by 

Here t describes how the focused signal at location q r varies with time and is useful for studying late time target ringing. This description of backprojection considers the case where t is fixed for the entire image.

Accurately obtaining the time shifted values s t T requires a time domain interpolation of the sampled received signals. Prior art techniques included the following steps 

The following references give an overview of the state of the art and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties 

An example of a forward looking Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE radar that can be vehicle mounted has been designed and built by the Army Research Lab. A more complete description of the SIRE radar can be found in M. Ressler L. Nguyen F. Koenig D. Wong and G. Smith The Army Research Laboratory ARL Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE Forward Looking Radar Proceedings of SPIE Unmanned Systems Technology IX April 2007 hereby incorporated by reference. The SIRE radar has two transmitters and an array of receiving antennas. The two transmitters alternatively transmit wide bandwidth impulses to illuminate the area in front of the vehicle. An array of receiving antennas measures the returned radar signals. The wide bandwidth of transmitted impulses provides the down range resolution while the array of receiving antennas provides the cross range resolution. It has been shown that the configuration with two transmitters located at the end of the array is the optimum configuration to achieve cross range resolution while minimizing the number of required transmitters.

After data is acquired by the radar hardware it is transferred to a computer for signal processing and image formation. The signal processing steps include a self interference extraction b removing radar signature distortion due to moving platform and c sub band filtering. The self interference processing step to extract the interference components from the returned radar signals and the technique to remove the phase and shape distortion in radar signals due to the motion of the radar platform are described in the publication by Lam Nguyen entitled Signal Processing Technique to Remove Signature Distortion in ARL Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE Ultra Wideband UWB Radar Army Research Laboratory Technical Report ARL TR 4404 March 2008 hereby incorporated by reference.

After all the signal processing steps are applied to the returned radar signals the processed radar range profiles may be used for forming a SAR image. In a preferred embodiment the back projection algorithm is utilized for the image formation step. See John McCorkle and Lam Nguyen Focusing of Dispersive Targets Using Synthetic Aperture Radar Army Research Laboratory Report ARL TR 305 August 1994.

The index is computed using the round trip distance between the transmitting element the image pixel and the receiving element. The transmitting element is located at the coordinate x k y k z k . The distance between the transmitting element and the image pixel P i is square root over square root over square root over square root over square root over square root over 2 

The distance between the receiving element and the image pixel P i is square root over square root over square root over square root over square root over square root over 3 

The following is a description of the platform in as it passes four sequential positions located at x coordinates A B C D respectively. The formation of the first sub image begins when platform is at the coordinate A 20 meters from the block labeled 1sub image. As platform travels in the x direction as shown in signals emitted from platform illuminates an entire image area to the right of platform and the reflected signals are received by an array of 16 physical receiving antennas positioned on the front of the platform . Formation of the first sub image ends when platform 10 reaches coordinate C at approximately 8 m from the block labeled 1sub image. Accordingly the radar signal data for the first full resolution sub image is received as radar platform travels a distance of 12 meters 20 m 8 m 12 m from coordinates A to C for formation of a two dimensional 2D aperture.

The distance traveled during the formation of the two dimensional 2 D aperture is represented by an arrow in labeled Aperture 1. When the platform reaches coordinate B a distance of 2 meters from coordinate A in the formation of the 2sub image begins and as the platform travels to coordinate D it uses the received data to form a second 2 D aperture. The distance traveled by platform is represented by an arrow in labeled Aperture 2. Note that the two apertures are overlapped by 10 m and the second aperture is advanced by 2 m with respect to the first aperture. Sub images 1 and 2 are formed from the 2 D apertures using the same length of travel 12 meters of the radar. This process is applied to ensure that image pixels have almost the same within a specified tolerance resolution across the entire large area. The sub images are formed from the radar range profiles using the back projection algorithm.

The term noise as used herein relates to image noise. There are many sources that cause noise in the resulting image. Noise can be divided into two categories additive noise and multiplicative noise. System noise thermal noise quantization noise self interference noise radio frequency interference RFI noise are some examples of the additive noise. Multiplicative noise is much more difficult to deal with since it is data dependent. Some sources that cause multiplicative noise include timing jitter in data sampling small aperture size compared to image area the under sampling of aperture samples the non uniform spacing between aperture samples errors in position measurement system etc. Multiplicative noise results in undesired sidelobes that create high noise floor in the image and thus limit the ability to detect targets with smaller amplitudes.

Radar and other imaging systems currently suffer various noise sources that prevent the generation of very high contrast images. As a result difficult targets with low amplitudes are often obscured or even embedded in the noise level of the image background. Moreover sidelobes from large targets are mistaken as targets of interest. Recently the ARL has designed and built a new ultra wideband imaging system for the detection of difficult targets. Currently there exists a need for an improved signal processing technique which reduces unwanted noise and enhances image reproduction.

The invention enables the generation of very high contrast images with greatly enhanced performance. The resulting benefits are a high contrast image with the significant reduction in the noise level b detection of targets with very small amplitudes and c the reduction in the false alarm rate. Such benefits result in a substantially improved practical system for detecting difficult targets which is an obstacle that most radar systems are facing today. The present invention comprises a non linear imaging algorithm that significantly improves the background noise level of the resulting image without negatively affecting the focus quality sharpness as well as the target amplitudes. A preferred embodiment of this technique has been denominated as Recursive Sidelobe Minimization RSM which has been successfully implemented and tested.

Briefly a preferred embodiment of the invention involves the collection of radar data from a number of positions. For each position radar data and the positional data are recorded. As used herein a data point represents the received signal radar data from each position obtained during an instant or interval in time combined with positional information corresponding to the transmitting and or receiving position or location. The data points may be collected by either an array of elements or a single moving element which receives data at points in time or the combination of both e.g. a physical array of elements with the elements moving over increments of time. The data collection may be sporadic or at specific intervals of time. In a preferred embodiment of the invention as exemplified in data points are obtained using an array of receiving elements which receive data incrementally. The data points are arranged to form an aperture. As used herein the term aperture means the information or data components used to form an image which may be for example an array of data points developed from a scanned area target or scene which can be used to form an image. In the apertures depicted in each column represents an interval during which the 1 k elements receive data each data point representing the image data from the signal received combined with the coordinates of the receiving element. In accordance with the principles of the present invention after the data points are established in an aperture or array as diagrammatically shown in a substantial portion of data points are removed from the original aperture array of data points to form a subarray. Conversely the subarray may be formed by the selection of data points within the original aperture. Depending upon the quality of the result desired and the nature of the image being undertaken the substantial portion of the data points removed or selected may range from as little as one percent to ninety percent. However one percent removal will result in negligible difference and ninety percent removal will result in drastic reduction of image quality. In general it is preferred that the percentage of data points subject to removal be within a range of approximately twenty to fifty percent. Using the remaining data points in the aperture a first preliminary image is formed. During a second interval the process of removing a different set of twenty to fifty percent of the data points within the original aperture is repeated and a second aperture is formed. In a preferred embodiment the data points subject to removal are randomly chosen. However random selection is not necessary to practice the principles of the present invention and some other arbitrary or contrived selection process may be used.

A second preliminary image is formed from the second aperture following the removal of a different set of data points. The first and second preliminary images are then compared. Using the principles of the present invention the magnitude of the signal at each bit mapped location of the preliminary images is compared. Any pixel having a greater or equal value is discarded and only the lesser value is used for each bit mapped location in the merged image. For each subsequent iteration approximately twenty to fifty percent of the data points are removed to form an aperture and the preliminary image developed therefrom is compared with the previously merged image. The magnitude of the signal at each pixel or bit mapped location is compared and only the lesser value is retained for each bitmapped location in the combined image. This process is repeated iteratively over a series of iterations which may be for example ten to several hundred iterations. The result is the substantial elimination of noise from the resulting merged image.

Although the technique is implemented and demonstrated for the ultra wide band forward looking imaging radar e.g. ARL SIRE the technique is suitable for used for other image radar as well. We also applied the technique for the BoomSAR radar which is a different radar with different configuration side looking . Moreover this imaging technique is not limited to the formation of radar images as it can be applied to other applications such as CAT scans magnetic resonance seismic sonar and acoustic imaging.

Use of the present invention results in an improvement of image contrast by reducing system noise by a significant level significantly improving system performance and can be adapted for use with existing radar systems.

An advantage of the present invention over presently known devices systems or processes is the generation of high contrast images produced by significantly reducing the noise level in the system such that very difficult targets or objects with low amplitudes in the image can be detected which otherwise would be embedded in the system noise.

Generally speaking in any imaging system the sidelobes from large objects or noisy spots generated by the system may be mistaken as targets of interest. In accordance with the principles of the present invention the large sidelobes are substantially virtually eliminated thus reducing the false alarm objects that would be considered as targets of interest.

Possible uses other than radar imaging include magnetic resonance imaging CAT scan sonar imaging and acoustic imaging.

These and other aspects of the embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments of the invention include all such modifications.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Step 2 The radar aperture is formed in preparation for image formation. The aperture consists of K elements. Each element in the radar aperture includes the radar receiving position information x k y k z k the radar transmitting information x k y k z k and the data record s t that the radar measures at this location. For side looking radar the aperture is usually a linear path with data measured along the path. For the forward looking radar mentioned above a 2D radar aperture is generated formed by the physical antenna array and the forward motion of the radar. Although the terminology 2D or two dimensional is used to reflect the aperture configuration the data within the 2D aperture may contain three dimensional information concerning the target area in that the signal data may include the distance at which the target is located relative to the receiving element. In general the radar aperture may take any of a variety of shapes and those shown are merely examples.

Step 3 The imaging grid is formed. In a preferred embodiment a rectangular imaging grid is generated although the imaging grid could be arbitrary defined. Each pixel Pin the imaging grid is located at coordinate x i y i z i .

Step 4 A random compressive aperture is generated using the radar aperture with K elements from step 2. The compressive aperture is formed by selecting only L elements from the original aperture for the imaging process. The value for L is 01 6 Accordingly only a subset of the aperture positions are used for image formation. The remaining K L aperture positions are simply discarded for this realization. The typical number that we use for our configuration is p 0.8 i.e. 80 of the aperture is employed and 20 of the aperture is discarded at each iteration . The value of p that can achieve best result should be examined and optimized for each configuration of geometry and radar data set. In a preferred embodiment the selection of L aperture positions is completely random for each realization. If Arepresents a vector that contains the indices of aperture positions to be included in the image formation process for lrealization then A a a . . . a 7 where a is a random number 1 a K and a afor m n. 8 

The preferred embodiment may use a random number generator that produces random numbers with certain distribution. Those of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that there are many types of distributions. The two distributions that are widely employed in practice are uniform in which all values from a finite set of possible values are equally probable and Gaussian in which all values from a finite set of possible values follow the Gaussian distribution that has the shape of a bell curve . Although any random number distribution could be used to realize 7 and 8 a uniform distribution random number generator may be employed in this preferred embodiment. There are many different implementations for generating a uniformly distributed random numbers for use in conjunction with the present invention including those random number generator routines that are usually defined and included in general purpose computer programming languages. For example in C programming language the two routines srand and rand are used to generate a random number. First the srand routine is called to initialize the random number generator. Next the rand routine is called to generate a random number between 0 and a predefined value RAND MAX. The following code fragment C language demonstrates how to generate 100 uniformly distributed numbers that have values from 0 to M 1000.

To generate the vector of random number Aas described in 7 and 8 one can use the random number generator as shown in the above code fragment example. Each time a random number is generated it is compared to the previous ones to ensure that all elements in Aare unique as specified in 8 . Otherwise another random number is generated to satisfy 8 .

It can be readily appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the term random numbers as used herein includes numbers generated selectively or arbitrarily. As shown in the foregoing the selection process may be one of those commonly associated with computer programming but other number selection processes or arbitrary number selection processes may be utilized to achieve the same or similar results without departing from the principles of the present invention.

Generally speaking it is not intuitive as to why only a subset of the original radar aperture is used instead of the full aperture for forming image since gaps introduced in the subset of an aperture would seem to result in inferior performance. In prior art conventional techniques one always prefers the full data set and avoids the gapped data set. However the benefit of this subset approach will be examined later in conjunction with step 7 below.

Step 5 The image is formed using the compressive aperture generated from step 4. The compressive aperture derived from Awith L elements is then used to form the lrealization of the sub image using the backprojection method as described above.

This results in the lrealization of the sub image with I pixels in the down range direction and J pixels in the cross range direction where N I J P 1 9 where P i is computed using equation 1 with modification reproduced below 

Step 6 The envelope of the image generated in step 5 is computed. The image generated in step 5 can also be written as 11 10 where Pis the jdown range profile from the lrealization sub image. The corresponding quadrature component of this image down range profile is computed by applying the Hilbert transform filter to the in phase component Hilbert 11 

The Hilbert transform filter has magnitude 1 at all frequencies and introduces a phase shift of 2 for positive frequencies and 2 for negative frequencies. Thus the Hilbert transform filter is used to shift the real signal each image down range profile by 2 to generate its quadrature component in order to compute its envelope.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention in one preferred embodiment using the Hilbert transform filter the envelope of the jdown range profile from the lrealization of the image may be computed as square root over square root over . where the subscript is 12 The envelope of this image is simply 11 13 

Step 7 An intermediate resulting image is computed. The minimum operator is applied to two images 1 the intermediate result from previous iteration l 1 and 2 the image formed from this iteration. For each image pixel the values of the two images are compared and the minimum value is selected min 2 14 where Imis the intermediate resulting image at i iteration. Note that equation 14 is defined for 2 l M. For the first iteration l 1 Imis initialized with a very large values so that the intermediate resulting image Im minI Im I.

Another performance comparison is shown in wherein the cross range profile horizontal cut through each image two input images and one resulting image is displayed to compare the sidelobe level and the target response from each image. Again it can be appreciated that the target responses remain substantially the same while the sidelobe level of the resulting image is better lower than either input image. By repeating this process for many compressive apertures the sidelobe level in the resulting image continues to improve lower while the target responses remain substantially unchanged.

After step 7 the algorithm returns to step 4 to continue with the next iteration until the Miteration is finished. The intermediate resulting image is also sent to the display routine for visualizing the image. illustrates the compressive image and the intermediate resulting image generated in the first three iterations. shows the results at various iterations. In the resulting image at iteration 50 the sidelobes are significantly suppressed while the responses of the two targets remained unchanged.

Although the above description illustrates the application of the RSM technique for a preferred embodiment configuration a UWB radar configured in forward looking imaging mode this RSM method could be applied to any coherent imaging system where measurements from an aperture of arbitrary geometry linear curve 2 D or 3 D are coherently integrated to form a 2D or 3D image. shows the before and after images when the RSM technique is applied to the SIRE radar data in forward looking configuration. illustrates a comparison of a baseline image left with an image right from a Recursive Sidelobe Minimization RSM preferred embodiment technique using data from another radar e.g. BoomSAR with a different geometry side looking SAR and a single transmit antenna and single receive antenna in a pseudo monostatic configuration.

A preferred embodiment code listing representative of the RSM algorithm is included in Appendix A. This pseudo code includes more details than the flowchart shown in . A variety of computer languages may be used in accordance with the principles of the present invention.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and protected by the following claims. The term processor as used herein includes multiprocessors computers supercomputers data processor laptops signal processors personal computers and or any component which processes data. The term image generator as used herein includes a processor which generate images and or any element or component including components within a processor which generate images. The term comparator as used herein means a component within a processor operative to complete a comparison function or a separate processor or component which compares sets of data in order to determine lesser or equal values.

The term bitmap is derived from a mapped array of bits and bitmapped and pixmap refer to the similar concept of a spatially mapped array of pixels. The term bitmapped as used herein encompasses pixmap. The term bitmapped means a set of bits that represents a graphic image with each bit or group of bits corresponding to a pixel. As used in the following claims the term bitmapped encompasses all images formed using pixels. For example all images acquired by digital cameras and camcorders scanners and screen capture programs are bitmapped images.

As used in the following claims the term processor means one or more processing units central processing units processor cores microprocessors digital signal processors multiprocessors computers and or controllers which may be connected together or to other circuitry in a manner known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As used in the foregoing claims the terminology area includes object s person s setting place or scene. For example scanning an area includes scanning an object or objects person or persons place or scene. The terminology positional data includes but is not limited to spatial information relating to location.

