---

title: N-substituted azaindoles and methods of use
abstract: The invention relates to N-substituted azaindolyl compounds of Formula I with anti-cancer and/or anti-inflammatory activity and more specifically to N-substituted azaindolyl compounds which inhibit MEK kinase activity. The invention provides compositions and methods useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder, or treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro, in situ, and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells, or associated pathological conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08258152&OS=08258152&RS=08258152
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08258152
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080611
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 943 441 filed 12 Jun. 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to N substituted azaindolyl compounds with anti cancer activity and more specifically to N substituted azaindolyl compounds which inhibit MEK kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

In the quest to understand how Ras transmits extracellular growth signals the MAP mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK pathway has emerged as the crucial route between membrane bound Ras and the nucleus. The MAPK pathway encompasses a cascade of phosphorylation events involving three key kinases namely Raf MEK MAP kinase and ERK MAP kinase . Active GTP bound Ras results in the activation and indirect phosphorylation of Raf kinase. Raf then phosphorylates MEK1 and 2 on two serine residues S218 and S222 for MEK1 and S222 and S226 for MEK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Activated MEK then phosphorylates its only known substrates the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2. ERK phosphorylation by MEK occurs on Y204 and T202 for ERK1 and Y185 and T183 for ERK2 Ahn et al. 2001 332 417 431 . Phosphorylated ERK dimerizes and then translocates to the nucleus where it accumulates Khokhlatchev et al. 1998 93 605 615 . In the nucleus ERK is involved in several important cellular functions including but not limited to nuclear transport signal transduction DNA repair nucleosome assembly and translocation and mRNA processing and translation Ahn et al. Molecular Cell 2000 6 1343 1354 . Overall treatment of cells with growth factors leads to the activation of ERK1 and 2 which results in proliferation and in some cases differentiation Lewis et al. Adv. Cancer Res. 1998 74 49 139 .

There has been strong evidence that genetic mutations and or overexpression of protein kinases involved in the MAP kinase pathway lead to uncontrolled cell proliferation and eventually tumor formation in proliferative diseases. For example some cancers contain mutations which result in the continuous activation of this pathway due to continuous production of growth factors. Other mutations can lead to defects in the deactivation of the activated GTP bound Ras complex again resulting in activation of the MAP kinase pathway. Mutated oncogenic forms of Ras are found in 50 of colon and 90 pancreatic cancers as well as many others types of cancers Kohl et al. Science 1993 260 1834 1837 . Recently bRaf mutations have been identified in more than 60 of malignant melanoma Davies H. et al. Nature 2002 417 949 954 . These mutations in bRaf result in a constitutively active MAP kinase cascade. Studies of primary tumor samples and cell lines have also shown constitutive or overactivation of the MAP kinase pathway in cancers of pancreas colon lung ovary and kidney Hoshino R. et al. Oncogene 1999 18 813 822 .

MEK has emerged as an attractive therapeutic target in the MAP kinase cascade pathway. MEK downstream of Ras and Raf is highly specific for the phosphorylation of MAP kinase in fact the only known substrates for MEK phosphorylation are the MAP kinases ERK1 and 2 Inhibition of MEK has been shown to have potential therapeutic benefit in several studies. For example small molecule MEK inhibitors have been shown to inhibit human tumor growth in nude mouse xenografts Sebolt Leopold et al. 1999 5 7 810 816 Trachet et al. AACR Apr. 6 10 2002 Poster 5426 Tecle H. IBC 2.sup.nd International Conference of Protein Kinases Sep. 9 10 2002 block static allodynia in animals WO 01 05390 published Jan. 25 2001 and inhibit growth of acute myeloid leukemia cells Milella et al. 2001 108 6 851 859 .

Several small molecule MEK inhibitors have also been discussed in for example WO02 06213 WO 03 077855 and WO03 077914. There still exists a need for new MEK inhibitors as effective and safe therapeutics for treating a variety of proliferative disease states such as conditions related to the hyperactivity of MEK as well as diseases modulated by the MEK cascade.

The invention relates generally to N substituted azaindolyl compounds of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof with anti cancer and or anti inflammatory activity and more specifically with MEK kinase inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative and inflammatory disorders are characterized by the modulation of MEK kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention and compositions thereof are useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer and or inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.

R R Rand Rare independently selected from H halo CN CF OCF NO CRR C Y OR CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a 3 6 membered saturated ring having 0 1 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF C Calkyl OH O C Calkyl 

Xis selected from OR NRR and S O R when Xis OR said ORand Roptionally taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 4 7 membered saturated or unsaturated ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R 

Xis selected from H C Calkyl halo CN CF O C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl and SON C Calkyl 

R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered saturated unsaturated or aromatic ring having 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

wherein each said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl of R R R R R R X X R R R R and Ris independently optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR S O OR CRR OP Y OR OR CRR OP OR OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R 

each R Rand Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered saturated unsaturated or aromatic ring having 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

Rand Rare independently selected from H C Calkyl CH aryl CH carbocyclyl CH heterocyclyl and CH heteroaryl 

Ris C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein each member of Ris optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo oxo CN OCF CF NO C Calkyl OH SH O C Calkyl S C Calkyl NH NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl COH CO C Calkyl C O NH C O NH C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O C Calkyl NHC O C Calkyl NHSO C Calkyl N C Calkyl SO C Calkyl SONH SONH C Calkyl SON C Calkyl OC O NH OC O NH C Calkyl OC O N C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O NH C Calkyl N C Calkyl C O N C Calkyl NHC O NH C Calkyl NHC O N C Calkyl NHC O O C Calkyl and N C Calkyl C O O C Calkyl 

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic and or a second anti inflammatory agent. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 18 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 18 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 18 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term halo refers to F Cl Br or I. The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclcyl include the oxidized forms such as N O S O and S O .

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms abnormal cell growth and hyperproliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The term inflammatory diseases as used in this application includes but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis atherosclerosis congestive hear failure inflammatory bowel disease chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in the lung fibrotic disease in the liver and kidney Crohn s disease and skin diseases such as psoriasis eczema and scleroderma.

An anti inflammatory agent is a compound useful in the treatment of inflammation. Examples of anti inflammatory agents include injectable protein therapeutics such as Enbrel Remicade Humira and Kineret .

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as the PI3 kinase inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and 1 or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and silyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I unless otherwise indicated include compounds of Formula I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

The present invention provides N substituted azaindolyl compounds of Formula I as described above useful as kinase inhibitors particularly useful as MEK kinase inhibitors. The present invention includes compounds of Formulae I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h I i and I j and all other variables are as defined in Formula I.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H OR or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I b I c I d I h I i or I j.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H ORwherein Ris C Calkyl or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I b I c I d I h I i or H.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H methyl or OEt and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I b I c I d I h I i or H.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H OR or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I f I g or I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H C Calkyl or ORwherein Ris C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I f I g or I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H methyl or OEt and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I c I d I f I g or I j or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H methyl or Cl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I d I e I g or I i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CF OR or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halo and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I f or I h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H halo CF C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halo or ORwherein Ris C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I f or I h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H Cl Br F methyl ethyl CHF CF or OEt and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I f or I h or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris Cl Br F methyl ethyl CHF or CF and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I e I f or I h or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Ris H or C Calkyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Rand Rare taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cyclopropyl or cyclobutyl ring.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis OR and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris H and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris C Calkyl e.g. C Calkyl substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris heterocyclyl e.g. 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORwherein Ris 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl having 1 nitrogen ring atom wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis ORand said ORand Rare taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a 5 7 membered saturated or unsaturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis ORand said ORand Rare taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached to form a 5 6 membered saturated cyclic ring having 0 2 additional heteroatoms selected from O S and N wherein said cyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I or I a to I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis S O R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h I i or I j or as defined above.

In another embodiment of the present invention Xis S O Rwherein Ris H or methyl and all other variables are as defined in Formula II I a I b I c I d I e I f I g I h I i or I j or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis aryl e.g. phenyl wherein said aryl is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from halo CN CF OCF NO oxo Si C Calkyl CRR C Y R CRR C Y OR CRR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR SR CRR NRC Y R CRR NRC Y OR CRR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR CRR OC Y R CRR OC Y OR CRR OC Y NRR CRR OS O OR CRR S O R CRR S O R CRR S O NRR CRR S O OR CRR S O OR CRR SC Y R CRR SC Y OR CRR SC Y NRR and R and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I i II a to II i or III a to III i or as defined above.

In an embodiment of the present invention Xis H methyl or Cl and all other variables are as defined in Formula I I a to I j or as defined above.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds described in EXAMPLES 5 9 and compounds below 

The N substituted azaindolyl compounds of Formula I are prepared according to the procedures described below in Reaction Scheme 1 and examples or by methods known in the art. The starting materials and various intermediates may be obtained from commercial sources prepared from commercially available compounds or prepared using well known synthetic methods.

For example 6 aza N substituted indoles of Formula I b may be prepared using the synthetic routes outlined in Scheme 1.

Compounds of formula 1 may be prepared using published methods described in the literature. It will be appreciated that where appropriate functional groups exist compounds of formula 2 and 3 may be further derivatized by one or more standard synthetic methods employing substitution oxidation reduction or cleavage reactions.

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit MEK activity and activation primary assays and for their biological effects on growing cells secondary assays as described below. The compounds having ICof less than 5 M preferably less than 1 M more preferably less than 0.5 M in the MEK activity assay of Example 1 ICof less than 5 M preferably less than 0.1 M more preferably less than 0.01 M in the MEK activation assay of Example 2 ECof less than 10 M preferably less than 5 M more preferably less than 0.5 M in the cell proliferation assay of Example 3 and or ECof less than 10 M preferably less than 1 M more preferably less than 0.1 M in the ERK phosphorylation assay of Example 4 are useful as MEK inhibitors.

The present invention includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition e.g. a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human . The present compositions are also useful for treating inflammatory diseases in a mammal e.g. human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof. Also included in the present invention is a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present invention also includes a method of treating an inflammatory disease in a mammal e.g. human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and or solvates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second anti inflammatory agent such as those described herein.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Administration of the compounds of the present invention hereinafter the active compound s can be effected by any method that enables delivery of the compounds to the site of action. These methods include oral routes intraduodenal routes parenteral injection including intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular intravascular or infusion topical inhalation and rectal administration.

The amount of the active compound administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day preferably about 1 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.05 to 7 g day preferably about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The active compound may be applied as a sole therapy or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic or anti inflammatory agents for example those described herein. Such conjoint treatment may be achieved by way of the simultaneous sequential or separate dosing of the individual components of treatment.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for oral administration as a tablet capsule pill powder sustained release formulations solution suspension for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a specific amount of active compound are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art. For examples see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Ester Pa. 15.sup.th Edition 1975 .

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP 1100 LC system with diode array detector. Uses a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C18 100 3.0 mm column and a 1 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP 1100 LC system with diode array detector and 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 30 4.6 mm column and a 2 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B for the first 0.50 minutes followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Method C Experiments performed on a Shimadzu LCMS 2010A liquid chromatography mass spectrometer linked to a Shimadzu LC 10AD VP LC system with diode array detector. Uses a Kromasil 100 5 micron C18 50 4.6 mm column and a 2.5 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 100 water containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent A and 0 acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent B followed by a gradient up to 10 solvent A and 90 solvent B over 7 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 3 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a Personal Chemistry Emrys Initiator or Optimizer which uses a single mode resonator and dynamic field tuning both of which give reproducibility and control. Temperatures from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures of up to 20 bar can be reached.

Constitutively activated human mutant MEK1 expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity at a final concentration in the kinase assay of 62.5 nM.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 50 M ATP using recombinant GST ERK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF reagents supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Thr202 Tyr204 ERK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. The anti phospho antibody recognises ERK1 dually phosphorylated on Thr202 and Tyr204. When both antibodies are bound to ERK1 i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multiwell fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Constitutively activated bRaf mutant expressed in insect cells is used as source of enzymatic activity.

The assay is carried out for 30 minutes in the presence of 200 M ATP using recombinant GST MEK1 produced in as substrate. Phosphorylation of the substrate is detected and quantified using HTRF and reagents are supplied by Cisbio. These consist of an anti GST antibody conjugated to allophycocyanin XL665 and an anti phospho Ser217 Ser221 MEK antibody conjugated to europium cryptate. The anti phospho antibody recognises MEK dually phosphorylated on Ser217 and Ser221 or singly phosphorylated on Ser217. When both antibodies are bound to MEK i.e. when the substrate is phosphorylated energy transfer from the cryptate to the allophycocyanin occurs following excitation at 340 nm resulting in fluorescence being emitted that is proportional to the amount of phosphorylated substrate produced. Fluorescence is detected using a multi well fluorimeter.

Compounds are diluted in DMSO prior to addition to assay buffer and the final DMSO concentration in the assay is 1 .

The ICis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 hours they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 72 h and an equal volume of CellTiter Glo reagent Promega is added to each well. This lyses the cells and generates a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP released and therefore proportional to the number of cells in the well that can be detected using a multi well luminometer.

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 inhibition of control. ICvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

Both cell lines are maintained in DMEM F12 1 1 media Gibco supplemented with 10 FCS at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 96 well plates at 2 000 cells well and after 24 h they are exposed to different concentrations of compounds in 0.83 DMSO. Cells are grown for a further 24 h or 2 h fixed with formaldehyde 2 final and permeabilised with methanol. Following blocking with TBST 3 BSA fixed cells are incubated with primary antibody anti phospho ERK from rabbit over night at 4 C. Cells are incubated with Propidium Iodide DNA fluorescent dye and detection of cellular P ERK is performed using an anti rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to the fluorescent Alexa Fluor 488 dye Molecular probes . The fluorescence is analysed using the Acumen Explorer TTP Labtech a laser scanning microplate cytometer and the Alexa Fluor 488 signal is normalised to the PI signal proportional to cell number .

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves a signal half way between the baseline and the maximum response. ECvalues are calculated using the XLfit software package version 2.0.5 .

To a solution of di tert butyl dicarbonate 11.1 g 50.9 mmol in THF 12.5 ml was added 4 amino 3 picoline 5.0 g 46.2 mmol in THF 37.5 ml . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours before being concentrated in vacuo to provide a residue. The residue was triturated with heptane whereby the resultant white solid 7.34 g 74 was collected by filtration and dried in vacuo. LCMS Method B R 1.61 min M H 209.

To a solution of 4 methyl pyridin 3 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 3.5 g 16.8 mmol in anhydrous THF 30 ml under an atmosphere of argon at 40 C. was added tert butyl lithium 20.7 ml 1.7 M in pentanes 35.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was maintained at 40 C. for 1 hour before a solution of diethyl oxalate 2.5 ml 18.5 mmol in THF 30 ml was added over a 15 minute period. After stirring for 2 hours at 0 C. the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and then stirred for a further 19 hours. 2N HCl 110 ml was cautiously added to the reaction mixture which was then heated at reflux for 2 hours. After cooling dichloromethane 100 ml was added to the reaction mixture and the aqueous phase was adjusted to pH 8 and the organic phase was isolated. The aqueous phase was washed with dichloromethane 2 50 ml and the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate then concentrated to afford a light brown solid. The material was triturated with ethyl acetate and the resultant solid was then collected by filtration to afford the desired product as a beige solid 586 mg 18 . LCMS Method B R 1.89 min M H 190.

To a suspension of methyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 0.81 g 4.26 mmol in DMF 15 ml was added potassium tert butoxide 0.72 g 6.39 mmol . After the resultant red brown suspension had been stirred for 40 minutes a solution of 2 fluoro 4 iodobenzyl bromide 2.01 g 6.39 mmol in DMF 5 ml was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The suspension was then heated to 60 C. for 35 minutes before stirring at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo the resultant residue partitioned between dichloromethane 40 ml and water 30 ml and the organic layer separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 25 ml and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine 30 ml dried over magnesium sulphate then concentrated in vacuo to provide a residue. The residue was purified by flash chromatography Si SPE dichloromethane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 50 50 to 0 100 then dichloromethane methanol 90 10 to 80 20 gave the title compound as a pale cream solid 0.83 g 46 . LCMS method B R 2.58 min M H 425.

To a solution of methyl 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 0.46 g 1.09 mmol in methanol 4 ml was added 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 1.4 ml 1.40 mmol and the reaction was heated at reflux for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and azeotroped with toluene 15 ml methanol 15 ml toluene 15 ml and dichloromethane to afford the crude title compound as a waxy white solid 0.50 g quantitative yield . LCMS method B R 2.11 min M H 395 M H 397.

EDCI 259 mg 1.08 mmol and HOBt 204 mg 1.51 mmol were added to a suspension of sodium 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 494 mg 1.08 mmol in THF 7 ml . The suspension was warmed gently for 1 minute before the addition of a solution of O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 222 mg 1.51 mmol in THF 3 ml followed by DIPEA 0.19 ml 1.10 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours poured into ethyl acetate 60 ml and washed sequentially with 0.1M HCl 10 ml saturated NaHCOsolution 10 ml and brine 10 ml . The organic layer was isolated and dried over magnesium sulphate then concentrated in vacuo to provide a residue. Trituration of the residue in dichloromethane afforded the title compound as a pale cream solid 0.433 g 76 . LCMS method B R 2.32 min M H 524 M H 526.

1 2 Fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 29 mg 0.06 mmol was dissolved in 0.067 M methanolic HCl solution 2.3 ml 0.15 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo then azeotroped with toluene 2 15 ml . Purification by flash chromatography NH SPE dichloromethane ethyl acetate 20 80 methanol dichloromethane 5 35 60 triethylamine methanol dichloromethane followed by trituration in acetonitrile afforded the product as a cream solid 13 mg 49 . LCMS Method A R 4.53 min M H 484 M H 486. H NMR CDOD 3.60 2H m 3.85 1H m 3.91 1H dd J 10.2 6.8 Hz 4.02 1H dd J 10.2 3.8 Hz 5.93 2H s 6.66 1H t J 8.0 Hz 7.13 1H s 7.43 1H dd J 8.0 1.6 Hz 7.52 1H dd J 9.7 1.6 Hz 7.80 1H d J 5.5 Hz 8.22 1H d br J 5.5 Hz 8.97 1H s .

HATU 67 mg 0.18 mmol and triethylamine 50 L 0.35 mmol were added to a solution of sodium 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 49 mg 0.12 mmol and O cyclopropylmethyl hydroxylamine hydrochloride 21.8 mg 0.178 mmol in DMF 500 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 h then a further 11 mg 0.09 mmol of O cyclopropylmethyl hydroxylamine hydrochloride 33 mg 0.09 mmol of HATU and 50 L 0.35 mmol of triethylamine was added. Stirring was continued for a further 18 h then the reaction mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 15 mL . The organic layer was washed with a 1 1 solution of saturated NaHCOand brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford a yellow oil. The crude product was purified by reversed phase HPLC to afford the title compound as a white powder TFA salt 39 mg 57 . LCMS Method C R 3.17 min M H 466. H NMR DMSO D 0.21 m 2H 0.51 m 2H 1.00 m 1H 3.60 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 5.96 s 2H 6.61 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.33 s 1H 7.47 dd J 8.0 1.2 Hz 1H 7.68 dd J 9.6 1.6 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 8.43 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 9.52 s 1H .

To a solution of ethyl 1 2 fluoro 4 iodobenzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 78 mg 0.183 mmol in methanol 1.0 ml was added 1 N NaOH 0.19 ml and water 0.66 ml . The reaction mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 1 hour. The solvents were evaporated in vacuo and the residue azeotroped with toluene to afford a while solid. The solid was dissolved in DMF 2.0 ml and then O 2 vinyloxy ethyl hydroxylamine 23 mg 0.220 mmol and HATU 104 mg 0.275 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 18 hours. Water 20 ml was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 20 ml twice. The ethyl acetate solutions were combined and washed with water 10 ml once brine 10 ml once dried with MgSO and concentrated to a crude oil. The crude oil was purified by flash column chromatography to afford 88 mg of an oil. The oil was dissolved in ethanol 2.0 ml and 1 N aqueous HCl 0.4 ml was added. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature concentrated to a crude oil and purified by RPHPLC to afford the title compound as a white powder TFA salt 29 mg 31 . LCMS Method C R 2.17 min M H 456. H NMR DMSO D 3.56 t J 4.8 Hz 2H 3.86 t J 4.8 Hz 2H 5.97 s 2H 6.62 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.48 dd J 8.0 Hz 1.2 Hz 1H 7.68 dd J 10 Hz 1.6 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 6 Hz 1H 8.44 d J 6.4 Hz 1H 9.51 s 1H 12.33 s 1H .

Palladium II acetate 1.5 mg 5 mol was added to a mixture of 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 55 mg 0.11 mmol trimethylsilylacetylene 138 l 1.0 mmol and triphenylphosphine 3 mg 10 mol in piperidine 0.5 ml . The resultant mixture was heated at 150 C. under microwave irradiation for 10 seconds. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 35 ml and washed sequentially with water 10 ml then brine 10 ml . The organic layer was isolated dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to provide a residue. The residue was dissolved in methanol 5 ml to which potassium carbonate 29 mg 0.21 mmol was added and the resultant suspension was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered concentrated in vacuo and then partitioned between ethyl acetate 25 ml and water 20 ml . The organic layer was isolated dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to provide a residue. Purification by flash chromatography Si SPE dichloromethane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 70 30 to 40 60 to 0 100 afforded the title compound as a yellow solid 30 mg 68 . LCMS method B R 2.21 min M H 422 M H 424.

1 4 Ethynyl 2 fluoro benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 30 mg 0.07 mmol was dissolved in 0.067 M methanolic HCl solution 3 ml 0.20 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo then azeotroped with toluene 2 15 ml to give a solid residue. Purification of the solid residue by flash chromatography NH SPE dichloromethane ethyl acetate 20 80 methanol dichloromethane 5 35 60 triethylamine methanol dichloromethane followed by trituration in acetonitrile afforded the product as a cream solid 5 mg 18 . LCMS Method A R 4.03 min M H 382 M H 384. H NMR CDOD 3.58 1H s 3.60 2H m 3.85 1H m 3.91 1H dd J 10.2 6.8 Hz 4.03 1H dd J 10.2 3.8 Hz 5.97 2H s 6.84 1H t J 7.9 Hz 7.11 1H s 7.16 1H dd J 7.9 1.5 Hz 7.21 1H dd J 10.8 1.5 Hz 7.76 1H d J 5.6 Hz 8.22 1H d br J 5.6 Hz 8.93 1H s .

To a suspension of methyl 4 bromo 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 0.59 g 2.31 mmol in DMF 10 ml was added potassium tert butoxide 0.39 g 3.47 mmol . After the red brown suspension had been stirred for 30 minutes a solution of 2 fluoro 4 iodobenzyl bromide 1.24 g 3.93 mmol in DMF 4 ml was added dropwise over 10 minutes. The suspension was then heated to 60 C. for 45 minutes before stirring at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to give a residue. The residue was partitioned between dichloromethane 30 ml and water 30 ml and the organic layer separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 25 ml and the combined organic extracts were dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to give a residue. Purification of the resultant residue by flash chromatography Si SPE dichloromethane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 60 40 to 40 60 to 0 100 then dichloromethane methanol 90 10 to 80 20 gave a 1 2 mixture of the title compounds methyl ester transesterified tert butyl ester as a waxy yellow solid 0.21 g 18 that was used without further purification.

To a solution of methyl tert butyl 4 bromo 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 0.21 g 0.41 mmol in methanol 4 ml was added 1M aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide 0.54 ml 0.54 mmol and the reaction was heated at reflux for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo then azeotroped with toluene 15 ml methanol 15 ml toluene 15 ml and dichloromethane to afford the crude title compound as a waxy white solid 0.23 g quantitative yield . LCMS method B R 3.24 min M H 473 475 M H 475 477.

EDCI 99 mg 0.52 mmol and HOBt 78 mg 0.58 mmol were added to a suspension of sodium 4 bromo 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylate 0.23 g 0.41 mmol in THF 4 ml . The suspension was warmed gently for 1 minute before the addition of a solution of O R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl hydroxylamine 85 mg 0.58 mmol in THF 1 ml followed by DIPEA 73 l 0.42 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 70 hours poured into ethyl acetate 40 ml then washed sequentially with 0.1M HCl 10 ml saturated NaHCOsolution 10 ml and brine 10 ml . The organic layer was isolated then dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated in vacuo to provide a solid residue. Purification of the residue by flash chromatography Si SPE dichloromethane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 70 30 to 40 60 to 0 100 afforded the title compound as a waxy white solid 0.17 g 68 . LCMS method B R 3.51 min M H 604 606.

A solution of 4 bromo 1 2 fluoro 4 iodo benzyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 2 carboxylic acid R 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethoxy amide 40 mg 66 mol in dichloromethane 1.5 ml was loaded onto a SCX 2 SPE cartridge. The desired compound was eluted from the cartridge with a solution of ammonia in methanol to afford a residue. The residue was further purified by flash chromatography Si SPE ethyl acetate dichloromethane methanol 90 10 to 80 20 afforded the title compound as a pale yellow gum 5 mg 13 . LCMS Method A R 3.51 min M H 562 564 M H 564 566. H NMR CDOD 3.62 2H m 3.89 1H m 3.94 1H dd J 10.2 6.4 Hz 4.05 1H dd J 10.2 3.7 Hz 5.92 2H s 6.63 1H t J 8.0 Hz 7.04 1H s 7.40 1H dd J 8.0 1.6 Hz 7.49 1H dd J 9.7 1.6 Hz 8.29 1H s 8.79 1H s .

