---

title: Plasmonic laser nanoablation methods
abstract: A novel femtosecond laser nano-ablation technique called Plasmonic Laser Nano-Ablation (PLN). The technique takes advantage of surface-enhanced plasmonic scattering of ultrashort laser pulses by nanoparticles to vaporize sub-cellular structures in attoliter volumes. The use of nanoparticles may overcome problems associated with current FLMS techniques and does not rely on heating for nanodisruption. In PLN, the particle acts as a “nano-lens,” restricting laser light to the near-field of the particle, and only photodisrupting structures that are nanometers away. This eliminates the need for a tightly focused beam, while still achieving nanoscale ablation resolution. Moreover, the enhanced scattering around the particles reduces the amount of required laser fluence. A method is provided comprising positioning a nanoparticle in proximity to a surface of a material; irradiating the nanoparticle with a laser tuned close to the nanoparticle's plasmonic frequency; and allowing a near-field effect from the irradiated nanoparticle to photodamage the material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07834331&OS=07834331&RS=07834331
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 07834331
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080801
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 953 316 filed Aug. 1 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 971 377 filed Sep. 11 2007 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was developed with support under Grant Numbers BES 0508266 and BES 0548673 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant Number RO3 CA125774 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

Precision femtosecond laser microsurgery FLMS requires the use of tightly focused near infrared femtosecond laser pulses for the precise manipulation of subcellular structures. To make these submicron ablations femtosecond laser pulses need to be tightly focused with an expensive high numerical aperture lens. The femtosecond pulses provide high peak intensities and rapid deposition of energy into the target ablating material before significant heating of the surrounding target occurs. This may be achieved because the pulse width is shorter than the thermal relaxation time of the target. As such FLMS allows for submicron resolution. This technique however has inherent limitations 1 the target needs to be located with submicron resolution and 2 the light diffraction limits the operation resolution to about half a micron. Many current techniques use highly absorbing metal particles to destroy surrounding tissue through heating effects to explosively melt them. These particles absorb a majority of light and release the energy as heat to the surrounding intercellular components during the heat transfer process denaturing proteins and destroying intracellular components. This photothermal process increases the mean temperature of the exposed tissue in some cases by more than approximately 50 C. which could cause complications and extensive damage in normal tissue.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a method comprising positioning a nanoparticle in proximity to a surface of a material irradiating the nanoparticle with a laser tuned to the nanoparticle s plasmonic frequency and allowing a near field effect from the irradiated nanoparticle to photodamage the material.

In certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a method comprising positioning a nanoparticle in proximity to a surface of a material irradiating the nanoparticle with a low peak power laser pulse obtaining an image of the material irradiating the nanoparticle with a laser tuned to the nanoparticle s plasmonic frequency and allowing a near field effect from the irradiated nanoparticle to photodamage the material.

The present disclosure is based at least in part on the observation that a purely scattering technique using nanoparticles can be harnessed to initiate plasma mediated photodamage to selectively remove material with nanoscale resolution. Such an approach has a number of advantages including among other things extremely precise laser material removal while minimizing undesired heating effects the use of single pulses to ablate and or modify structures which may not be possible using heating effects and the use of low numerical aperture lens which effectively lowers the cost of building a high precision tool and reduces the amount of time needed to focus the laser as the nanoparticles themselves will in essence act like as a high numerical aperture lens.

The methods of the present disclosure according to certain embodiments utilize a novel femtosecond laser nano ablation technique called Plasmonic Laser Nano Ablation PLN . The technique takes advantage of surface enhanced plasmonic scattering of ultrashort laser pulses by nanoparticles to vaporize sub cellular structures in attoliter volumes. The use of nanoparticles may overcome problems associated with current FLMS techniques and does not rely on heating for nanodisruption. In PLN the particle acts as a nano lens restricting laser light to the near field of the particle and only photodisrupting structures that are nanometers away. This eliminates the need for a tightly focused beam while still achieving nanoscale resolution. Moreover the enhanced scattering around the particles reduces the amount of required laser fluence. provides a brief illustration of an embodiment of such a concept.

In certain embodiments PLN also may be used to perform large scale material removal on the nanoscale for example by using high throughput techniques such as but not limited to microfluidic devices. While selective removal of material with nanoscale resolution can be performed using single 100 fs laser pulses using kilohertz pulse rates may provide the ability to modify large surface volumes in extremely short time durations. In certain embodiments well defined structures may be produced by PLN in any solid material independent of excitation wavelength.

The methods of the present invention may provide a number of benefits over traditional ablation techniques. In certain embodiments the methods of the present invention may improve the selectivity for example the methods of the present invention may limited the ablation to a desired area and or reduce the ablation of material which is not desired to be ablated. In certain embodiments the methods of the present invention may allow for the simultaneous imaging and selective material removal as described in detail later. In certain embodiments the methods of the present invention may provide a high throughput photomanipulation process for example the methods of the present invention may be capable of selective material removal for a greater number of samples that traditional ablation techniques in a specified amount of time. Applications of certain embodiments of the methods of the present invention include but are not limited to cancer cell removal transfection DNA RNA protein siRNA drugs blood clot and atherosclerotic plaque removal gene knockout perturb DNA and chromatin study basic biological pathways nanolithographic technique nanomachining protein manipulation and inactivation viral manipulation and bacterial manipulation.

The methods of the present disclosure may be useful in engineering and basic science applications including but not limited to nanomachining nanolithography fast cellular processing for stem cell separation cancer applications tumor removal and apoptosis initiation nanoscale axotomy molecular and genetic manipulation and for both imaging and therapeutic purposes.

The features and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the description of the embodiments that follows.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific example embodiments have been shown in the figures and are herein described in more detail. It should be understood however that the description of specific example embodiments is not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary this disclosure is to cover all modifications and equivalents as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

The present disclosure provides according to certain embodiments a method comprising positioning a nanoparticle in proximity to a surface of a material irradiating the nanoparticle with a laser tuned close to the nanoparticle s plasmonic frequency and allowing a near field effect from the irradiated nanoparticle to photodamage the material.

The present disclosure provides according to certain embodiments a method comprising positioning a nanoparticle in proximity to a surface of a material irradiating the nanoparticle with a low peak power laser pulse obtaining an image of the material irradiating the nanoparticle with a laser tuned to the nanoparticle s plasmonic frequency and allowing a near field effect from the irradiated nanoparticle to photodamage the material.

The method uses Plasmonic Laser Nanoablation PLN in which the large enhancement of laser pulses in the vicinity of nanoparticles is used to selectively remove material with nanoscale resolution. When the laser frequency is tuned to the plasmonic frequency of a nanoparticle the nanoparticle will efficiently collect light from a region significantly greater than its geometrical boundary and scatter it onto the region immediately surrounding the particle. The nanoparticle will act like a nanolens restricting the light to a subwavelength focal region in the particle near field and described by the induced dipole. The intensity of near field scattered wave drops off at a rate approximately equal to a R where a is the particle radius and R is the observation position. The amplified electric field in this region can cause photodamage with nanoscale precision to targets. Reduction in the interaction volume to the nanoscale allows for a substantial reduction in the pulse fluence. Consequentially there will be almost negligible mechanical and thermal effects on surrounding structures and the shock zone will only extend a few nanometers beyond the ablation nano domain sites. This leads to among other things the ability to perform nanoscale photodamage of materials as well as large scale ablation using high throughput techniques.

The lasers suitable for use in the methods of the present invention may be any laser capable of emitting light of a desired wavelength so as to irradiate the nanoparticles useful in the methods of the present invention. Such lasers may be femtosecond picosecond or nanosecond pulse lasers. One example of the lasers useful in the methods of the present invention is a femtosecond Ti sapphire laser system commercially available from SpectraPhysics of Mountain View Calif.

In general suitable nanoparticles may have any desired geometry. For example the nanoparticles may be spherical or anisotropic e.g. rod tube ellipsoid triangle wire rice star shell cage and their clusters . Spherical nanoparticles generally have the lowest overall enhancement. Having sharp edges or irregularities on the particle surface may increase the overall enhancement and especially strong enhancements may be found at the sharp edges. Suitable nanoparticles can be composed of all noble metal types e.g. gold silver and copper or from composites of two or more noble metals which may allow a large range of enhancements and excitation wavelengths. Suitable nanoparticles also may be composed of carbon for example carbon nanotubes single or multi walled fullerenes and carbon dots and other carbon based nanostructures. The nanoparticles may be formed from a single material or two or more materials heterodyne systems or alloys . Nanoparticle geometry size and composition may affect near field scattering properties and can be chosen based on the properties desired and for a particular application. For example gold nanospheres are suited to biological application because among other things they produce cellular poration with low laser fluences and little cell toxicity. Silver nanoparticles on the other hand have a stronger near field scatter cross section then gold but are not as biocompatible and therefore silver nanoparticles may be more suited to applications such as for example nanoablation of solid materials such as but not limited to silicon.

For biological applications the nanoparticle may be targeted to specific cellular sites by conjugating the particle to antibody or peptide mediated receptors subcellular organelles and or DNA and or RNA base pairs. Such nanoparticles may be used to locally disrupt intracellular membranes and molecules in the cell without damaging other intracellular components which offers an extremely precise form of laser surgery. In addition the ability to tune the scattering properties of the nanoparticle allows performance of cellular ablation in the near infrared NIR wavelength regime. NIR light is not absorbed by biological tissues and can penetrate deep into tissue structures which allows for light interaction only at zones mediated by nanoparticles. Mie Theory may be utilized to determine the size of nanoparticle that exhibits the greatest near field scattering enhancement without having any significant heating. Examples of suitable nanoparticles for biological applications include but are not limited to gold nanoparticles and single walled carbon nanotubes. In certain embodiments the nanoparticle may be attached to the material to be ablated by any suitable means known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In some embodiments the methods of the present disclosure may be used for both imaging and therapeutic purposes by for example using the nanoparticles as both a contrast agent and a modification tool. Using low peak power pulses the nanoparticles can be used to enhance imaging and identify tagged areas before modification. By ramping the laser s peak power the particle can then be used for material modification.

Models may be created for single particle systems and particles directly interacting with an underlying substrate. Specifically a 3D Mie model may be developed to observe the magnitude and direction of the dipole field near the nanoparticle as it interacts with an underlying substrate. It is well known that for small spherical gold particles 20 nm diameter in the far field the extinction peak is highly localized at roughly 520 nm wavelength. At this wavelength both the absorption and scattering properties of the particle are very strong. If the observation wavelength is moved off the peak both scattering and absorption decrease dramatically to negligible amounts. As the particle size increases the extinction peak redshifts and broadens. Interesting though is that the absorption peak only slightly redshifts while the scattering peak significantly redshifts moving into the near infrared wavelengths. To show this phenomenon the extinction coefficient with respect to wavelength may be plotted for two different particle sizes in a cytoplasmic solution as shown in 40 nm and 160 nm in diameter. As expected the 40 nm particle exhibits pure dipolar scattering properties peaking approximately at a wavelength of 530 nm. The peak is sharply defined and the full width at half maximum FWHM of the function is approximately 25 nm. As the particle gets larger the dipole peak broadens and redshifts. With the 160 nm particle the dipole peak is shifted to approximately 660 nm and its FWHM is 100 nm. In addition to the dipole peak there is now a secondary peak located at the original wavelength of 530 nm. This peak having a FWHM of 25 nm represents the quadrapole which forms when the excitation light cannot homogeneously polarize the nanoparticle leading to retardation effects. This initial simulation was performed in the far field of the particle where the far field parameters consist of the electric field components that are perpendicular to the radial component E and E.

Thus to determine the appropriate particle size to produce the largest field enhancement at 780 nm we estimated the near field scattering efficiency Q of a gold particle embedded in air as a function of its radius. Qis a measure of the sphere s ability to convert the incident electric field intensity into a near field intensity. This quantity which is proportional to the square of the scattered electric field on the particle surface E is given by

To understand the direction and shape of the scattered electric field in the near field the three dimensional electromagnetic scattering properties of a spherical gold nanoparticle may be mapped. Numerical simulations may be performed to observe the field enhancement around an isolated nanoparticle in a solution of cytoplasm n 1.33 when irradiated with 780 nm light. illustrates the field enhancement due to particle size. The 40 nm diameter particle exhibits pure dipole scattering with a maximum intensity enhancement of 13.5. By increasing the particle radius by a factor of 4 the maximum intensity enhancement approximately doubles. Further observation shows that the two lobes of the dipole are not along the same plane but rather displaced by approximately 30 . This is caused by the presence of the quadrapole. If the particle is irradiated with 520 nm light the scattered light would appear in four distinct lobes. Since the excitation wavelength coincides more with the dipole the scattered light will only occur in two lobes. Though the effect of the quadrapole will still be felt and each lobe will be displaced from the dipolar plane.

In general any material may be modified using the methods of the present invention so long as the material is at least partially solid. For example the solid to be modified may be made in whole or in part from one or more of but not limited to silicon glass polymers plastic graphite ceramic metal and Hafnium. The material may be biological such as for example bone including teeth cells subcellular and extracellular sites atherosclerotic plaques blood clots and connective tissues tumors and the like. Other suitable biological materials include but are not limited to cellular targeting regions for example membrane receptors e.g. antibody ligand peptide mediated subcellular organelles RNA DNA chromatin and proteins.

To facilitate a better understanding of the present invention the following examples of specific embodiments are given. In no way should the following examples be read to limit or define the entire scope of the invention.

Samples were irradiated and imaged using a lab developed system as shown in . An amplified femtosecond Ti sapphire laser system SpectraPhysics MountainView Calif. delivers amplified single laser pulses of 220 fs temporal width at 780 nm wavelength at a 1 kHz repetition rate. An attenuator consisting of a half wave plate and a polarizing cube beam splitter was used to control the delivered laser power. Pulse energies were measured before the focusing system using an energy meter Ophir PL10 . The measured pulse energy transmission through the focusing system was estimated to be 64 by finding the ratio of energy before and after the objective. The sample was mounted onto an x y translational stage. The setup provided simultaneous optical imaging and ablation of the sample through the same objective lens. A long working distance objective lens 0.28 NA 10 Mitutoya was used to focus a linearly polarized laser pulse to a 1 eradius of 3.2 0.2 m at the beam waist. To obtain a homogeneous well defined energy distribution on the target a circular aperture 6.5 mm in diameter was placed in the beam path just before the objective. The spatial profile of the truncated beam originally 8 mm in diameter was not significantly modulated at the sample plane. All experiments were performed in air at atmospheric pressure. The orientation of the laser polarization at the sample plane was varied through the manipulation of the sample. When the laser light was directed orthogonal to the sample the laser polarization was parallel to the substrate surface. For the laser to be directed at a 45 angle with respect to the silicon surface the substrate was mounted onto a standard 45 angle Scanning Electron Microscope SEM block. By rotating the angled sample 90 the electric field was either oriented into p polarized laser light or along s polarized laser light the surface plane. The size of the ellipticity of the irradiation zone was modulated as the sample was angled with respect to the laser. The axis of the beam that was aligned along the angled sample plane was lengthened by a factor 2.

Gold particles were produced according to the Turkevich method in which particles were synthesized by the reduction of HAuClwith sodium citrate. Atomic Force Microscopy AFM Dimension 3100 AFM Digital Instruments and Scanning Electron Microscopy SEM LEOS 1530 were used to measure particle dimensions. Two small diameter near spherical particle types of 80 5 nm and 50 5 nm 1.14 ellipticity were developed in house. Particle sizes above 100 nm were purchased from British Biocell International. AFM imaging was operated in tapping mode in air using triangular shaped silicon cantilevers 40 N m spring constant and 300 kHz resonance frequency Budget Sensors . Nanoparticles were found to have negligible absorption properties at 780 nm which was measured using spectrophotometry.

A silicon 100 wafer bandgap energy of 1.14 eV having a 21 native oxide layer as measured by ellipsometry was cut into a 5 5 mm piece and washed using a four step process sulfuric acid distilled water acetone and methanol. The wafer was ultrasonicated in each solution for 5 min and stored in methanol until use. A 6 L aliquot of colloidal gold 2R 150 nm was deposited onto the surface. The sample was annealed in air at 120 C. for 5 min. Using this method isolated particles could be deposited on the substrate surface. Before and after irradiation samples were characterized using SEM and AFM.

Anti EGFR Gold Bioconjugates were prepared using the 50 nm colloidal gold solution. Briefly to prevent competitive binding of citrate ions with antibodies 2 mL gold nanoparticles 10particles mL were centrifuged at 2 000 G and resuspended in 2 mL 20 mM HEPES buffer pH 7.47 Fisher Scientific . 2 L of anti EGFR monoclonal antibodies clone 225 Sigma were purified using 100 k MW centrifugal filter tubes Centricon and resuspended in 1.98 mL of 20 mM HEPES buffer. The gold solution is added dropwise to the dilute antibody solution which is kept under constant stirring to allow for even coating of the nanoparticles and allowed to interact for 45 minutes. 400 L of 2 polyethyleneglycol 4 kDa MW Sigma was added to the mixture to prevent aggregation and the solution was centrifuged at 300 G for 45 min. The centrifugation process is necessary to remove unbound antibodies from the solution which will competitively bind to EGFR during the labeling process. The bioconjugate pellet was resuspended in 300 L phostphate buffered saline PBS Sigma without Ca and Mg and stored at 4 C. until use.

MDA MB 468 epithelial breast cancer cells American Type Culture Collection were cultured in Dulbecco s modification of Eagle s medium DMEM Gibco supplemented with 10 Fetal Bovine Serum Sigma 100 U mlpenicillin Sigma and 100 g mlstreptomycin. The cells were maintained at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COatmosphere. Cells are cleaved from the flasks with a solution of 0.05 w v trypsin Sigma and seeded 3.7 10cells onto glass well Petri dishes MaTek treated with fibronectin and irradiated 14 hr later. Before laser exposure cells were washed 3 2 mL DPBS and incubated in 100 L of gold bioconjugate solution for 20 min at 37 C. After nanoparticle incubation cells were washed 3 2 mL DPBS to remove unbound bioconjugates from the solution and resuspended in 2 mL DPBS. Cells were immediately used in phototherapy experiments to minimize nanoparticle endocytosis. provides a dark field and multiphoton image of MDA MB 468 cells labeled with anti EGFR gold bioconjugates.

We demonstrate the fabrication of nanostructures ablated on silicon 100 by the plasmonic scattering of 780 nm 220 fs laser pulses in the near field of gold nanospheres. Gold nanospheres of 150 nm diameter were deposited onto a silicon surface and irradiated with a single laser pulse. We studied the effect of laser polarization on the morphology of ablated nanostructures and estimated the minimum fluence for plasmonic nanoablation.

Silicon is a material having a low overall femtosecond laser ablation threshold similar to one for metal materials such as gold. A common method for estimating the single shot ablation threshold of silicon 100 Fis through the linear relationship between the ablation depth hand the average fluence F 

Ablation craters generated at laser fluences lower than about 1 J cmare mediated by the optical penetration depth. At 780 nm wavelength the dominant mechanism of electron excitation is single photon absorption due to the photon energy 1.6 eV having greater energy than the silicon bandgap 1.14 eV . Since absorption is linear the ablation profile will resemble the intensity distribution of the incident light. As the laser fluence is increased above 1 J cm thermal effects begin to affect the surrounding lattice. Carrier conduction contributions become important and the electron driven heat penetration depth defines the ablation depth.

Before the onset of true ablation i.e. removal of material irradiation of silicon with a low fluence laser pulse can result in surface modification. Below the ablation threshold the molten layer will resolidify either into an amorphous or re crystallized state. The amorphous region marks the lowest input energy needed to achieve modification. The molten layer re solidifies faster than the re crystallization time scale leaving it in an amorphous state. The single shot modification threshold for silicon 100 was estimated to be about 186 mJ cm.

The incident pulse was directed such that it was orthogonal to the substrate surface with the E field along the short axis of the elliptical pulse. The application of a laser pulse having a Gaussian intensity distribution allows for a broad range of laser fluences to be studied in a single experiment. A few identifiable regions of surface modification are observable. In increasing distance from irradiation center these regions are 

The gold nanoparticle ablation threshold between 20 to 25 mJ cmwas determined which was defined as the laser fluence below which the whole spherical structure of the particle remains intact. This value is in good agreement with the recently reported damage threshold value of 15.5 mJ cmfor nanospheres of 38 nm in diameter irradiated by 400 nm 100 fs laser pulses. In those studies picosecond x ray scattering measurements revealed that partial material removal from the poles of the nanoparticle occurs for fluences above 15.5 mJ cm. Below 20 25 mJ cm some material removal may be expected to occur reducing the overall size of the particle in regions of intense scattering. In cases where the plasmonic ablation threshold of silicon is lower than the ablation threshold of the gold particle nanocrater structures may form underneath the particle itself for fluences down to the threshold value.

We studied the effect of laser polarization on the morphology of ablated nanostructures. presents AFM images and cross sectional profiles of three nanocraters obtained using different cases of laser polarizations. In each case the scattering pattern in the particle near field was directly imprinted into the silicon surface. When the incident radiation E field is directed at a 45 angle into the silicon substrate surface p polarized laser light only one lobe of the dipolar scattering region interacts with the underlying substrate leading to the formation of a single circular crater. In the relative fluence interacting with the particle was 88 mJ cm. A crater having 100 nm diameter and 53 nm maximum depth was generated. Images of craters produced by laser polarizations parallel to the substrate surface when the substrate is angled 0 and 45 to the incident irradiation are shown in respectively. In each of the cases when the laser polarization is parallel to the substrate surface the generated craters have a double lobed crater structure which follows the dipolar scattering pattern of the nanoparticle. Resolidified gold is found at the ends of each dipolar crater structure after ablation. In the gold can be clearly visualized and is represented as the peak s surrounding the craters in the cross sectional profiles.

For each polarization orientation the minimum threshold fluence for plasmonic nanoablation was measured. As shown in the maximum depth of generated nanocraters for a broad range of laser fluences is measured using AFM and plotted against the average fluence that interacted with the particle at that point. Determination of the relative fluence at the point of particle ablation is nontrivial in those cases where sample irradiation was at an angle. Each nanocrater rests on a distinct plane some distance above the beam waist which can be determined according to its location on the substrate. Since the sample is located at a distance above the Rayleigh range the spot size interacting at the sample plane will change according to height. Each distinct plane will have a unique spot size that can be found using Equation 1. Determination of the relative fluence at the nanocrater location results from projecting each nanocrater onto its corresponding ablation plane. A linear fit to data points follows the relationship given in Equation 3. Extrapolation of the linear fit line to zero provides the enhanced single shot ablation threshold. For p polarized laser light at 45 the required fluence for surface ablation is reduced to 8.2 2.9 mJ cm. Ablation thresholds determined for laser polarizations parallel to the substrate surface when the substrate is angled 0 and 45 s polarized laser light to the incident irradiation are 27.5 4.3 mJ cmand 46.7 16.3 mJ cmrespectively. The errors were estimated based on the covariance of the data with respect to the linear fit. In Eq. 3 both and ln F have an associated error. From these errors we can calculate a set of linear fits that will provide a range of possible ablation thresholds.

The near field enhancement factor is a measure of the particle s ability to efficiently collect light from a cross section larger than its geometrical cross section and scatter it into a nanoscale region necessary for material ablation. Nedyalkov et al. previously determined the near field enhancement factor by finding the ratio of the lasers fluences required to achieve the same ablation depth with and without nanoparticles present on the substrate. The use of the standard single shot ablation threshold as found from hmeasurements is proposed herein for estimating the nanoparticle near field enhancement factor. The experimental near field enhancement factor is estimated using the relationship For the p polarized irradiation of a particle at a 45 angle the relationship gives an experimental near field enhancement of 23.1 7.6. Normal incidence and s polarized light at 45 gives enhancements of 6.9 0.6 and 4.1 1.3 respectively.

To validate these measurements we calculated the near field intensity based on the solution of the boundary value problem for a spherical particle on a flat semi infinite substrate. It is assumed that an incident plane wave with 780 nm wavelength propagates along the z coordinate. The angle of irradiation and direction of the electric field are varied according to polarization type. The particle is 150 nm in diameter. Additional multi reflections between the particle and the substrate which can lead to further intensity variation along the surface are taken into account. For a transparent particle on the substrate irradiated with normal incidence the intensity absorbed by the substrate can be estimated by is the following relationship 

Two sets of calculations were performed to determine the effect of the incident pulse energy absorption by the silicon.

For normal incidence and the s polarization cases larger experimental values are found than those presented theoretically. A number of factors could be contributing to the increased enhancement. A large part of the extra enhancement contributed to the experimental results for normal incidence is believe to be due to increased surface reflectivity causing a larger number of reflections from the silicon surface to interact with the particle. The reflected waves off the surface will directly interact with the particle. In the s polarized at 45 irradiation case most of the wave is reflected at an angle away from the particle. Only a small part of the reflected wave interacts with the particle. A slight increase in enhancement beyond the theoretically calculated value is seen. Other factors could include other nonlinear effects due to the ultrashort laser pulses or ultrasmall confinement of light or phase changes in the gold particle during irradiation.

Borosilicate glass is a dielectric material that exhibits similar femtosecond laser ablation properties as that of biological materials making it a model substrate to study the plasmonic ablation of tissue in a controlled environment. We studded a borosilicate glass surface with a broad distribution of particle arrangements ranging from single 80 nm particles to micron sized aggregates. Three effects were studied 1 minimum threshold fluence necessary for plasmonic nanoablation in the single and multi particle cases 2 effect of cluster orientation with respect to laser polarization on minimum threshold and crater morphology 3 effect of cluster size and geometry on minimum threshold.

Transparent materials do not absorb radiation from the visible to near infrared portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. As is such optical breakdown in transparent materials requires incident fields of high peak intensities exceeding 10W cm. Tightly focused femtosecond laser pulses provide the necessary intensities to initiate nonlinear absorption processes of the incident laser energy. Large numbers of electrons in the medium are excited by the high flux of photons since the electrostatic force felt by the valence electrons becomes large enough to excite the bound electrons out of the Coulomb potential. A sufficiently high electron density plasma results and material vaporization occurs. The laser induced plasma absorbs photon energy via nonlinear ionization mechanisms and ablation i.e. material ejection occurs when the density of free conduction band electrons reaches a critical density. The minimum fluence necessary to initiate ablation is called the optical breakdown threshold and materials experience permanent modification.

Since femtosecond pulses are of high intensity optical breakdown is intrinsically different from that of longer pulse ablation. Seed free electrons are generated independent of the initial electron concentration in the material. This is not true when ablating materials with pulses greater than 10 ps where material impurities provide the source for seed electrons. Also since the pulse duration is shorter than the material heat conduction time electrons are unable to transfer absorbed energy to the surrounding lattice thus there is no change in the electron lattice dynamics during the ablation process. Only the intense heating and rapid expansion of material at the focal volume account for the vaporization of the bulk material.

We found the single shot ablation threshold of borosilicate glass in air to be F 1.88 0.08 J cm which agrees well with literature. This threshold was determined exactly as was presented with the silicon data.

After ablation by a single 780 nm 220 fs laser pulse the surface of the borosilicate glass only exhibits one type of surface ablation all ablations were on the nanoscale. Since dielectric ablation by femtosecond pulses is plasma mediated rather than generated through rapid heat deposition no micron sized ablation craters will be found at higher fluences. In the ablation of Si 100 this was not the case at high fluences thermal effects begin to affect the surrounding lattice generating dipolar craters surrounded by a region of surface melt and splash zones. The gold nanoparticle ablation threshold of 20 to 25 mJ cm which we define as the laser fluence below which the whole spherical structure of the particle remains intact was again verified in the glass experiments.

To determine the minimum threshold necessary for plasmonic nanoablation the maximum depth of generated nanocraters is measured using atomic force microscopy and plotted against the relative fluence that interacted with the particle at that point. again illustrates that the data fit shows a linear between the crater depth and the logarithm of laser fluence. As with silicon nanoablation extrapolation of the linear fit line to zero provides the enhanced single shot ablation threshold . Using this technique we find a single particle threshold fluence of 226.8 mJ cm which correlates to an optical enhancement of 7.4.

Using the same theoretical model as presented in the silicon data we found a theoretical enhancement for an 80 nm gold nanosphere resting on a semi infinite dielectric substrate irradiated by 780 nm laser light. The simulation was run without the formation of a low density plasma during irradiation. The Poynting vector along the substrate surface indicates an enhancement of 1.67. This value as in silicon experiments is lower than the found experimental enhancement. Again it is reasonable to assume the formation of a time dependent low density plasma during irradiation which increase the degree of enhancement.

Crater morphology and the single shot ablation threshold depend upon aggregate size geometry and orientation to the laser polarization. Since much of the scattered waves are confined within an aggregate generated craters are direct imprints of the aggregate size and geometry. Crater profiles exhibit nanoarchitecture describing the location of the individual particles in the cluster. As with single particles it is again feasible to elucidate the aggregate ablation threshold via the linear relationship between the single shot ablation depth and the logarithm of the relative laser fluence. However the relationship is only valid when comparing craters generated by particle aggregates of the same number of particles and geometry in addition to the same orientation to the laser polarization. This has been verified experimentally and can be described theoretically using the dipole dipole interaction model

The minimum fluence necessary for ablation by two and three particle aggregates oriented at a 45 angle to the laser polarization has been studied. The two particle aggregate ablation threshold is 132 mJ cm yielding a near field enhancement of 12.2. We find a threshold of 52 mJ cmfor the three particle aggregate yielding a near field enhancement of 28.8. compares the ablation threshold values for the single two and three particle aggregate cases two particle and three particle clusters. As is evident the ablation threshold decreases with an increasing number of particles found within an aggregate. The increased enhancement is a direct result of the constructive interference of all the individually scattered fields within the cluster. This generates hotspots regions of strong scattered wave interaction of which the location depends upon the aggregate orientation to the laser polarization.

The enhanced single shot ablation threshold relationship is valid only for particle aggregates having the same geometry and orientation with respect to the laser polarization. To verify this lets look at a brief experimental example. We make the statement that the ablation process is highly dependant on the laser polarization direction. Lets observe two independent three particle clusters irradiated with a relative fluence of 0.47 J cm where one cluster is oriented in the direction of the polarization and the other is at a 45 angle to the laser polarization. The cluster positioned along the polarization direction has a depth of 10.3 nm while the other cluster has a depth of 2.5 nm. It can be concluded that the cluster positioned along the direction of polarization will have a greater enhancement leading to a lower ablation threshold value.

The interaction of closely spaced particles i.e. particle coupling has a strong effect on the location and width of the plasmon resonance. For a simple understanding of particle coupling the dipole dipole interaction model is used to describe the plasmonic interaction of two closely spaced nanospheres. As was previously described the surface plasmon response is confined along the particle surface. When certain conditions are met the system becomes resonant and the particle strongly interacts with the incident light. Now a second particle is placed within the oscillating field of the first particle. Upon polarization of the conduction electrons by the incident field additional forces act upon both particles. First let us observe a particle pair oriented such that the long axis is orthogonal to the incident electric field. In this case the repulsive force of the surface charges is enhanced leading to a higher resonance frequency and effectively blue shifting the plasmon resonance to lower wavelengths. The opposite effect occurs when the electric field is parallel to the long axis of the particle pair. In this case the plasmon band shifts and stronger enhancement will be seen in the near infrared. As a quick note particle interaction has been seen out to separation lengths of 5 particle diameters.

The near field scattering is greatly affected by particle aggregation. With particle aggregation the near field enhancement becomes a function of all the individually scattered wavelets from particles in the aggregate. Essentially primary particles in the aggregate electromagnetically couple exhibiting additional extinction features at longer wavelengths where the surface plasmon is strongly decreased in single particle irradiation. At longer wavelengths scattering processes dominate the plasmon band where absorption still dominates in shorter wavelengths but will again be negligible in the NIR regime. Because the superposition of scattered waves is responsible for the near field enhancement aggregate size will have a finite limit beyond which the maximal optical enhancement saturates. This limit will depend upon particle cross talk and deconstructive interference effects.

Borosilicate glass experiments show that nanoparticle clusters are extremely important when considering plasmonic nanosurgery in cells. The constructive interference of all the scattered waves significantly increases the overall enhancement of the cluster. Dark field and multi photon luminescence images in show that the nanoparticles across the cell surface are randomly distributed forming various sizes of clusters. Rather the particles dot the surface randomly and the distribution ranges from single particles to micron sized clusters. Furthermore the receptors to which the nanoparticles are attached are not stationary rather they are fluid and move with great ease across the surface. This uneven distribution across the surface is advantageous when considering plasmonic laser nanosurgery. The clusters will create large localized enhancements at the cell plasma membrane. The generation of nanosized plasmas will create pores in the bilipid layer effectively killing the cell.

Both labeled and unlabeled MDA MB 468 cells were irradiated with single femtosecond laser pulses of 40 m diameter. The fluence was varied from 40 mJ cmto 1.5 J cmto determine the cell death threshold for both labeled and unlabeled cells. Preliminary images were taken to show the cellular detail before irradiation. 5 minutes after irradiation an image of the cell was again obtained. The cells were incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour after irradiation to ensure the cell fully concludes the death process. To confirm cell death a 2 M solution of Calcein AM Sigma Aldrich was added to the cells. After a 1 hour interaction time cells were imaged using an epifluorescence microscope. Unlabeled cells had a cell death threshold value of approximately 375 mJ cm. The threshold level was reduced 7 8 times in the labeled cells to approximately 50 mJ cm. presents a standard epiluminescence image of cells killed by the corresponding threshold fluences. Dotted white circles mark regions of irradiation. Only cells in the irradiation zone were affected showing that the extent of interaction is highly localized.

MDA MB 469 epithelial breast cancer cells immersed in a buffered saline medium were labeled with 50 nm gold nanospheres functionalized with Anti EGFR at a concentration of 10particles per cell. Approximately 20 cells per experiment were imaged as a series of 32 images each 1 m apart through the depth of the cell layer at a laser power of 180 W. To ensure membrane integrity the cells were immersed in a fluorescent probe fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugated dextrane 50 L 10 kDa FITC Dextran 25 mg ml Sigma . The dye is impermeable to live cells with intact membranes as is shown in . Onto the center plane of the cell layer 1.5 mW laser light 760 nm 80 MHz was scanned for 10 sec during which the cells were scanned approximately 7 times. In each scan cycle individual pixels were exposed for 2.5 s corresponding to the application of 200 overlapping pulses per pixel. Poration i.e. loss of membrane integrity as shown in was confirmed by the influx of the fluorescing dye into the cytosol.

To prove that photodisruption of the plasma membrane is due to the near field enhancement effect instead of heating we calculated heating properties of the 50 nm gold particles as shown in . For these calculations the particle optical and heating properties were modeled using Mie Theory and a two temperature heat transfer model with surface conductance respectively. At 760 nm wavelength the particle is approximately 370 times more efficient in scattering light in the near field than in absorbing incident energy which has efficiency slightly less than 5 of the particle geometrical cross section. Applying the absorption cross section to the heating model we find that the maximum water and particle temperatures in a single pulse are 8K and 3K respectively. To understand the cumulative heating effects we also studied multiple pulse heating at 80 MHz. At the end of each pulse 12.5 ns the temperature drops significantly to near negligible heating effects. Over 80 pulses water temperature reaches only 1K which is not enough to induce thermal damage to the cells.

If the photodisruption is a near field enhancement effect the peak laser intensity in the particle near field must be understood. Experimentally a near field enhancement of 35 the ratio between the average powers needed to photodisrupt labeled and unlabeled cells is found which corresponds to a laser intensity of 0.2 10W cmin the particle near field. This value corresponds to the intensity necessary to create free electrons in water to induce photochemical damage. In addition field emission from the nanoparticle surface generated by the large enhancement as measure by Plech et al. may be contributing more free electrons to the low density plasma causing cellular photodamage.

Nano ablation was shown in three materials silicon borosilicate glass and MDA MB 468 cells and corresponding threshold values correlated remarkably well with theoretical calculations.

To model ablation processes of dielectric materials in a controlled environment nanoparticles were deposited onto borosilicate glass. From these studies four very important conclusions can be drawn i Crater depth and size is dependent on laser fluence ii Clusters more effectively enhance the plasmonic scattering of light than single particles iii Pit depth is not dependent on cluster size but rather cluster shape and orientation to the laser polarization a Those cluster in line with laser polarization produce larger enhancement b Clusters having a very organized structure i.e. rod produce larger enhancement and iv There is an upper limit in the cluster size for plasmonic laser ablation to be effective. When this limit is reached destructive interference begins to become more prevalent.

Using the linear relationship between the pit depth and the logarithm of the laser fluence ablation thresholds were determined for single particles and clusters. Constructive interference of scattered waves in clusters generated larger enhancements significantly lowering ablation thresholds compared to single particles. The orientation of the clusters to the laser polarization and their shape also significantly effected plasmonic enhancement. With more organized shapes i.e. rods plasmonic enhancement was enhanced. Through this analysis it can be shown that a three particle cluster aligned in a rod shape will produce greater enhancement that a four particle cluster in a spherical arrangement. If this rod shape is aligned along the direction of the polarization a further enhancement will be seen. This process was explained utilizing the dipole dipole interaction model. Though as cluster sizes increases a saturation point is reached and deconstructive interference becomes more prevalent. This is generally seen in clusters greater than ten particles.

The cluster effect was greatly utilized in the cell study. It was shown that even with a light labeling of the cell i.e. 100 500 particles the cell death threshold is significantly reduced. This is possible due to the inhomogeneous distribution of EGF receptors on the cell surface creating clusters. Since it is desirable to make PLN a cellular technique these initial results were compared against other photoselective methods utilizing nanoparticle heating which is shown in Table 1.

For 30 nm gold nanoparticles irradiated with wavelengths near their plasmon resonance the total deposited energy varied from 7 200 to 800 times more depending upon pulse width. The shorter the pulse width the lower the fluence required due to greater amounts of energy being deposited into the particle over shorter time scales. In addition the technique fares extremely well versus other engineered nanostructures. Spherical nanoshell composite particles require 10 000 times more total fluence and gold nanorods require 3 600 times more fluence.

In addition the use of small particles and near infrared light allows for use of the technique deep within a tissue structure. Near infrared light is not known to drive any natural photo chemical processes. Thus any occurred processes are solely generated by the aforementioned technique.

Purified SWCNTs manufactured by the high pressure CO process were provided by Carbon Nanotechnologies Incorporated Houston Tex. with less than 15 ash content by weight. The as received SWCNTs were further purified using modified oxidation and ultrasonication processes. Specifically SWCNTs were oxidized in a box furnace for 14 hours at 275 C. followed by reflux in 2.5 M HNOfor 36 hours. The resulting mixture was filtered through a 100 nm pore size polycarbonate filter rinsed and re suspended in N N dimethylmethanamide DMF . Ultrasonication of the SWCNT DMF mixture at a concentration of 50 mg L for 2 hours was performed to cut the SWCNTs into shorter length. Centrifugation 5000 rpm 45 mins was used to remove larger unreacted impurities from the solution. Transmission Electron Microscope TEM image in shows that the SWCNTs remain in a bundled state due to the substantial van der Waals attraction 950 meV nm . The diameter of the bundles varies between 5 25 nm. A 2 L aqueous sample of SWCNT suspension was deposited onto a glass wafer which was subsequently heated to 120 C. for 20 minutes on a hot plate to evaporate the DMF. Consequently only a single layer of randomly distributed SWCNTs was left on the wafer. The density of SWCNTs on the glass wafer could be adjusted by the amount of solution deposited. Borosilicate glass wafers were used with surface roughness less than 1 nm from Precision Glass and Optics Santa Ana Calif. . The wafers were ultrasonically cleaned with methanol prior to use.

To determine the laser ablation threshold of SWCNTs the minimum local laser fluence were measured where SWCNTs started to disappear. Based on Gaussian spatial profile of the laser beam with a 1 elaser beam radius w the radial distribution of laser fluence is presented above in Equation 3. For measured radius of disappearance of SWCNTs r the local laser fluence is given by

To estimate the ablation thresholds additional experiments were performed for a variety of average laser fluences ranging from 1.74 J cmto 0.1 J cm. At laser energies as low as 1.12 J cm direct femtosecond laser ablation of glass was not observed even though at this fluence the nanoablation of glass could still be obtained. We analyzed the laser exposed regions using AFM and measured the radius of circles indicating the disappearance of carbon nanotubes the border of the nanoablated regions on glass and the border of the femtosecond laser ablation craters on glass. presents the measured radius data as a function of the local average fluence. Linear fits to data points based on Equation 4 reveals the linear relationship between the squared radius of the ablation crater and logarithm of laser fluence. The extrapolation of the linear fit to r 0 results in average threshold fluences for glass ablation glass nanoablation and ablation of SWCNTs of 2.05 0.1 J cm 460 38 mJ cm and 25 6 mJ cm respectively. The measured ablation threshold of bundled SWCNTs is about 10 times lower than the theoretically calculated value for the ablation of single SWCNTs 250 mJ cm . The reason for this discrepancy might be due to the fact that the theoretical value for single SWCNT was computed based on the estimated data for graphite. The calculated threshold fluence for SWCNTs is indeed similar to that for graphite 130 250 mJ cm . On the other hand it is also possible that these lower values of measured ablation thresholds are a result of a possible plasmonic enhancement between the bundled nanotubes.

Notably the threshold fluence for glass nanoablation is approximately 4.5 times smaller than the measured threshold for fs laser ablation of glass. We may attribute this nanoablation phenomenon to a possible local field enhancement near the carbon nanotube bundles. We have previously showed that the near field enhancement of fs laser pulses can be used to overcome the diffraction limit of traditional laser ablation for patterning silicon at the nanoscale using gold nanoparticles. Enhancement of electromagnetic fields near the surface of nanoparticles is a result of the excitation of localized surface plasmons as well as the lightning rod effect in metallic nanostructures. Surface plasmons are collections of electrons that oscillate at the interface between the metal and its surrounding dielectric material.

A number of experimental studies detected surface plasmons in multi wall carbon nanotubes MWCNTs bundles of SWCNTs and purified SWCNTs using electron energy loss spectroscopy EELS . These studies showed two main peaks identified as surface plasmons in the ranges of 5 7.5 eV and 21 27 eV. Careful EELS measurements by Pitchler et. al. showed some additional peaks at energies below 3.5 eV. Bose later attributed these peaks to possible surface plasmons related to the collective azimuthal motion of electrons on the surface of the nanotubes. More recent experiments demonstrated the nanoantenna operation of MWCNTs as well as their photon coupling capacity near 2.3 eV using a fluorescent microbead detection.

Despite these studies providing some insight on the plasmonic features of carbon nanotubes our present understanding of their collective electronic excitation modes or plasmons is still limited. Especially considering the mixed metallic and semiconducting nature of SWCNT bundles further studies are needed to elucidate the exact nature of the near field enhancement phenomena observed in this study.

We studied the properties of fs laser ablation of SWCNTs. We found that the average fluence threshold for ablation of SWCNTs in a bundle state is 25 mJ cm. This value is 5 10 times smaller than the measured fs laser ablation threshold for graphite and 10 times smaller than that calculated for the ablation of single nanotubes. At an average laser fluence of 460 mJ cm we observed nanoablation of glass directly beneath the bundled SWCNTs and creation of micrometers long nanolines. The nanoablations are believed to be due to near field enhancement of the electric field near the bundled SWCNTs. This enhancement by carbon nanotubes could potentially be used in a number of applications. It could possibly be used for lithographic patterning on various materials for electronic as well as for biological applications. Recently Chen et al. developed a new technique to interface biocompatible CNTs with a cell surface by carbohydrate receptor interactions the modified CNTs are nontoxic and bind to specific sites on cell surfaces. Through this method it might be possible to use the near field enhancement of SWCNTs to kill cancer cells by irradiating SWCNT labeled cancer cells with ultrafast laser pulses. The advantage of the near field enhancement is that it only damages atto litter volumes around the SWCNTs. In addition to the nanoscale localization of laser pulses the nonthermal nature of fs laser ablation can be exploited to minimize destruction of surrounding healthy cells.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contain certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are encompassed within the spirit of this invention as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

The following references are all incorporated by reference to the extent they provide information available to one of ordinary skill in the art regarding the implementation of the technical teachings of the invention.

