---

title: Wheeled-vehicle dolly
abstract: A dolly is particularly adapted to lift, support and maneuver a four-wheel vehicle. The dolly comprises an adjustable, generally U-shaped frame assembly for each vehicle tire. The frame assembly has pairs of reciprocally opposed first and second frame members adapted to be positioned adjacent opposite sides of a tire and to lift the vehicle by way of the tires. A castering wheel assembly supports the vehicle on a ground surface. The frame assembly is pivotably mounted on a tractor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08016303&OS=08016303&RS=08016303
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08016303
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081218
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 132 337 filed Jun. 10 2008 for a Wheeled Vehicle Dolly the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to a dolly for lifting supporting and maneuvering a wheeled motor vehicle. The invention also relates to a wheel handler having opposed horizontally reciprocable engaging elements.

Deployment of military equipment requires loading of four wheel motor vehicles onto a roll on roll off ship for transport and unloading at a destination. Rapid deployment of equipment may be limited by the speed at which vehicles can be loaded and stowed below deck and later unloaded.

A motor vehicle is driven under its own power onto a transport ship and below deck to the hold. In the hold the vehicle is positioned under its own power and parked in close proximity to other vehicles. Duration of the loading operation is dependent on the number of vehicles loaded types of vehicles loaded configuration of local dock and ramp facilities configuration of the ship and on the experience and driving ability of the vehicle driver. The more closely the vehicles are parked the more the operation is dependent of the driver s ability. Unloading is likewise dependent on another driver s experience and ability. Damage to the ship structure and deck is always a concern.

There is a need in the art of shipping military vehicles for an improvement in loading and maneuvering wheeled vehicles for close stowage aboard ship.

A dolly is particularly adapted for lifting and maneuvering a vehicle with tires. The dolly comprises an adjustable generally U shaped frame assembly. The U shaped frame assembly has a base member and pairs of reciprocally opposed first and second frame members adapted to be positioned adjacent and to contact opposite sides of a tire. Each frame member has 

 iii. a roller support bracket assembly mounted on the tire support bar including a horizontally elongated roller.

A jack engages first and second frame members and is positioned to draw the opposed first and second frame members together to contact the elongated rollers with a tire and lift the tire with the vehicle attached thereto. A telescoping arm attached at a first end to the U shaped frame and is attached to a pivot shaft.

 i. A vertically oriented pivot shaft provides pivoting of the pivot assembly in the horizontal plane.

 ii. A tractor body provides attachment and support for the pivot shaft and support of the pivot assembly and U shaped frame assembly attached thereto.

 iii. Propulsion means is attached to the tractor body for motion of the tractor assembly on the ground surface.

The dolly is particularly adapted for loading a four wheel vehicle from a dock via a ramp onto a ship deck carrying the vehicle below deck and maneuvering the vehicle in the hold for stowage. The dolly is also particularly adapted for removing a four wheel vehicle from close stowage in a ship hold.

The invention is described with reference to the drawing wherein numerals in the written description correspond to like numbered elements in the several figures. The drawing discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention and is not intended to limit the generally broad scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

The dolly consists of a lift and support mechanism a telescoping arm and a tractor. Four lift and support mechanisms are attached to the telescoping arm which is pivotably mounted on the tractor. The telescoping arm is retracted for clearance and maneuvering. In the retracted configuration the dolly is driven under the four wheel vehicle. The telescoping arm is then extended to position a U shaped frame assembly around each tire. This positions an elongated horizontally disposed roller on each side of each tire. The elongated roller axle is parallel to and below the vehicle axle to which the tire is attached. The vehicle is lifted by drawing the rollers together. The rollers rotate as they lift the tires onto the rollers. The four wheel vehicle is lifted with the tires. Castering wheels support the weight of the lifted four wheel vehicle. The tractor moves the castering wheel supported four wheel vehicle in any direction. It can be positioned in close proximity to a bulkhead or to another vehicle. Turning of the vehicle is independent of the turning radius of the vehicle and depends on the castering wheels. The four wheel vehicle is set down on a parking spot. The U shaped frame assemblies are disengaged and the dolly withdrawn from under the vehicle in any available direction.

A pair of opposed reciprocating frame members indicated by first frame member and second frame member are positioned adjacent opposite sides of left tire . Likewise first frame member and second frame member are positioned adjacent opposite sides of right tire . Each pair of opposed reciprocating frame members has cooperating sub components. Each of first frame member and and second frame member and has a horizontally elongated tire support bar. First frame members and have tire support bar and respectively. Second frame members and have tire support bar and respectively. Each tire support bar is supported on a ground surface by castering wheels and on one side and castering wheels and on the other. The castering wheels swivel in the ground surface plane providing 360 directional movement with a small turning radius. Roller support brackets are mounted on the tire support bar and roller support brackets are mounted on the tire support bar . Roller support brackets are mounted on the tire support bar and roller support brackets are mounted on tire support bar . Elongated rollers and are horizontally mounted on axles attached to the roller support brackets. Rollers and rotate on roller axles and . Roller axles for rollers and are not shown in the drawing. The elongated rollers and the roller axles and on which they rotate are horizontally elongated and are parallel to vehicle axle . Two rollers per bracket have been found to work well in a prototype. One roller per bracket is sufficient. Three vertically staggered rollers per bracket also work well. All rollers are on horizontally elongated axles positioned parallel to the vehicle axle .

A telescoping base member comprises base member section and base member section on one side and base member section and base member section on the other side. Jack is functionally attached to section and and moves section telescopically in and out of section directed and constrained by guide . Jack in the drawing is a hydraulic cylinder with extending arm . The term jack is intended to include equivalent alternatives including a pneumatic cylinder jack screw ratchet and the like. It is seen in that base member section base member section first frame member and second frame member make up a U shaped frame assembly . The corresponding members on the right make up a second U shaped frame assembly . The motion of jack with extending arm causes the reciprocal and opposed movement of first frame member and second frame member toward each other and away from each other. The movement is constrained by guide on the left side and guide on the right side.

The left horizontally elongated tire support bar is attached to the right horizontally elongated tire support bar through attachment bar comprising telescoping segments and . Segment is an extension of tire support bar . Segment moves telescopically with segment . Hydraulic jack provides the motive force for in and out telescoping motion of sections and . Segment telescopes with segment . Hydraulic jack provides motive force with extendable arm for in and out telescoping motion. Segment is an extension of the right tire support bar and is attached to it. Jack is hydraulically operated and acts with extendable arm to extend or retract the two sections and

Hydraulic lines control valves and solenoid controls are carried in a hydraulic hose box not shown with hydraulic hoses not shown extending to the hydraulic jacks in the left and right U shaped frame assemblies. Attachment bar provides support for pivot shaft through which it is attached to telescoping arm on tractor . Pivot shaft is also mounted on and attached to attachment bar .

Four U shaped frame assemblies coordinate to lift the four vehicle tires. This is achieved with similar lift components and coordinated supply of hydraulic fluid to the hydraulic jacks. The left horizontally elongated tire support bar is attached to the right horizontally elongated tire support bar through attachment bar comprising telescoping segments and . Segment is an extension of tire support bar . Segment telescopes with segment . Hydraulic jack with an extendable arm not shown provides in and out telescoping motion. Segment telescopes with segment . Hydraulic jack and extendable arm provide for in and out telescoping motion. Segment is an extension of the right tire support bar and is attached to it. Jack is hydraulically operated and acts to extend or retract the two sections and . Likewise sections and are telescoping by means of a hydraulic jack similar to jack .

Reference is made to which is a perspective view of a tractor and telescoping arm assembly. The telescoping arm is joined to attachment bar by inserting pivot shaft shown in into receiver block positioned at each end of telescoping arm . Hydraulic hoses not shown provide hydraulic fluid to drive the hydraulic jacks. The hoses are connected to tank pressured by battery powered pump both not shown inside the tractor body . The telescoping arm is rotated in the horizontal plane about pivot shaft and extended or contracted with hydraulic jack and extendable arm .

The tractor travels on treads propelled by drive wheels . Each drive wheel is driven by an electric motor not shown in the tractor body . Each tread is independently moveable to turn and steer the tractor. Both treads can be moved forward or backward in tandem. One tread can be moved and the other not moved. Or the treads can be moved in opposite directions. The tractor is steered forward backward to the left to the right or pivoted by direction of motion of the treads . The telescoping arm can be pivoted about pivot shaft or the treads can be rotated in opposite directions to pivot tractor . Pivoting of the treads is coarser control accomplished by differential control of drive wheels and treads . Pivoting of telescoping arm on pivot shaft is finer control accomplished by hydraulic control.

The four drive wheel electric motors are driven by batteries not shown contained in two battery boxes . Control interface is a control panel providing for a battery on off switch for control of the hydraulic system including the pump and supply tank and for steering the tractor. Control interface also provides for connection of a battery charger not shown in battery box to a 115 AC volt receptacle not shown . Vent slots in battery box allow heat to vent from the battery charger. Vent slots in tractor body allow heat to vent from an electric motor and pump.

Right angle support brackets are attached to the battery box and through battery box to the tractor body . Four hydraulic lift jacks are attached at one end under the right angle support brackets and at the other end to tractor castering wheels . Hydraulic supply hoses supply the four hydraulic lift jacks to lift the tractor body and treads to support the tractor on tractor castering wheels . The tractor and tractor treads can be lifted off of the ground surface. In this case tractor castering wheels are the sole support of the tractor on the ground surface . The tractor can then be moved by means of tractor castering wheels . This is advantageous when a deck or ramp is wet or sandy and the treads slip on the surface. It may also be advantageous to tow the tractor up a ramp with a cable and winch. It is also of use if the tractor is towed with a tow vehicle.

Right angle support brackets also serve as lifting pads. Lifting pad eyes are fixedly attached to right angle support bracket and battery box to provide a point for lifting the tractor with a crane not shown . Lifting pad eyes are also used to tie the tractor down during transport.

Telescoping arm is shown in the retracted position. Telescoping arm is mounted on tractor through pivot shaft . Telescoping arm is pivotably attached at each end to an attachment bar . Attachment bar is attached at each end to a U shaped frame assembly . Each U shaped frame assembly is supported on pairs of castering wheels and

The dolly moves a four wheel vehicle in any direction so that it can be stowed or recovered from a hold. The omni directional moving ability of the dolly eliminates the limitation of the turning radius of the vehicle steering mechanism that is a difficulty in parallel parking. Since vehicles can be moved sideways or in any other direction along the deck any open path to the vehicle in the hold is sufficient to extract it from the hold. The vehicle is moved under electric power. The vehicle engine is not started. These allows for quick quiet and exhaust gas free movement. As a result there is no vehicle exhaust gas in the hold.

The tractor travels on treads preferably non slipping polymer treads. In the alternative the tractor is driven by omni directional wheels such as Mecanum wheels. This is accomplished by removing treads and replacing drive wheels with Mecanum wheels. Each of four Mecanum wheels is driven by its own electric motor. Independent control of each of the four electric motors must be provided for full utility.

Omni directional wheels are taught in U.S. Pat. No. 3 789 947 to J. F. Blumrich incorporated herein by reference. Mecanum wheels are taught in U.S. Pat. No. 3 876 255 for Wheels for a Course Stable Selfpropelling Vehicle Movable in any Desired Direction on the Ground or Some Other Base to B. E. Ilon incorporated herein by reference.

Once lifted the weight of the wheeled vehicle is supported by castering wheels. It is preferred that there be two to four pairs of castering wheels per tire. The term castering wheels is intended to include equivalents thereof. Equivalents include all the many variations of castering wheels powered castering wheels and air bearings. Urethane is an excellent choice for the material of construction for castering wheels.

It was found in the dolly constructed that friction between the polymer treads and the deck was sufficient to provide braking. In an extreme braking condition the vehicle wheels would maintain contact with the deck and the vehicle tires and brakes would supplement braking of the dolly. In the alternative castering wheels with brakes can be used. In another alternative brake pads are attached to the bottom of the tractor body to press against the deck.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

