---

title: Solvent-assisted layer formation for imprint lithography
abstract: A solid layer is formed by applying a multiplicity of discrete portions of a fluid composition onto a surface of an imprint lithography substrate, and allowing the discrete portions of the composition to spontaneously spread on the surface of the substrate to form a substantially continuous layer. The composition includes a solvent and a solid or a solvent and a polymerizable material. The composition can be a solution or a dispersion. At least some of the solvent is evaporated from the composition, and a solid layer is formed (e.g., polymerized or dried) on the substrate. The solid layer is substantially free of interstitial voids.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08142702&OS=08142702&RS=08142702
owner: Molecular Imprints, Inc.
number: 08142702
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080616
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e 1 of U.S. provisional application 60 944 586 filed Jun. 18 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This work was supported by NIST ATP Award No. 70NANB4H3012 thus the U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention.

Nano fabrication involves the fabrication of very small structures e.g. having features on the order of nanometers or smaller. One area in which nano fabrication has had a sizeable impact is in the processing of integrated circuits. As the semiconductor processing industry continues to strive for larger production yields while increasing the circuits per unit area formed on a substrate nano fabrication becomes increasingly important. Nano fabrication provides greater process control while allowing increased reduction of the minimum feature dimension of the structures formed. Other areas of development in which nano fabrication has been employed include biotechnology optical technology mechanical systems and the like.

An exemplary nano fabrication technique is commonly referred to as imprint lithography. Exemplary imprint lithography processes are described in detail in numerous publications such as United States Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0065976 entitled Method to Arrange Features on a Substrate to Replicate Features having Minimal Dimensional Variability United States Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0065252 entitled Method of Forming a Layer on a Substrate to Facilitate Fabrication of Metrology Standards and U.S. Pat. No. 6 936 194 entitled Functional Patterning Material for Imprint Lithography Processes all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The imprint lithography techniques disclosed in the aforementioned publications and patent include forming a relief pattern in a polymerizable layer and transferring a pattern corresponding to the relief pattern into an underlying substrate. The substrate may be positioned upon a motion stage to obtain a desired position to facilitate patterning thereof. To that end a template is employed spaced apart from the substrate with a formable fluid composition present between the template and the substrate. The fluid composition is polymerized to form a solidified layer that has a pattern recorded therein that is conforming to a shape of the surface of the template in contact with the composition. The template is then separated from the solidified layer such that the template and the substrate are spaced apart. The substrate and the solidified layer are then subjected to processes to transfer into the substrate a relief image that corresponds to the pattern in the solidified layer.

Spin coating techniques are sometimes used to form a layer of polymerizable material on a substrate before imprinting. However the layer that results from spin coating can yield a non uniform residual layer after imprinting for example if the template feature density is non uniform. Furthermore spin coating techniques can result in particle contamination of at least one side of a substrate e.g. a wafer if double sided imprinting is needed.

Drop on demand dispensing methods can be used to form liquid layers on a substrate that result in a more nearly uniform residual layer after imprinting. However gases trapped in the interstitial regions between drops of polymerizable liquid on the substrate can inhibit spreading and coalescence of the drops on the substrate. Defects such as interstitial voids can result in the polymerized layer when the polymerizable material forms a non continuous layer on the substrate before imprinting. The amount of time required to expel gas from the interstitial regions can reduce throughput of an imprint lithography process.

Spin coating and drop on demand methods can include adding a surfactant to a polymerizable material to enhance release performance from a template. Additionally at the fluid spread front the surfactant can interact with the substrate. In some cases the presence of a surfactant can limit the spreading of the material through for example a pinning effect.

In one aspect an imprint lithography method includes applying a multiplicity of discrete portions of a fluid composition onto a surface of an imprint lithography substrate and allowing the discrete portions of the composition to spontaneously spread on the surface of the substrate to form a substantially continuous layer. The composition can include a solvent and a polymerizable material or a solvent and a solid. At least some of the solvent is evaporated from the fluid composition and a solid layer substantially free of interstitial voids is formed on the substrate. Forming the solid layer can include polymerizing the polymerizable material. The solvent can include R X R where Rincludes fluorine and carbon R includes an alkyl group and X is a divalent atom.

Referring to a system to form a relief pattern on a substrate is shown. Substrate may include materials such as for example fused silica quartz silicon organic polymers siloxane polymers borosilicate glass fluorocarbon polymers metal plastics gallium arsenide mercury telluride hardened sapphire and any composite thereof. Additionally substrate may include one or more layers e.g. dielectric layer metal layer semiconductor layer planarization layer and the like. Substrate may be coupled to a substrate chuck . As shown substrate chuck is a vacuum chuck however substrate chuck may be any chuck including but not limited to vacuum pin type groove type or electromagnetic as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 873 087 entitled High Precision Orientation Alignment and Gap Control Stages for Imprint Lithography Processes which is incorporated herein by reference. Substrate and substrate chuck may be supported upon a stage . Further stage substrate and substrate chuck may be positioned on a base. Stage may provide motion about the x and y axes.

Spaced apart from substrate is a patterning device . Patterning device includes a template having a mesa extending therefrom towards substrate with a patterning surface thereon. Further mesa may be referred to as a mold . Mesa may also be referred to as a nanoimprint mold . In a further embodiment template may be substantially absent of mold . Template and mold may be formed from materials including but not limited to fused silica quartz silicon organic polymers siloxane polymers borosilicate glass fluorocarbon polymers metal plastics gallium arsenide mercury telluride hardened sapphire and any composite thereof. Additionally mold may be formed from several materials e.g. indium tin oxide diamond like carbon MoSi sol gels and the like. As shown patterning surface includes features defined by a plurality of spaced apart recesses and protrusions . However in a further embodiment patterning surface may be substantially smooth and or planar. Patterning surface may define an original pattern that forms the basis of a pattern to be formed on substrate . Template may be coupled to a template chuck template chuck being any chuck including but not limited to vacuum pin type groove type or electromagnetic as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 873 087. Further template chuck may be coupled to an imprint head to facilitate movement of template and therefore mold .

System further includes a fluid dispense system . Fluid dispense system may be in fluid communication with substrate so as to apply polymerizable material thereto. System may include any number of fluid dispensers and fluid dispense system may include a plurality of dispensing units therein. Polymerizable material may be applied to substrate using any known technique e.g. drop dispense spray coating spin coating dip coating chemical vapor deposition CVD physical vapor deposition PVD thin film deposition thick film deposition and the like. Typically polymerizable material is disposed upon substrate before the desired volume is defined between mold and substrate . However polymerizable material may fill the volume after the desired volume has been obtained.

Referring to system further includes a source of energy coupled to direct energy along a path . Imprint head and stage are configured to arrange mold and substrate respectively to be in superimposition and disposed in path . Either imprint head stage or both vary a distance between mold and substrate to define a desired volume therebetween that is filled by polymerizable material . After the desired volume is filled with polymerizable material source produces energy e.g. broadband ultraviolet radiation that causes polymerizable material to solidify and or cross link conforming to the shape of a surface of substrate and patterning surface defining a patterned layer on substrate . Patterned layer may include a residual layer and a plurality of features shown as protrusions and recessions . In some cases a thickness of the residual layer is between about 0 nm and about 100 nm. The lateral or critical dimension or width of protrusion can be between about 5 nm and about 500 m with a spacing or width of recession of about 5 nm to about 500 m between protrusions. A height of protrusions is between about 0 and 500 nm. System may be regulated by a processor that is in data communication with stage imprint head fluid dispense system and source operating on a computer readable program stored in memory .

The above mentioned may be further be employed in imprint lithography processes and system referred to in U.S. Pat. No. 6 932 934 entitled Formation of Discontinuous Films During an Imprint Lithography Process U.S. Pat. No. 7 077 992 entitled Step and Repeat Imprint Lithography Processes U.S. Pat. No. 7 179 396 entitled Positive Tone Bi Layer Imprint Lithography Method and United States Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0211754 entitled Method of Forming Stepped Structures Employing Imprint Lithography all of which are incorporated by reference herein. In a further embodiment the above mentioned may be employed in any known technique e.g. photolithography various wavelengths including G line I line 248 nm 193 nm 157 nm and 13.2 13.4 nm contact lithography e beam lithography x ray lithography ion beam lithography and atomic beam lithography.

Discrete portions of a fluid composition can be applied to an imprint lithography substrate to form a multiplicity of discrete portions on a surface of the substrate. The multiplicity can be a pattern or a random distribution of discrete portions. The composition can be a mixture e.g. solution or dispersion of a solvent and a solid a solvent and a polymerizable material or any combination thereof. The polymerizable material can be in the solid or liquid state. In some cases it is desirable for the solvent to have a high rate of evaporation a low surface tension or both.

After application to the substrate the discrete portions spread e.g. spontaneously spread or merge on the surface of the substrate expelling gas in the interstitial regions between the discrete portions to form a substantially continuous layer of the fluid composition on the substrate. At least some of the solvent in the composition is removed by evaporation. For a composition including a solvent and a polymerizable material the polymerizable material is polymerized to form a layer of polymerized material on the surface of the substrate. For a composition including a solvent and a dissolved or dispersed solid a solid layer is formed on the substrate as the solvent evaporates. The substantially continuous liquid layer yields a solid layer substantially free of interstitial voids.

A multiplicity of discrete portions of a fluid composition can be applied to a substrate in a variety of methods including inkjet dispensing and spray coating. A viscosity of the composition can be chosen based in part on the method of application. For inkjet dispensing for example a viscosity of the applied liquid can range up to about 200 cP. Spray coating for example in an atomization spray process can be used to apply fluid compositions with viscosities up to about 2000 cP. Atomization spraying can include use of an ultrasonic spray head e.g. a liquid atomizer with gas nozzle for directional flow . Ultrasonic spray heads are advantageously clog resistant as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 135 357 entitled Apparatus for atomizing high viscosity fluids which is incorporated by reference herein.

The multiplicity of discrete portions can be a uniform or non uniform regular or irregular or random distribution of the discrete portions. In some embodiments the discrete portions form a pattern such as a circle rectangle or square. In other embodiments the discrete portions can be arranged non uniformly or randomly. A volume of some or all of the discrete portions can be pre determined. Factors used to determine a desired volume of a discrete portion include final imprint feature density e.g. feature density of mold residual layer thickness and the amount of solvent in the composition. The volume of a discrete portion can be for example between about 1 pL and about 100 L between about 2 pL and about 10 L between about 3 pL and about 1 L between about 4 pL and about 100 nL between about 5 pL and 10 nL or between about 6 pL and about 1 nL. In some cases it is advantageous for the volume of most or all of the discrete portions to be substantially the same. In other cases it is advantageous for the volume of some of the discrete portions to be different. The discrete portions can be spaced substantially equidistant or at one or more pre determined distances from one another on the substrate. depict some exemplary multiplicities of discrete portions of fluid composition on a substrate .

The spacing and volume of the discrete portions can be selected to achieve the desired coverage after the portions have spread to form a substantially continuous layer on the substrate. The desired coverage can be of various geometric shapes and sizes for example a rectangular area of about 26 32 mm or a circular area with a diameter of about 65 mm or about 90 mm. In some embodiments a depth of the substantially continuous layer is between about 5 nm and about 1 m. In some cases a substantially uniform depth of the fluid composition on the surface of the substrate is desirable. In certain cases it is desirable that a depth of the composition in one area of the substrate exceeds the depth of the composition in another area of the substrate. For example as depicted in when mold has a non uniform feature density the density of the discrete portions of the fluid composition applied to the substrate can be selected to yield a non uniform depth which yields a substantially uniform residual layer after imprinting.

In some cases spreading of the fluid composition can be limited by the application of a more viscous fluid composition about the perimeter of a multiplicity of discrete portions of the fluid composition. For example as depicted in discrete portions of fluid composition on substrate can be surrounded or partially surrounded by discrete portions of another more viscous fluid composition . The discrete portions of the more viscous fluid composition can function as a barrier to the fluid composition and inhibit spreading of the composition beyond the edge or perimeter defined by the more viscous composition. In some embodiments the more viscous fluid composition is polymerizable material or solid with a lower weight percentage of solvent and the fluid composition is a mixture including for example the same polymerizable material or solid and a higher weight percentage of the solvent. The more viscous fluid composition inhibits spreading of the less viscous fluid composition beyond the edges or perimeter defined by the more viscous fluid composition. After evaporation of the solvent the substantially continuous layer consists essentially of the polymerizable material or solid and the composition of the solid layer formed on the substrate is substantially homogeneous.

After the discrete portions spread on the surface of the substrate some or substantially all of the solvent is allowed to evaporate from the fluid composition. In some cases the time allowed for evaporation of a solvent from a fluid composition in discrete portions on a substrate ranges from about 1 200 seconds or from about 2 60 seconds. Solvents are advantageously chosen to reduce or minimize de wetting of the substrate during evaporation of the solvent.

The time between application of the fluid composition to the substrate and solidification of the layer on the substrate e.g. initiation of polymerization allows for evaporation of some or substantially all of the solvent in the fluid composition. To increase throughput efficiency in imprint lithography processes a first multiplicity and one or more additional multiplicities of discrete portions of fluid composition can be applied to a substrate before the first multiplicity is solidified. Applying multiplicities of discrete portions in a sequential manner allows time for the fluid composition to spread and for the desired amount of solvent to evaporate without limiting overall throughput of the process.

For example as depicted in multiplicities A P are applied to the substrate sequentially. The time allowed for the fluid composition to spread and the solvent to evaporate as desired is such that multiplicity A is applied to the substrate multiplicity B is applied to the substrate and multiplicity A is solidified while multiplicity C is applied to the substrate. The process continues such that multiplicity B is solidified while multiplicity D is applied multiplicity C is solidified while multiplicity E is applied etc. The sequence and time delay between application and solidification is selected based in part on the evaporation rate of the solvent. In some cases two three or more multiplicities are pre dispensed on the substrate before the first multiplicity is solidified.

In some embodiments the solid layer formed on the substrate is used to facilitate image transfer and some or all of the solid layer is intentionally removed from the substrate during processing after solidification. As used herein resist material refers to a polymerizable material or a solid layer formed from the polymerizable material at least a portion of which is intentionally removed from the substrate. Forming a resist material on an imprint lithography substrate includes applying a fluid composition including solvent and a polymerizable material on a surface of the substrate allowing the composition to spontaneously spread to form a substantially continuous layer on the substrate evaporating at least some of the composition contacting the composition with a template or a mold and polymerizing the polymerizable material between the template and the substrate. Polymerizing the polymerizable material can include for example exposure of the material to heat or electromagnetic radiation such as ultraviolet radiation. The template is removed from the polymerized material after polymerization and the polymerized or resist material remains fixed to the substrate. The resulting resist material on the surface of the substrate can be used as a mask for image transfer as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 259 102 entitled Etching Technique to Planarize a Multi Layer Structure which is incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 307 118 entitled Compositions to Reduce Adhesion Between a Conformable Region and a Mold which is incorporated by reference herein lists some exemplary resist materials. Resist materials can include vinyl ethers e.g. triethylene glycol divinyl ether tri 4 vinyloxybutyl trimellitate bis 4 vinyloxybutyl adipate vinyl ether vinyl ether terminated polyester polymer organic modified silicates acrylates e.g. isobornyl acrylate n hexyl acrylate diacrylates e.g. ethylene glycol diacrylate 1 6 hexanediol diacrylate methacrylates epoxies thiolenes e.g. 1 2 bis 2 mercaptoethoxy ethane isocyanurates or any combination thereof along with optional additives such as cross linkers initiators e.g. thermal initiators photoinitiators and surfactants.

In one example a polymerizable material includes about 20 80 wt isobornyl acrylate IBOA about 0 50 n hexyl acrylate n HA about 10 15 ethylene glycol diacrylate EGDA and about 1 5 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenyl propan 1 one. IBOA is available from Sartomer Company Inc. of Exton Pa. and is available under the product name SR 506. n HA provides flexibility to the polymerized material and reduces the viscosity of the bulk material in the liquid phase to range of about 2 9 cP. n HA is available from the Aldrich Chemical Company of Milwaukee Wis. EGDA is a cross linking component that contributes to the modulus and stiffness buildup as well as facilitates cross linking of n HA and IBOA during polymerization of the bulk material. 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenyl propan 1 one is a photoinitiator available from Ciba Specialty Chemicals of Tarrytown N.Y. under the trade name DAROCUR 1173. The initiator is responsive to a broad band of ultra violet radiation generated by a medium pressure mercury lamp. In this manner the initiator facilitates cross linking and polymerization of the components of the bulk material. One embodiment of this polymerizable material includes about 55 wt IBOA about 27 wt n HA about 15 wt EGDA and about 3 wt of the initiator. Another embodiment of this polymerizable material includes about 47 wt IBOA about 25 wt n HA about 25 wt EGDA and about 3 wt of the initiator. These embodiments have a viscosity of about 4 cP.

In another example a polymerizable material includes about 0 50 wt GENOMER 1122 about 20 80 wt IBOA about 10 50 wt 1 6 hexanediol diacrylate and about 1 5 wt 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenyl propan 1 one. GENOMER 1122 is an aliphatic urethane acrylate available from Rahn USA Corporation of Aurora Ill. 1 6 hexanediol diacrylate is available from UCB Chemicals Smyrna Ga. To provide improved wetting characteristics of this material additional fluorinated acrylates such as 1H 1H perfluoro n decyl acrylate may be included to lower the contact angle of the material. This fluorinated acrylate is available from Exfluor Research Corporation Round Rock Tex. under the tradename C10ACRY. The viscosity of this polymerizable material is approximately 11 cP. One embodiment of this polymerizable material includes about 21 wt GENOMER 1122 about 56 wt IBOA about 20 wt 1 6 hexanediol diacrylate and about 3 wt of the initiator.

In another example a polymerizable material with a viscosity of about 21 cP includes about 50 wt IBOA about 10 wt GENOMER 1122 about 3 wt DAROCUR 1173 about 25 wt SR833S and about 12 wt PHOTOMER 8127. SR833S tricyclodecane dimethanol diacrylate is a low viscosity difunctional acrylate monomer that is polymerized by free radicals available from Sartomer. PHOTOMER 8127 is available from Cognis GmbH.

In some embodiments the solid layer formed on the substrate is used for a purpose other than image transfer. That is the solid layer formed on the substrate is intended to remain fixed to the substrate. As used herein a functional material refers to a solid or a polymerizable material or a solid layer formed from the solid or the polymerizable material on a substrate for a purpose other than image transfer. A functional material can be applied to a substrate to provide a layer with desired characteristics such as electrical conductivity on at least a portion of the substrate. In some embodiments functional materials include dielectric materials metals and semiconductors.

When the functional material is formed from a polymerizable material applying a mixture e.g. a dispersion or solution of the polymerizable material and a solvent to a substrate facilitates spreading of the polymerizable material on the substrate. After evaporation of at least some of the solvent the remaining fluid composition which may consist essentially of the polymerizable material can be contacted by a template and solidified by for example thermal baking or ultraviolet radiation while still in contact with the template. In some instances substantially all of the solvent is removed before polymerization. In other instances only a portion of the solvent is removed before polymerization such that the mixture retains a desired amount of solvent during polymerization to yield a porous material. Upon eventual loss of the solvent the regions occupied by the solvent may become pores in the functional material. These pores can be instrumental in lowering the dielectric constant of a material in the fabrication of low dielectric materials. In some embodiments a residual amount of solvent may remain in a functional material after polymerization. In other embodiments the solidified functional material may be substantially solvent free.

U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0081557 entitled Low k dielectric functional imprinting materials which is incorporated by reference herein describes some polymerizable functional materials including various silicon containing materials that can be in the form of polymers or oligomers. Suitable organic polysilica include i silsesquioxanes ii partially condensed alkoxysilanes e.g. partially condensed by controlled hydrolysis tetraethoxysilane having a number average molecular weight of about 500 to 20 000 iii organically modified silicates having the composition RSiOand RSiO where R is an organic substituent and iv partially condensed orthosilicates having the composition SiOR. Silsesquioxanes are polymeric silicate materials of the type RSiOwhere R is an organic constituent. The silicon containing materials can include the element silicon in an amount greater than about 10 wt or greater than about 20 wt of the polymerizable fluid composition.

The polymerizable functional material can also include one or more pendant functional groups such as epoxy groups ketone groups acetyl groups vinyl groups acrylate groups methacrylate groups and combinations thereof. Some forms of organic polysilica are of relatively low molecular weight and can include two or reactive groups per molecule. Such organically modified silicates are available under the trade name ORMOCER available from Micro Resist Technology GmbH Berlin Germany . These materials can be formed through the controlled hydrolysis and condensation of organically modified silanes such as alkyltrialkoxysilanes.

In an example a nanoimprinting process can be used to fabricate organic photovoltaic solar cells from polymerizable functional material. In an imprinting process the P material can be chosen from several types of electron donating conjugated polymers such as polythiophene derivatives polyphenylene vinylene derivatives and poly thiophene pyrrole thiophene benzothiadiazole derivatives. The main chain conjugated backbones of these polymers may be unaltered. The side chain derivatives can be altered to incorporate reactive groups including acrylates methacrylates thiols vinyls epoxies and combinations thereof which can crosslink under UV exposure or heat. In some embodiments the N material is selected from fullerene derivatives including carbon nanotubes. Fullerenes can be organically modified to attach reactive groups such as thiophene for electro polymerization and reactive groups such as acrylates methacrylates thiols vinyls epoxies and combinations thereof which crosslink under UV exposure or heat. Fullerene derivatives also can be imprinted by adding small amount of crosslinkable binding materials.

A solution or dispersion of resist or functional material in certain solvents allows rapid spreading of the solution or dispersion to form a substantially continuous liquid layer on the surface of the substrate as well as rapid and substantially complete filling of features in a mold or template. Discrete portions of the solvent diluted material can be placed as desired on a substrate to yield a substantially uniform residual layer even when the mold or template has a non uniform feature density. Certain solvents also reduce minimize or prevent interstitial gas trapping that can occur in some drop on demand processes with more viscous fluid compositions thereby increasing throughput and reducing defectivity. Thus selection of a solvent with a desirable combination of properties such evaporation rate surface tension and ability to solubilize or disperse a chosen solid or polymerizable material yields the surprising and unexpected combination of the advantages of spin coating methods as well as drop on demand coating methods without some or all of the associated disadvantages.

A solvent used to solubilize or disperse a solid or polymerizable material for imprint lithography is advantageously high in purity substantially metal ion free and does not leave a residue or re deposit after evaporation. Solvents which are safe non flammable and or environmentally friendly are especially advantageous. Desirable properties of the solvent may be based on properties of the polymerizable material. For instance the boiling point of the solvent can be chosen such the solvent is more volatile than the polymerizable material. In some cases the boiling point of the solvent can be less than about 150 C. or less than about 100 C. In some cases a solvent with a relatively low boiling point also has a relatively high vapor pressure. A relatively low boiling point relatively high vapor pressure or a combination thereof allows solvent evaporation at ambient temperatures in imprint lithography processes.

One example of a class of solvents particularly suitable for resist materials includes fluorinated ethers with the formula R X R in which Rincludes carbon and fluorine X is a divalent atom such as oxygen and R is an alkyl group. Rcan include fluorinated or perfluorinated carbons. Examples of fluorinated ethers include A methyl nonafluorobutyl ether B ethyl nonafluorobutyl ether and C 2 trifluoromethyl 3 ethoxydodecafluorohexane shown below. FC FC O CH

Solvents such chloroform xylene and chlorobenzene are particularly useful for forming dispersions and solutions of functional materials. For a functional material in the form of a sol gel suitable solvents include an aqueous mixture of one or more alcohols such as propanol.

In some embodiments the fluid composition includes about 0 99.8 wt solvent or about 5 50 wt solvent. The ratio of solvent to the solid or polymerizable material can be chosen based on surface tension viscosity and rate of evaporation of the solvent as well as the viscosity or solubility of the solid or polymerizable material and desired viscosity and spreading rate of the mixture including the spreading fluid front viscosity. Materials dissolved or dispersed in solvents with lower surface tension tend to spread further than the same materials dissolved or dispersed in solvents with higher surface tension. If two solvents have similar surface tension and viscosity the solvent that evaporates more slowly allows greater spreading of dissolved or dispersed materials. In an example a mixture including 50 wt of solvent B ethyl nonafluorobutyl ether spreads to cover about 25 more surface area than the same material diluted with 50 wt of solvent A methyl nonafluorobutyl ether .

Other factors that affect choice and amount of solvent include method of application distance the discrete portions of fluid composition travel between the applicator and the substrate environmental conditions temperature humidity etc. under which the discrete portions are applied time allowed for evaporation of the solvent after application of the discrete portions to the substrate and desired thickness of the solidified layer.

The processibility of a functional material that is an insoluble solid can be enhanced by forming a fluid composition e.g. dispersion that includes the solid and a solvent. Examples of insoluble functional materials include inorganic substances metal containing particles such as TiO and fullerenes and other forms of carbon including carbon nanotubes. The composition is applied to a surface of a substrate. The surface of the substrate can be planar or non planar. For example as shown in the substrate can be a patterned layer formed by nanoimprint lithography. Discrete portions of the fluid composition can be applied to the surface of the substrate . The discrete portions spread to form a substantially continuous layer on the surface of the substrate. Evaporation of the solvent leaves a substantially continuous solid layer of the functional material on the surface of the substrate. The solid layer can be substantially planar or can conform to a shape of the surface of the substrate.

In an exemplary process that includes functional material that is soluble in a solvent and functional material that is insoluble in a solvent nanoimprinting is used to pattern an N type material on a substrate in the fabrication of an organic photovoltaic cell. The N type material can be for example an insoluble functional material such as TiOin a sol gel formed with water and 2 propanol. A patterned layer can be formed by solidifying the TiOsol gel between a substrate and a mold. Another layer of functional material can be formed on the patterned TiOlayer. A solid precursor such as poly 3 hexylthiophene can be dissolved in a solvent such as chloroform xylene or chlorobenzene. Discrete portions of the solution can be applied to the surface of the TiOlayer. After the discrete portions merge or spread to form a substantially continuous layer and the solvent is evaporated a solid layer of poly 3 heyxlythiophene remains on the TiOlayer and functions as a P type material.

A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

