---

title: Restriction endonuclease enhanced polymorphic sequence detection
abstract: Provided is an improved method for the detection of specific polymorphic alleles in a mixed DNA population. The method comprises enriching the relative percentage of a given polymorphic allele that is exponentially amplifiable by PCR. Also provided are methods for selectively enriching target nucleic acid, for example, fetal nucleic acid in a maternal sample. In the case of detecting fetal nucleic acid in a maternal sample, a restriction enzyme is introduced that can discriminate between the alleles of a polymorphic site. Preferably, the maternal allele is digested and nucleic acid comprising the paternal allele is relatively enriched.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08652780&OS=08652780&RS=08652780
owner: Sequenom, Inc.
number: 08652780
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080326
---
This patent application is a national stage of international patent application number PCT US2008 058317 filed on Mar. 26 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 908 167 filed on Mar. 26 2007 entitled RESTRICTION ENDONUCLEASE ENHANCED POLYMORPHIC SEQUENCE DETECTION. The entire content of each of these patent applications hereby is incorporated by reference herein including all text drawings and tables in jurisdictions providing for such incorporation.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted via EFS Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Dec. 7 2009 is named SEQ68US.txt and is 72 183 bytes in size.

Provided herein are methods for detecting specific alleles in a mixed nucleic acid sample. The methods can be used to detect the presence or absence of fetal nucleic acid in a maternal sample.

The analysis of circulating nucleic acids has revealed applications in the non invasive diagnosis monitoring and prognostication of many clinical conditions. For example for prenatal applications circulating fetal specific sequences have been detected and constitute a fraction of the total DNA in maternal plasma. The diagnostic reliability of circulating DNA analysis depends on the fractional concentration of the targeted sequence the analytical sensitivity and the specificity. The robust discrimination of sequence differences e.g. single nucleotide polymorphisms or SNPs between circulating DNA species is technically challenging and demands the adoption of highly sensitive and specific analytical methods.

Current techniques to detect sequence differences in a DNA sample include allele specific PCR restriction digest and Southern blot hybridization restriction endonuclease mediated selective PCR REMS PCR and competitive PCR methods involving the use of fluorescent detection probes. The currently available techniques present several disadvantages. For allele specific PCR it is often difficult to design assays with a high degree of allele specificity Nasis et al. 2004 April 50 4 694 701 . Restriction digest Southern blot methods require higher amounts of DNA template than the method provided herein and lack the sensitivity to detect polymorphic sequences comprising a low relative proportion of total DNA. Restriction endonuclease mediated selective PCR REMS PCR has the drawback of requiring a thermostable restriction enzyme that cleaves the wild type allele. REMS PCR is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 261 768 which is hereby incorporated by reference. Use of the technique may not always be possible and this requirement limits the general utility of the REMS PCR approach. Competitive PCR lacks the sensitivity to detect polymorphic sequences comprising a low relative proportion 

In addition similar methods utilizing methylation differences between DNA species for example US Patent Application Publication No. 20070059707 entitled Methods for prenatal diagnosis of chromosomal abnormalities which is hereby incorporated by reference are not effective at low copy numbers of genomic DNA.

The invention in part provides sequence specific cleavage of nucleic acid to selectively enrich for a particular target nucleic acid. Polymorphic loci are chosen such that only one allele at the polymorphic locus is cleaved by a given cleavage agent such as a restriction endonuclease. Oligonucleotide primer pairs designed to flank the polymorphism allow amplification of the polymorphic region or amplicon by amplification e.g. PCR . Prior to or during amplification nucleic acid samples are incubated with the given restriction endonuclease. In a preferred embodiment the cleavage agent is introduced prior to amplification. This embodiment results in cleavage of the polymorphic allele or sequence comprising the polymorphic allele that is recognized by the restriction endonuclease if this allele is present. Cleavage of any template nucleic acid within the amplicon sequence i.e. between primer pairs prevents PCR amplification of this template. Therefore if only one allele of a polymorphism is recognized by the cleavage agent and the corresponding nucleic acid sequence is cleaved by the restriction endonuclease the relative percentage of the amplifiable alternate polymorphic allele is increased in a manner dependent on the efficiency and specificity of the restriction endonuclease activity. After amplification the amplified polymorphic alleles can be genotyped or otherwise detected or discriminated by any method known in the art e.g. using Sequenom s MassARRAY technology or by RT PCR .

In one embodiment the invention in part provides a method for detecting the presence or absence of a target allele at a polymorphic locus in a sample wherein the sample contains nucleic acid which comprises cleaving a nucleic acid comprising a non target allele at or near the polymorphic locus with a cleavage agent that recognizes and cleaves a non target allele but not the target allele amplifying uncleaved nucleic acid but not cleaved nucleic acid and analyzing the amplification products from the previous step to determine the presence or absence of the target allele. In a related embodiment the method also comprises first obtaining a sample suspected of comprising nucleic acid with target and non target alleles. In a preferred embodiment the method is used to distinguish between two individuals for example between a mother and a fetus wherein the sample comprises both maternal and fetal nucleic acid. Optionally the method may be used to quantify the target nucleic acid relative to the non target nucleic acid.

The invention in part provides methods for enriching for target nucleic acid comprising cleaving nucleic acid comprising a non target allele with a restriction endonuclease that recognizes the nucleic acid comprising the non target allele but not the target allele and amplifying uncleaved nucleic acid but not cleaved nucleic acid wherein the uncleaved amplified nucleic acid represents enriched target nucleic acid relative to non target nucleic acid. In one embodiment the methods may be utilized to determine the presence or absence of target nucleic acid in a background of non target nucleic acid. In a related embodiment the amplification products can be analyzed to diagnose monitor or prognose a clinical condition. Likewise the amplification products can be analyzed to assist in the diagnosis prognosis or monitoring of a clinical condition or chromosomal abnormality. Nucleic acid may be selected such that it comprises an allele having a polymorphic site that is susceptible to selective digestion by a cleavage agent for example.

The methods are useful for analyzing nucleic acid including but not limited to DNA RNA mRNA oligonucleosomal mitochondrial epigenetically modified single stranded double stranded circular plasmid cosmid yeast artificial chromosomes artificial or man made DNA including unique DNA sequences and DNA that has been reverse transcribed from an RNA sample such as cDNA and combinations thereof. In one embodiment the method is used to detect or selectively enrich RNA.

The nucleic acid may also be characterized as target nucleic acid or non target nucleic acid wherein target nucleic comprises the target allele and non target nucleic acid comprises the non target allele. In one embodiment the target nucleic acid comprises the paternal allele and the non target nucleic acid comprises the maternal allele. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid is cell free nucleic acid or partially cell free nucleic acid. In certain embodiments the target nucleic acid is apoptotic or partially apoptotic. In certain embodiments the target nucleic acid is less than 2000 1200 1100 1000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 80 70 60 50 40 or less base pairs in length.

The methods may be used to detect target nucleic acid in a biological sample. Preferably the biological sample is from an animal preferably a human. In a related embodiment the biological sample is selected from the group of whole blood serum plasma umbilical cord blood chorionic villi amniotic fluid cerbrospinal fluid spinal fluid lavage fluid biopsy sample urine feces sputum saliva nasal mucous prostate fluid semen lymphatic fluid bile tears sweat breast milk breast fluid embryonic cells and fetal cells and mixture thereof. In one embodiment the sample is from a crime scene e.g. used for forensic analysis . In certain embodiments the biological sample is obtained through non invasive means for example a blood draw from a pregnant female. In another preferred embodiment the biological sample is cell free. In certain embodiments the sample is a previously isolated sample of nucleic acids.

In one embodiment the invention in part provides a method for detecting the presence or absence of fetal nucleic acid in a maternal sample wherein the sample contains nucleic acid which comprises cleaving nucleic acid comprising a maternal allele with a restriction endonuclease that recognizes and cleaves the nucleic acid comprising the maternal allele but not the paternal allele amplifying uncleaved nucleic acid but not cleaved nucleic acid and analyzing the amplification products from the previous step to determine the presence or absence of fetal nucleic acid. In certain embodiments the sample comprises a mixture of nucleic acids. For example the mixture may comprise nucleic acid from different species or from different individuals. In one embodiment the sample is from a pregnant female. Samples can be collected from human females at 1 4 4 8 8 12 12 16 16 20 20 24 24 28 28 32 32 36 36 40 or 40 44 weeks of fetal gestation and preferably between 5 28 weeks of fetal gestation. In certain embodiments the methods may be used to detect the presence or absence of fetal Y chromosome nucleic acid thereby determining the sex of the fetus.

In certain embodiments the target nucleic acid comprises a paternal allele. In certain embodiments the mother is homozygous at the polymorphic site and the fetus is heterozygous at the polymorphic site. In the case when the mother is homozygous at the polymorphic site and the fetus is heterozygous at the polymorphic site the polymorphic site is considered informative see for examples of informative and non informative cases . In a related embodiment the maternal genotype is determined in conjunction with the methods provided herein. In a related embodiment the mother is first genotyped for example using peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC from a maternal whole blood sample to determine the non target allele that will be recognized and cleaved by the cleavage agent. When the method is used for forensic purposes the victim may be first genotyped to determine the non target allele that will be recognized and cleaved by the cleavage agent. Likewise when used for organ transplant related applications the transplant recipient may be first genotyped to determine the non target allele that will be recognized and cleaved by the cleavage agent.

In some embodiments the sample contains nucleic acid from two different individuals. Such instances include but are not limited to organ transplant recipients transfusion recipients and forensic applications.

In certain embodiments the sample is from an individual suspected of suffering from a disease and the non target allele is a wild type allele that is selectively cleaved in order to enrich for a disease related point mutation. In a related embodiment the disease is cancer. The ras proto oncogenes K ras N ras and H ras and the p53 tumour suppressor gene are examples of genes which are frequently mutated in human cancers. Specific mutations in these genes leads to activation or increased transforming potential.

The invention in part provides methods useful for detecting rare alleles or low copy number alleles. In one embodiment the target allele is undetectable by conventional or unmodified genotyping methods if the non target allele is not selectively cleaved. In a related embodiment the target allele is not detectable unless it is selectively enriched for example by the methods provided herein. In certain embodiments the target allele concentration e.g. allele concentration in a sample is less than 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 25 30 relative to the non target allele concentration. In certain embodiments the target nucleic acid number is less than 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 35 40 50 55 60 70 80 90 100 150 200 250 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 or 1000. In certain embodiments the target allele is a mutation and the non target allele is the wild type allele. In a related embodiment the target allele may be either a somatic or germline mutation. In certain embodiments another allele or sequence identifier in the same amplicon as the polymorphic locus may be detected. For example a sequence comprising a target allele may be selectively enriched using the methods provided herein and another sequence identifier may be detected by any method known in the art.

In some embodiments there are no other polymorphic loci within the amplicon that may be recognized by the cleavage agent.

In certain embodiments the method optionally comprises first isolating nucleic acid from the sample. DNA isolation from blood plasma or serum of the pregnant mother can be performed using any method known to one skilled in the art. Any standard DNA isolation technique can be used to isolate the fetal DNA and the maternal DNA including but not limited to QIAamp DNA Blood Midi Kit supplied by QIAGEN. Other standard methods of DNA isolation are described for example in Sambrook et al. Molecular Biology A laboratory Approach Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 Ausubel et al. Current protocols in Molecular Biology Greene Publishing Y 1995 . A preferred method for isolation of plasma DNA is described in Chiu et al. 200147 1607 1613 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Other suitable methods are provided in Example 2 of PCT International Application Publication Number 2007 028155 filed on Sep. 1 2006.

Methods described herein allow for the use of any cleavage agent capable of distinguishing between two different sequences and cleaving within the amplicon sequence thereby preventing amplification of the cleaved sequence. The difference between the sequences may be the result of different alleles at one or more polymorphic sites within the sequence. In another example the difference between the sequences may be the result of two homologous sequences for example between paralogous genes or between highly homologous genes such as the RhD gene which encodes the D polypeptide and the RHCE gene which encodes the CcEe polypeptide. An example of a cleavage agent is a restriction enzyme also referred to as a restriction endonuclease. Multiple restriction endonucleases available from various vendors may be selected that correspond to appropriate sequence differences. In a preferred embodiment the restriction enzyme is HpyCH4V. In another preferred embodiment restriction enzyme Tsp5091. In certain embodiments a step is added to end the cleaving activity of the cleavage agent for example by introducing a protease and or high temperature prior to amplification.

The restriction endonuclease may be added prior to or during amplification. In one embodiment the restriction endonuclease is added less than 5 minutes 5 minutes 10 minutes 20 minutes 30 minutes 40 minutes 50 minutes 60 minutes 90 minutes or 120 or more minutes before amplification. Incubation time may be shortened if additional units of restriction enzyme are added to the reaction. Conversely longer incubation times are often used to allow a reaction to proceed to completion with fewer units of enzyme. This is contingent on how long a particular enzyme can survive maintain activity in a reaction. Some enzymes survive for long periods 16 hours while others survive only an hour or less in a reaction. In certain embodiments the restriction enzyme digests greater than 40 50 60 70 80 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 of the non target nucleic acid. However if digestion of non target nucleic acid of less than 40 allows for useful enrichment of target nucleic acid it is within the scope of the invention. In certain embodiments the restriction enzyme digests substantially all of the non target nucleic acid. In certain embodiments when the restriction endonuclease is added during amplification the restriction endonuclease is a thermostable restriction endonuclease which retains activity during thermocycling. Examples of thermostable endonucleases include but are not limited to Bst NI Bsl I Tru 9I and Tsp 509 I. In certain embodiments the cleavage agent is not thermostable non thermostable especially when it is preferred that the digestion occurs prior to the amplification step. In a preferred embodiment the cleavage agent is not thermostable and digestion of the non target nucleic acid occurs prior to the amplification step. In certain embodiments a step is introduced to prevent or to reduce digestion during the amplification step.

In one embodiment the units of restriction enzyme added to the sample is 0.10 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.0 2.0 or more. Note that DNA substrates are digested at varying rates therefore the actual number of units required for a complete or substantially complete digestion may vary from assay to assay.

In certain embodiments only one restriction endonuclease is used to digest one or more non target alleles in a single reaction. For example a multiplexed assay may be designed wherein a single restriction endonuclease performs multiple e.g. greater than 5 10 15 20 25 50 100 digestions across the genome. In certain embodiments more than one restriction endonuclease e.g. greater than or equal to 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 is used to make multiple e.g. greater than 5 10 15 20 25 50 100 digestions across the genome.

Amplification may be performed after or during the cleavage of the non target allele and prior to the detection of the target allele. In a preferred embodiment amplification is performed after cleavage of the non target allele. Amplification can be performed by any method known in the art including but not limited to polymerase chain reaction PCR ligase chain reaction transcription based amplification restriction amplification or rolling circle amplification using primers that anneal to the selected fetal DNA regions. In the case that amplification requires thermocycling cycling greater than 90 C. may be performed such that the cleavage agent is inactivated. Oligonucleotide primers are selected such that they anneal to the sequence to be amplified. In one embodiment primers are designed such that one or both primers of the primer pair contain sequence recognizable by one or more restriction endonucleases.

Following amplification the relative enrichment of the target allele in the sample allows accurate detection of allele frequencies using practically any method of nucleic acid detection known in the art. For example any of the following methods may be used including but not limited to primer extension or microsequencing methods ligase sequence determination methods mismatch sequence determination methods microarray sequence determination methods restriction fragment length polymorphism RFLP procedures PCR based assays e.g. TAQMAN PCR System Applied Biosystems nucleotide sequencing methods hybridization methods conventional dot blot analyses single strand conformational polymorphism analysis SSCP denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE heteroduplex analysis mismatch cleavage detection detection by mass spectrometry real time PCR and pyrosequencing.

The methods may also be multiplexed at high levels in a single reaction. For example one or more alleles can be detected simultaneously. Multiplexing embodiments are particularly important when the genotype at a polymorphic locus is not known. In some instances for example when the mother is heterozygous at the polymorphic locus the assay may not be informative. See which further describes the use of polymorphic variants to detect fetal nucleic acid from a maternal sample. In one embodiment greater than 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 35 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 500 or more target alleles are assayed wherein not every target allele is informative. In certain embodiments the genotype at the polymorphic locus is known. In some embodiments greater than 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 35 40 50 or more informative target alleles are assayed. The invention also in part includes combinations of different multiplex schemes provided herein.

In certain embodiments the invention in part provides a method for quantifying a target allele at a polymorphic locus in a sample wherein the sample contains nucleic acid that comprises digesting nucleic acid containing a maternal allele at the polymorphic locus with an enzyme such as a restriction endonuclease that selectively digests the maternal allele wherein the selective digestion yields a DNA sample enriched for fetal DNA determining the maternal or paternal allele frequency using polymorphic markers within the amplicon and comparing the paternal or maternal allele frequency to a control DNA sample. In one embodiment a difference in allele frequency is indicative of a chromosomal abnormality. In certain embodiments the control DNA sample is a competitor oligonucleotide that is introduced to the assay in known quantities.

In certain embodiments the present invention in part provides a kit for detecting the presence or absence of target nucleic acid. One component of the kit is primers for amplifying the region of interest. Another component of the kit comprises probes for discriminating between the different alleles of each nucleic acid species.

It has been determined in the fields of biology and diagnostics that certain nucleic acids are present at very low concentrations in humans. In particular fetal DNA has been found to exist in maternal plasma Lo et al. 1997 Aug. 16 350 9076 485 7 . This discovery has facilitated the development of non invasive prenatal diagnostic approaches based simply on the analysis of a maternal blood sample Lo et al. 1998 April 62 4 768 75 . The non invasive nature of maternal plasma based approaches represents a major advantage over conventional methods of prenatal diagnosis such as amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling which are associated with a small but finite risk of fetal loss. However a technical challenge experienced by many workers in the field relates to the ability to discriminate the relatively small amount of fetal DNA from the coexisting background of maternal DNA in maternal plasma. During pregnancy fetal DNA amounts to approximately 3 6 of the total DNA in maternal plasma. Hence the diagnostic reliability of fetal DNA analysis in maternal plasma generally has depended on the accurate detection of fetal specific markers.

Methods described herein solve this problem by enriching relatively the amount of low copy number nucleic acid before detecting or quantifying the alleles present in the sample. In the case of prenatal diagnostics the use of restriction endonuclease enhanced polymorphic sequence detection allows for the selective sensitive detection of fetal nucleic acid from maternal samples. The fetal DNA in the maternal plasma sample is selectively enriched before detecting the alleles present in the maternal sample. To enrich for fetal DNA present in plasma of the mother to allow accurate detection of fetal alleles present in the sample the methods described herein allow for the cleavage of maternal nucleic acid or nucleic acid of maternal origin. Thus the maternal DNA can be substantially reduced masked or destroyed completely and the sample is left with DNA enriched for DNA of fetal origin. The selective reduction of maternal DNA can be performed using one or more enzymes such as restriction endonucleases which selectively digest nucleic acids which comprise maternal alleles.

The term sample as used herein includes a specimen or culture e.g. microbiological cultures that includes nucleic acids. The term sample is also meant to include both biological and environmental samples. A sample may include a specimen of synthetic origin. Biological samples include whole blood serum plasma umbilical cord blood chorionic villi amniotic fluid cerbrospinal fluid spinal fluid lavage fluid e.g. bronchoalveolar gastric peritoneal ductal ear athroscopic biopsy sample urine feces sputum saliva nasal mucous prostate fluid semen lymphatic fluid bile tears sweat breast milk breast fluid embryonic cells and fetal cells. The biological sample can be maternal blood including maternal plasma or serum. In some circumstances the biological sample is acellular. In other circumstances the biological sample does contain cellular elements or cellular remnants in maternal blood.

In a preferred embodiment the sample comprises a mixture of nucleic acids. For example the mixture may comprise nucleic acid from different species or from different individuals. In one embodiment the sample is from a pregnant female or a female suspected of being pregnant. In a related embodiment the sample is procured through non invasive means e.g. a blood draw . In certain embodiments the sample is from any animal including but not limited human non human mammal reptile cattle cat dog goat swine pig monkey ape gorilla bull cow bear horse sheep poultry mouse rat fish dolphin whale and shark or any animal or organism that may be tested for the presence of target nucleic acid.

In a preferred embodiment the biological sample is blood and more preferably plasma. As used herein the term blood encompasses whole blood or any fractions of blood such as serum and plasma as conventionally defined. Blood plasma refers to the fraction of whole blood resulting from centrifugation of blood treated with anticoagulants. Blood serum refers to the watery portion of fluid remaining after a blood sample has coagulated. Environmental samples include environmental material such as surface matter soil water crime scene samples and industrial samples as well as samples obtained from food and dairy processing instruments apparatus equipment utensils disposable and non disposable items. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the sample types applicable to the present invention.

The term non invasive as used herein refers a method for collecting a sample that poses minimal risk to an individual e.g. the mother fetus victim etc. . An example of a non invasive method is a blood draw whereas examples of invasive methods include amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling both of which constitute a finite risk to the fetus.

The terms target or target nucleic acid as used herein are intended to mean any molecule whose presence is to be detected or measured or whose function interactions or properties are to be studied wherein target nucleic comprises the target allele and non target nucleic acid comprises the non target allele. Fetal nucleic acid may comprise both target nucleic acid and non target nucleic when the fetus is heterozygous at a polymorphic locus. Other examples of target nucleic acid include but are not limited to trace nucleic acid mutated nucleic acid viral nucleic acid and transplant nucleic acid.

The terms nucleic acid and nucleic acid molecule may be used interchangeably throughout the disclosure. The terms refer to oligonucleotides oligos polynucleotides deoxyribonucleotide DNA genomic DNA mitochondrial DNA mtDNA complementary DNA cDNA bacterial DNA viral DNA viral RNA RNA message RNA mRNA transfer RNA tRNA ribosomal RNA rRNA siRNA catalytic RNA clones plasmids M13 P1 cosmid bacteria artificial chromosome BAC yeast artificial chromosome YAC amplified nucleic acid amplicon PCR product and other types of amplified nucleic acid RNA DNA hybrids and polyamide nucleic acids PNAs all of which can be in either single or double stranded form and unless otherwise limited would encompass known analogs of natural nucleotides that can function in a similar manner as naturally occurring nucleotides and combinations and or mixtures thereof. Thus the term nucleotides refers to both naturally occurring and modified non naturally occurring nucleotides including nucleoside tri di and monophosphates as well as monophosphate monomers present within polynucleic acid or oligonucleotide. A nucleotide may also be a ribo 2 deoxy 2 3 deoxy as well as a vast array of other nucleotide mimics that are well known in the art. Mimics include chain terminating nucleotides such as 3 O methyl halogenated base or sugar substitutions alternative sugar structures including nonsugar alkyl ring structures alternative bases including inosine deaza modified chi and psi linker modified mass label modified phosphodiester modifications or replacements including phosphorothioate methylphosphonate boranophosphate amide ester ether and a basic or complete internucleotide replacements including cleavage linkages such a photocleavable nitrophenyl moieties.

In the case of RNA the RNA may be placentally expressed RNA in maternal plasma. Background maternal RNA may be selectively digested according to the methods provided herein. Also the method may further comprise the additional step of discriminating the alleles of RNA which involves reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction RT PCR . In certain embodiments the fetal RNA may be extracted from maternal body fluids preferably whole blood and more preferably plasma or serum using e.g. RNA extraction methods such as but not limited to gelatin extraction method silica glass bead or diatom extraction method guanidinium thiocyanate acid phenol based extraction methods guanidinium thiocyanate acid based extraction methods guanidine hydrochloride based extraction methods methods using centrifugation through cesium chloride or similar gradients phenol chloroform based extraction methods and or other available RNA extraction methods as are known in the art for use in extraction of intracellular RNA including commercially available RNA extraction methods e.g. by using or adapting or modifying the methods of Boom et al. 1990 J. Clin. Microbiol. 28 495 503 Cheung et al. 1994 J. Clin. Microbiol. 32 2593 2597 Boom et al. 1991 J. Clin. Microbiol. 29 1804 1811 Chomczynski and Sacchi 1987 Analytical Biochem. 162 156 159 Chomczynski 1993 Biotech. 15 532 537 Chomczynski and Mackey 1995 Biotechniques 19 942 945 Chomczynski and Mackey 1995 Anal. Biochem. 225 163 164 Chirgwin et al. 1979 Biochem. 18 5294 5299 Fournie et al. 1986 Anal. Biochem. 158 250 256 and WO97 35589.

The term amplification reaction refers to any in vitro means for multiplying the copies of nucleic acid.

 Amplifying refers to a step of submitting a sample to conditions sufficient to allow for amplification. Components of an amplification reaction may include but are not limited to e.g. primers a polynucleotide template polymerase nucleotides dNTPs and the like. The term amplifying typically refers to an exponential increase in target nucleic acid. However amplifying as used herein can also refer to linear increases in the numbers of a select target sequence of nucleic acid but is different than a one time single primer extension step.

 Polymerase chain reaction or PCR refers to a method whereby a specific segment or subsequence of a target double stranded DNA is amplified in a geometric progression. PCR is well known to those of skill in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 and 4 683 202 and PCR Protocols A Guide to Methods and Applications Innis et al. eds 1990.

 Oligonucleotide as used herein refers to linear oligomers of natural or modified nucleosidic monomers linked by phosphodiester bonds or analogs thereof. Oligonucleotides include deoxyribonucleosides ribonucleosides anomeric forms thereof peptide nucleic acids PNAs and the like capable of specifically binding to a target nucleic acid. Usually monomers are linked by phosphodiester bonds or analogs thereof to form oligonucleotides ranging in size from a few monomeric units e.g. 3 4 to several tens of monomeric units e.g. 40 60. Whenever an oligonucleotide is represented by a sequence of letters such as ATGCCTG it will be understood that the nucleotides are in 5 3 order from left to right and that A denotes deoxyadenosine C denotes deoxycytidine G denotes deoxyguanosine T denotes deoxythymidine and U denotes the ribonucleoside uridine unless otherwise noted. Oligonucleotides often comprise the four natural deoxynucleotides however they may also comprise ribonucleosides or non natural nucleotide analogs. Where an enzyme has specific oligonucleotide or polynucleotide substrate requirements for activity e.g. single stranded DNA RNA DNA duplex or the like then selection of appropriate composition for the oligonucleotide or polynucleotide substrates is well within the knowledge of one of ordinary skill.

As used herein oligonucleotide primer or simply primer refers to a polynucleotide sequence that hybridizes to a sequence on a nucleic acid template and facilitates the amplification of the nucleic acid template or otherwise plays a role in the detection of the nucleic acid molecule. In amplification embodiments an oligonucleotide primer serves as a point of initiation of nucleic acid synthesis. Primers can be of a variety of lengths and are often less than 50 nucleotides in length for example 12 25 nucleotides in length. The length and sequences of primers for use in PCR can be designed based on principles known to those of skill in the art.

The term template refers to any nucleic acid molecule that can be used for amplification in the methods described herein. RNA or DNA that is not naturally double stranded can be made into double stranded DNA so as to be used as template DNA. Any double stranded DNA or preparation containing multiple different double stranded DNA molecules can be used as template DNA to amplify a locus or loci of interest contained in the template DNA.

The term amplicon as used herein refers to amplified DNA that has been copied once or multiple times e.g. by polymerase chain reaction. The amplicon sequence falls between the amplification primers.

The term polymorphic locus as used herein refers to a nucleic acid region that comprises a polymorphism. The nucleic acid region may be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 20 25 30 35 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 or more nucleotides in length.

The term polymorphism as used herein refers to an allelic variant. Polymorphisms can include single nucleotide polymorphisms SNP s as well as simple sequence length polymorphisms. A polymorphism can be due to one or more nucleotide substitutions at one allele in comparison to another allele or can be due to an insertion or deletion duplication inversion and other alterations known to the art. Other polymorphisms include but are not limited to restriction fragment length polymorphisms RFLPs insertions deletions short tandem repeats such as di tri or tetra nucleotide repeats STRs and the like. As used herein polymorphism may include epigenetic variants as long as cleavage by non epigenetic specific cleavage agents is used.

The term allele as used herein is one of several alternate forms of a gene or non coding regions of DNA that occupy the same position on a chromosome. The term allele can be used to describe DNA from any organism including but not limited to bacteria viruses fungi protozoa molds yeasts plants humans non humans animals and archeabacteria.

Alleles can have the identical sequence or can vary by a single nucleotide or more than one nucleotide. With regard to organisms that have two copies of each chromosome if both chromosomes have the same allele the condition is referred to as homozygous. If the alleles at the two chromosomes are different the condition is referred to as heterozygous. For example if the locus of interest is SNP X on chromosome 1 and the maternal chromosome contains an adenine at SNP X A allele and the paternal chromosome contains a guanine at SNP X G allele the individual is heterozygous A G at SNP X.

As used herein the term mutant alleles may refer to variant alleles that are associated with a disease state e.g. cancer.

The term sequence identifier as used herein refers to any sequence difference that exists between two sequences that can be used to differentiate the sequences. In one embodiment the sequence identifier does not include methylation differences.

As used herein the term genotype refers to the identity of the alleles or non homologous variants present in an individual or sample. The term genotyping a sample or genotyping an individual refers to determining a specific allele or specific nucleotide s or polymorphism s in a sample or carried by an individual at particular region s .

The term selectively as used herein is not intended to suggest an absolute event but instead a preferential event. For example selectively cleaved is used to indicate one sequence for example the non target sequence is preferentially cleaved or digested over another sequence for example the target sequence . However some of the target sequence may also be cleaved due to a lack of specificity with the cleavage agent or other variables introduced during the cleavage process.

The term cleavage agent as used herein refers to any means that is capable of differentially cleaving two or more sequences based on a sequence difference that exists between the two or more sequences. The cleavage agent may be an enzyme. The cleavage agent may be natural synthetic unmodified or modified. In a preferred embodiment the cleavage agent is a restriction endonuclease. Restriction endonucleases alternatively called restriction enzymes are a class of bacterial enzymes that cut or digest DNA at specific sites. Type I restriction endonucleases occur as a complex with the methylase and a polypeptide that binds to the recognition site on DNA. They are often not very specific and cut at a remote site. Type II restriction endonucleases are the classic experimental tools. They have very specific recognition and cutting sites. The recognition sites are short 4 8 nucleotides and are usually palindromic sequences. Because both strands have the same sequence running in opposite directions the enzymes make double stranded breaks which if the site of cleavage is off center generates fragments with short single stranded tails these can hybridize to the tails of other fragments and are called sticky ends. They are generally named according to the bacterium from which they were isolated first letter of genus name and the first two letters of the specific name . The bacterial strain is identified next and multiple enzymes are given Roman numerals. For example the two enzymes isolated from the R strain of are designated Eco RI and Eco RII. In a preferred embodiment the restriction enzyme is a type II restriction endonuclease. In another preferred embodiment the restriction enzyme is non thermostable.

The term chromosomal abnormality as used herein refers to a deviation between the structure of the subject chromosome and a normal homologous chromosome. The term normal refers to the predominate karyotype or banding pattern found in healthy individuals of a particular species. A chromosomal abnormality can be numerical or structural and includes but is not limited to aneuploidy polyploidy inversion a trisomy a monosomy duplication deletion deletion of a part of a chromosome addition addition of a part of chromosome insertion a fragment of a chromosome a region of a chromosome chromosomal rearrangement and translocation. A chromosomal abnormality can be correlated with presence of a pathological condition or with a predisposition to develop a pathological condition.

The invention in part provides nucleic acid based assays that are particularly useful for non invasive prenatal testing. The methods provided herein may be used inter alia to determine the presence of fetal nucleic acid in a sample to determine the amount of fetal nucleic acid in a sample to determine the sex of a fetus and to enrich for a target nucleic acid sequence. The invention in part may be combined with other prenatal methods such as those described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 027 954 filed Feb. 7 2008 PCT Application No. PCT US07 69991 filed May 30 2007 PCT Application No. PCT US07 071 232 filed Jun. 15 2007 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 033 343 filed Mar. 3 2008 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 035 711 filed Mar. 11 2008 or any of the prenatal diagnostic both invasive and non invasive methods disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 944 331 filed Jun. 15 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention in part may be used to more accurately detect fetal DNA using high frequency polymorphisms that match the criteria provided herein. These polymorphisms are alternatively called fetal identifiers. The criteria includes one or more of the following 

4 Optionally The minor allele frequency is greater than 0.4 preferably across a range of populations .

Examples of fetal identifiers are set forth in Tables 6 9 10 and 11. In one embodiment the method of detecting the presence or absence of fetal nucleic acid in a sample comprises obtaining or possessing a nucleic acid sample known to be of maternal origin and suspected of comprising fetal nucleic acid analyzing the nucleic acid sample to determine the maternal genotype at one or more nucleotide polymorphisms selected from the group consisting of the polymorphisms set forth in Tables 6 9 10 and 11 and analyzing the nucleic acid sample to determine the fetal genotype of one or more nucleotide polymorphisms selected from the group consisting of the polymorphisms set forth in Tables 6 9 10 and 11 wherein a fetal genotype possessing a paternally inherited allele indicates the presence of fetal nucleic acid further wherein nucleic acid comprising a maternal allele is digested using the methods provided herein. In a preferred embodiment one or more of the polymorphisms set forth in Table 6 or 11 are used in conjunction with the methods provided herein. In a related embodiment the maternal genotypes are first determined from DNA that is substantially free of fetal nucleic acid. For example in the case when the sample is blood the maternal genotypes may be determined from the portion of the blood that comprises nucleated maternal cells e.g. white blood cells . In one embodiment the DNA that is substantially free of fetal nucleic acid is from peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In certain embodiments the amount of fetal DNA is determined by comparing the relative amount of paternally inherited alleles to an internal control e.g. competitor oligonucleotide .

In Tables 6 9 10 and 11 each primer of the amplification primer pair may comprise the entire sequence shown or only the non underlined sequence wherein the underlined portion of the primer is a tag sequence ACGTTGGATG SEQ ID NO 1 for improved multiplexing and the non underlined portion is a sequence specific primer sequence. The tag sequence may be any tag sequence known in the art that improves multiplexing. In certain embodiments the invention in part includes primers that are substantially similar to the primers provided herein for example about 90 or more similar and further wherein the primers are still specific for a given nucleic acid region. For example one or more bases of a primer sequence may be changed or substituted for example with an inosine but the primer still maintains the same specificity and plexing ability. Bases indicated by uppercase text are complementary to the nucleic acid sequence to which the primer hybridizes and bases indicated by lowercase text are not complementary to the nucleic acid sequence to which the primer hybridizes. Bases indicated in lower case text can be selected to shift or adjust the mass of primers and amplification products.

In particular embodiments a sequence tag is attached to a plurality of primary and secondary primer pairs provided in Tables 6 9 10 and 11. The sequence tag can be attached to either one or both of the primary and secondary primers from each pair. Typically the sequence tag is attached to the primary and secondary primer of each pair. The sequence tags used herein can range from 5 up to 20 from 5 up to 30 from 5 up to 40 or from 5 up to 50 nucleotides in length with a sequence tag of 10 mer length being particularly useful in the methods provided herein. The sequence tag need not be the same sequence for each primer pair in the multiplexed amplification reaction nor the same sequence for a primary and secondary primer within a particular amplification pair. In a particular embodiment the sequence tag is the same for each primer in the multiplexed amplification reaction. For example in certain embodiments the sequence tag is a 10 mer such as ACGTTGGATG SEQ ID NO 1 and is attached to the 5 end of each primary and secondary primer. In particular embodiments of the methods provided herein only a single primer pair is used to amplify each particular nucleic acid target region.

In certain embodiments methods described herein may be used to improve the detection the Y chromosome in a maternal sample which may be used to determine the sex of a fetus. The presence or absence of the Y chromosome in a maternal sample may be determined by performing the SRY assay described in Example 3. The SRY assay is a highly sensitive quantitative internal standard assay that detects trace amounts of the Y chromosome. In certain embodiments other polymorphisms located on the Y chromosome may be assayed according to the methods provided herein.

The presence or absence of the Y chromosome in a maternal sample may also be determined by performing the AMG assay provided herein. The presence or absence of a target nucleic acid may be determined in combination with other assays such as an RhD assay blood type assay or sex test assay. The methods may also be used for other applications including but not limited to paternity testing forensics or quality control assays.

In addition to prenatal applications the methods find utility in a range of applications including but not limited to detecting rare cancer mutations detecting transplant rejection and forensics.

In certain embodiments the total copy number of nucleic acid molecules for the human serum albumin ALB gene is determined. Methods for determining the total copy number of nucleic acid present in a sample comprise detecting albumin specific extension products and comparing the relative amount of the extension products to competitors introduced to the sample. In a related embodiment the invention in part provides compositions and methods to determine the relative amount of fetal DNA in a sample e.g. when the sample is plasma from a pregnant woman carrying a male fetus which comprises annealing one or more albumin gene sequences to the fetal DNA the primers provided in performing a primer extension reaction and analyzing the primer extension products to determine the relative amount of ALB extension products wherein maternal albumin nucleic acid has been reduced using the methods provided herein. In a related embodiment the fetal ALB amplicon is first amplified using the amplification primers provided in . The assay is useful to measure how much nucleic acid e.g. total copy number is present in a sample or loaded into a particular reaction. The assay may serve as an internal control and a guide to the likelihood of success for a particular PCR reaction. For example if only 400 copies of ALB are measured then the probability of detecting any fetal DNA may be considered low. In certain embodiments the competitors provided in are introduced as an internal standard to determine copy number. In one embodiment 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 or more competitor molecules are introduced to the assay.

Methods described herein provide a number of advantageous. The methods allow a high sensitivity to detect polymorphic alleles e.g. fetal identifiers present at low relative percentages in a DNA mixture and present at low copy number. The methods may also be incorporated into multiplexed assays in a single reaction. The methods are readily implemented and only add a single additional step to the many current detection methods.

Cleavage methods and procedures for selecting restriction enzymes for cutting nucleic acid at specific sites are well known to the skilled artisan. For example many suppliers of restriction enzymes provide information on conditions and types of DNA sequences cut by specific restriction enzymes including New England BioLabs Pro Mega Biochems Boehringer Mannheim and the like.

The preparation of nucleic acid to be cleaved should be free of contaminants such as phenol chloroform alcohol EDTA detergents or excessive salts all of which can interfere with restriction enzyme activity.

Embodiments of the invention can be assembled from multiple restriction endonucleases available from various vendors that are chosen to correspond to appropriate polymorphic alleles as long as the restriction endonuclease selects for one polymorphic allele over another and performs a digestion within the amplicon sequence such that it prevents a subsequent amplification event. In one embodiment the amplicon is chosen such that it contains a variable nuclease restriction site and sequence identifier which may or may not be the same as the restriction site. Also the restriction enzyme need not cleave at the polymorphic site for example at the variable nucleotide of a SNP.

Restriction enzymes are traditionally classified into three types on the basis of subunit composition cleavage position sequence specificity and cofactor requirements. However amino acid sequencing has uncovered extraordinary variety among restriction enzymes and revealed that at the molecular level there are many more than three different kinds.

Type I enzymes are complex multisubunit combination restriction and modification enzymes that cut DNA at random far from their recognition sequences. Originally thought to be rare we now know from the analysis of sequenced genomes that they are common. Type I enzymes are of considerable biochemical interest but they have little practical value since they do not produce discrete restriction fragments or distinct gel banding patterns.

Type II enzymes cut DNA at defined positions close to or within their recognition sequences. They produce discrete restriction fragments and distinct gel banding patterns and they are the only class used in the laboratory for DNA analysis and gene cloning. Type II enzymes frequently differ so utterly in amino acid sequence from one another and indeed from every other known protein that they likely arose independently in the course of evolution rather than diverging from common ancestors.

The most common type II enzymes are those like HhaI HindIII and NotI that cleave DNA within their recognition sequences. Enzymes of this kind are the principle ones available commercially. Most recognize DNA sequences that are symmetric because they bind to DNA as homodimers but a few e.g. BbvCI CCTCAGC recognize asymmetric DNA sequences because they bind as heterodimers. Some enzymes recognize continuous sequences e.g. EcoRI GAATTC in which the two half sites of the recognition sequence are adjacent while others recognize discontinuous sequences e.g. BglI GCCNNNNNGGC SEQ ID NO 2 in which the half sites are separated. Cleavage leaves a 3 hydroxyl on one side of each cut and a 5 phosphate on the other. They require only magnesium for activity and the corresponding modification enzymes require only S adenosylmethionine. They tend to be small with subunits in the 200 350 amino acid range.

The next most common type II enzymes usually referred to as type IIs are those like FokI and AlwI that cleave outside of their recognition sequence to one side. These enzymes are intermediate in size 400 650 amino acids in length and they recognize sequences that are continuous and asymmetric. They comprise two distinct domains one for DNA binding the other for DNA cleavage. They are thought to bind to DNA as monomers for the most part but to cleave DNA cooperatively through dimerization of the cleavage domains of adjacent enzyme molecules. For this reason some type IIs enzymes are much more active on DNA molecules that contain multiple recognition sites. A wide variety of Type IIS restriction enzymes are known and such enzymes have been isolated from bacteria phage archeabacteria and viruses of eukaryotic algae and are commercially available Promega Madison Wis. New England Biolabs Beverly Mass. . Examples of Type IIS restriction enzymes that may be used with the methods described herein include but are not limited to enzymes such as those listed in Table IA.

The third major kind of type II enzyme more properly referred to as type IV are large combination restriction and modification enzymes 850 1250 amino acids in length in which the two enzymatic activities reside in the same protein chain. These enzymes cleave outside of their recognition sequences those that recognize continuous sequences e.g. Eco57I CTGAAG cleave on just one side those that recognize discontinuous sequences e.g. BcgI CGANNNNNNTGC SEQ ID NO 3 cleave on both sides releasing a small fragment containing the recognition sequence. The amino acid sequences of these enzymes are varied but their organization are consistent. They comprise an N terminal DNA cleavage domain joined to a DNA modification domain and one or two DNA sequence specificity domains forming the C terminus or present as a separate subunit. When these enzymes bind to their substrates they switch into either restriction mode to cleave the DNA or modification mode to methylate it.

As discussed above the length of restriction recognition sites varies. For example the enzymes EcoRI SacI and SstI each recognize a 6 base pair bp sequence of DNA whereas NotI recognizes a sequence 8 bp in length and the recognition site for Sau3AI is only 4 bp in length. Length of the recognition sequence dictates how frequently the enzyme will cut in a random sequence of DNA. Enzymes with a 6 bp recognition site will cut on average every 4or 4096 bp a 4 bp recognition site will occur roughly every 256 bp.

Different restriction enzymes can have the same recognition site such enzymes are called isoschizomers. Table IB shows that the recognition sites for SacI and SstI are identical. In some cases isoschizomers cut identically within their recognition site but sometimes they do not. Isoschizomers often have different optimum reaction conditions stabilities and costs which may influence the decision of which to use. Table IB is provided only to show exemplary restriction enzymes and does not limit the scope of the invention in any way.

Restriction recognitions sites can be unambiguous or ambiguous. The enzyme BamHI recognizes the sequence GGATCC and no others therefore it is considered unambiguous. In contrast HinfI recognizes a 5 bp sequence starting with GA ending in TC and having any base between in Table IB N stands for any nucleotide . HinfI has an ambiguous recognition site. XhoII also has an ambiguous recognition site Py stands for pyrimidine T or C and Pu for purine A or G so XhoII will recognize and cut sequences of AGATCT AGATCC GGATCT and GGATCC.

The recognition site for one enzyme may contain the restriction site for another. For example note that a BamHI recognition site contains the recognition site for Sau3AI. Consequently all BamHI sites will cut with Sau3AI. Similarly one of the four possible XhoII sites will also be a recognition site for BamHI and all four will cut with Sau3AI.

Also from Table IB most recognition sequences are palindromes they read the same forward 5 to 3 on the top strand and backward 5 to 3 on the bottom strand . Most but certainly not all recognition sites for commonly used restriction enzymes are palindromes. Most restriction enzymes bind to their recognition site as dimers pairs .

Whether detecting sequence differences detecting amplification products or primer extension products any detection or discrimination method known in the art may be utilized. These methods include but are not limited to primer extension reactions mass spectrometry hybridization using at least one probe hybridization using at least one fluorescently labeled probe direct sequencing cloning and sequencing and electrophoresis. Polymorphism detection methods known in the art may also include for example microsequencing methods ligase sequence determination methods e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 679 524 and 5 952 174 and WO 01 27326 digital PCR U.S. Pat. No. 6 143 496 mismatch sequence determination methods e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 851 770 5 958 692 6 110 684 and 6 183 958 microarray sequence determination methods restriction fragment length polymorphism RFLP procedures PCR based assays e.g. TAQMAN PCR System Applied Biosystems nucleotide sequencing methods hybridization methods conventional dot blot analyses single strand conformational polymorphism analysis SSCP e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 891 625 and 6 013 499 Orita et al. 86 27776 2770 1989 denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE heteroduplex analysis mismatch cleavage detection and techniques described in Sheffield et al. 49 699 706 1991 White et al. Genomics 12 301 306 1992 Grompe et al. 86 5855 5892 1989 and Grompe 5 111 117 1993 detection by mass spectrometry e.g. US 20050079521 which is hereby incorporated by reference real time PCR e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 210 015 U.S. Pat. No. 5 487 972 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference or hybridization with a suitable nucleic acid primer specific for the sequence to be detected. Suitable nucleic acid primers can be provided in a format such as a gene chip.

Primer extension polymorphism detection methods also referred to herein as microsequencing methods typically are carried out by hybridizing a complementary oligonucleotide to a nucleic acid carrying the polymorphic site. In these methods the oligonucleotide typically hybridizes adjacent to the polymorphic site. As used herein the term adjacent refers to the 3 end of the extension oligonucleotide being sometimes 1 nucleotide from the 5 end of the polymorphic site often 2 or 3 and at times 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 nucleotides from the 5 end of the polymorphic site in the nucleic acid when the extension oligonucleotide is hybridized to the nucleic acid. The extension oligonucleotide then is extended by one or more nucleotides often 1 2 or 3 nucleotides and the number and or type of nucleotides that are added to the extension oligonucleotide determine which polymorphic variant or variants are present. Oligonucleotide extension methods are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 656 127 4 851 331 5 679 524 5 834 189 5 876 934 5 908 755 5 912 118 5 976 802 5 981 186 6 004 744 6 013 431 6 017 702 6 046 005 6 087 095 6 210 891 and WO 01 20039. The extension products can be detected in any manner such as by fluorescence methods see e.g. Chen Kwok 25 347 353 1997 and Chen et al. 94 20 10756 10761 1997 and by mass spectrometric methods e.g. MALDI TOF mass spectrometry . Oligonucleotide extension methods using mass spectrometry are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 547 835 5 605 798 5 691 141 5 849 542 5 869 242 5 928 906 6 043 031 6 194 144 and 6 258 538.

Microsequencing detection methods often incorporate an amplification process that proceeds the extension step. The amplification process typically amplifies a region from a nucleic acid sample that comprises the polymorphic site. Amplification can be carried out by utilizing a pair of oligonucleotide primers in a polymerase chain reaction PCR in which one oligonucleotide primer typically is complementary to a region 3 of the polymorphism and the other typically is complementary to a region 5 of the polymorphism. A PCR primer pair may be used in methods disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 4 683 202 4 965 188 5 656 493 5 998 143 6 140 054 WO 01 27327 and WO 01 27329 for example. PCR primer pairs may also be used in any commercially available machines that perform PCR such as any of the GENEAMP Systems available from Applied Biosystems.

A microarray can be utilized for determining whether a polymorphic variant is present or absent in a nucleic acid sample. A microarray may include any oligonucleotides described herein and methods for making and using oligonucleotide microarrays suitable for prognostic use are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 492 806 5 525 464 5 589 330 5 695 940 5 849 483 6 018 041 6 045 996 6 136 541 6 142 681 6 156 501 6 197 506 6 223 127 6 225 625 6 229 911 6 239 273 WO 00 52625 WO 01 25485 and WO 01 29259. The microarray typically comprises a solid support and the oligonucleotides may be linked to this solid support by covalent bonds or by non covalent interactions. The oligonucleotides may also be linked to the solid support directly or by a spacer molecule. A microarray may comprise one or more oligonucleotides complementary to a polymorphic site within a nucleotide sequence.

The following examples are provided to further describe embodiments of the invention and are not limiting.

The effectiveness of restriction endonuclease enhanced polymorphic sequence detection was demonstrated using several restriction endonucleases REs including HpyCH4V and NlaIII purchased from New England BioLabs Inc . Both of these enzymes were separately tested in multiplexed genotyping reactions for their ability to specifically cleave one allele of a given polymorphism while allowing PCR amplification of the remaining allele of the polymorphism. See Table 2 for the polymorphisms tested with each enzyme.

Two CEPH DNA samples were mixed in varying ratios to generate DNA samples composed of 0 2 5 20 50 and 100 DNA heterozygous for both alleles of the SNP with the remaining DNA being homozygous for the allele recognized by the RE. Table 3 shows DNA samples used in these studies and corresponding genotype information. Mixtures composed of NA05995 and NA10849 were used for experiments with HpyCH4V enzyme and mixtures composed of NA10862 and NA10846 were used for experiments with NlaIII enzyme.

After preparation of the sample DNA mixtures PCR cocktail was prepared according to Table 5 below using multiplexed PCR primers as shown in Table 6 to either include no restriction endonuclease or 0.25 U of restriction endonuclease per each sample reaction. PCR cocktail was aliquoted to a 96 well plate to include 7 replicates of each DNA mixture for each enzyme condition. After addition of DNA to the PCR cocktail mixtures samples were incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour to allow enzyme digestion of DNA samples and then immediately thermal cycled using standard conditions Table 7 .

Amplicon generated during PCR was genotyped with the extend primers in Table 5 using standard iPLEX assay and MassARRAY technology Jurinke C. Oeth P. van den Boom D. MALDI TOF mass spectrometry a versatile tool for high performance DNA analysis. 26 147 164 2004 and Oeth P. et al. iPLEX Assay Increased Plexing Efficiency and Flexibility for MassARRAY System through single base primer extension with mass modified Terminators. SEQUENOM Application Note 2005 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference .

Digestion of DNA with both restriction enzymes allowed detection of minor alleles when they were present at ratios as low as 2 heterozygous DNA. This is in contrast to undigested DNA samples where minor alleles were only reliably detected when present at ratios of 20 heterozygous DNA and higher. When allele peak area ratios are considered the effect of restriction endonuclease digest is even more apparent. HpyCH4V digested samples showed minor allele peak area ratios of 0.35 0.45 in 2 heterozygous DNA mixtures while minor allele peak area ratios of 2 heterozygous DNA mixtures were at background levels without enzyme digestion . While the increases in allele peak area ratio were not as high when using the NlaIII restriction endonuclease the results were similar . Example screen shots of the mass spectrum in 2 heterozygous DNA mixtures with and without HpyCHV or NlaIII are shown below.

Initial optimization studies for enzyme concentration and pre PCR incubation time of HpyCHV digestion were performed using 5 heterozygous DNA mixtures 0.6 ng heterozygous DNA 11.4 ng homozygous DNA . Based on these experiments maximal peak area ratios were obtained with incubation times as short as 5 minutes and 0.25 U HpyCHV enzyme.

A similar experiment was performed as described in Example 1 using a different restriction endonuclease TfiI. In this experiment the TfiI restriction endonuclease selectively recognized and cleaved the C allele of the C T SNP rs4487973. The SNP rs4487973 occurs in the following genomic sequence on chromosome 1 CACACAGTTAGGATT C T ACCTGAGCTTGTCCC SEQ ID NO 28 . For these studies two CEPH DNA samples one homozygous C and the other heterozygous C T for the rs4487973 SNP were mixed in varying ratios to generate DNA mixtures containing 0 1 2.5 10 50 of the rs4487973 T allele. The TfiI restriction endonuclease was either added or not added to each mixture to determine the endonucleases effect on detecting the polymorphic sequence. Of the mixtures not digested with TfiI enzyme the rs4487973 T allele was detected in the 10 and 50 T allele mixtures but not the 0 1 and 5 T allele DNA mixtures. However of samples digested with TfiI enzyme the rs4487973 T allele was detectable in 1 5 10 and 50 T allele mixtures. These results indicate the utility of this method to improve detection of polymorphic alleles present at low relative concentrations in a sample.

Analysis of paternally inherited alleles in clinical samples and correlation with Y chromosome frequency in male fetuses was performed with a total of 16 SNPs. SNP assays for analysis of clinical samples were multiplexed as 8 plexes. All SNPs had a minor allele frequency maf of 0.4 in all ethnic groups and were unlinked.

For performance evaluation of a universal Fetal Identifier panel that can be multiplexed with disease specific markers a new panel of 87 NT SNPs with a pan ethnic maf 0.4 was selected and multiplexed into 16 plexes.

Analysis of SNPs in maternal buffy coat and maternal plasma was performed using the iPLEX assay and MassARRAY technology. In brief the target region surrounding the SNP is first amplified by PCR. Subsequently an oligonucleotide primer is annealed to the PCR product and is extended allele specifically by a single nucleotide using a mixture of 4 terminator nucleotides and a DNA polymerase. The extension products are transferred to a miniaturized chip array and are analyzed by MALDI TOF Mass Spectrometry. Determination of the molecular mass of extension products allows unambiguous identification of the SNP allele present in the sample. The peak area ratio of mass signals allows the estimation of the relative abundance of the alleles in a given sample. provides an overview of the assay used for SNP analysis.

The total sample set consisted of 35 paired blood plasma samples from pregnant Caucasian woman nine 1st trimester twelve 2nd trimester fourteen 3rd trimester .

The subset of samples used for correlation of Y chromosome frequency and paternally inherited alleles in maternal plasma consisted of 19 samples of pregnant Caucasian woman carrying a male fetus.

DNA extraction was performed from 1 ml of maternal plasma using the Qiagen MinElute kit for fetal genotyping.

DNA extraction from frozen blood minus plasma was performed from 4 ml using Qiagen s PureGene kit for maternal genotyping.

An assay targeting sequence differences in the Amelogenin region on the X and Y chromosome was used to assess the relative amount of fetal DNA extracted from plasma of pregnant woman carrying a male fetus. Details of the AMG assay are depicted in . X and Y specific sequences can be discriminated by sequence specific iPLEX extension products and their respective mass signals. The peak area ratio of the extension products allows estimation of the relative amount of fetal DNA because the Y specific sequences represent 50 of the total fetal DNA contribution.

Sixteen of nineteen 84 plasma samples with a male fetus showed a Y chromosome frequency of higher than 5 indicating presence of at least 10 fetal DNA in the extracted DNA.

Table 8 provides a list of SNPs that were multiplexed at 10 plexing level and passed all phases of the validation. The following shows the validation scheme performance criteria and model system used to qualify multiplex SNP assays for their utility in identifying the presence for fetal DNA 

Application of this assay panel to a model system for the detection of fetal DNA in maternal background showed that paternally inherited fetal alleles can be detected with a sensitivity of 95 at 100 specificity if the sample preparation method can enrich the relative amount of fetal DNA to 20 . In Table 8 the minor allele frequency MAF for each SNP from different ethnic populations is provided. The ethnic populations are defined by the HapMap Project where CEU represents individuals of Northern and Western Europe descent HCB represents Han Chinese in Beijing JAP represents Japanese in Tokyo and YRI represents the Yoruba in Ibadan Nigeria.

A multiplexed panel of 16 SNPs was analyzed with maf 0.3 in the same maternal plasma DNA extraction and established a baseline of maternal genotypes by analyzing DNA from PBMCs. Using the maternal genotype information paternally inherited alleles were identified in plasma samples and estimated the amount of fetal DNA from the peak area ratio of extension products representing paternally inherited fetal alleles and maternal alleles.

The AMG XY frequency was then compared with the allele frequency of paternally inherited fetal alleles in informative SNPs. This comparison revealed that samples with a positive Y frequency of 10 used as a Limit of quantitation threshold or more have significantly higher differences between maternally and paternally inherited fetal allele frequencies p value 

The entirety of each patent patent application publication and document referenced herein hereby is incorporated by reference. Citation of the above patents patent applications publications and documents is not an admission that any of the foregoing is pertinent prior art nor does it constitute any admission as to the contents or date of these publications or documents.

Modifications may be made to the foregoing without departing from the basic aspects of the invention. Although the invention has been described in substantial detail with reference to one or more specific embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made to the embodiments specifically disclosed in this application yet these modifications and improvements are within the scope and spirit of the invention.

The invention illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element s not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example in each instance herein any of the terms comprising consisting essentially of and consisting of may be replaced with either of the other two terms. The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description and not of limitation and use of such terms and expressions do not exclude any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. The term a or an can refer to one of or a plurality of the elements it modifies e.g. a reagent can mean one or more reagents unless it is contextually clear either one of the elements or more than one of the elements is described. The term about as used herein refers to a value within 10 of the underlying parameter i.e. plus or minus 10 and use of the term about at the beginning of a string of values modifies each of the values i.e. about 1 2 and 3 is about 1 about 2 and about 3 . For example a weight of about 100 grams can include weights between 90 grams and 110 grams. Thus it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by representative embodiments and optional features modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art and such modifications and variations are considered within the scope of this invention.

