---

title: Method and assembly for validating bond line
abstract: A method includes positioning a layer of adhesive between a first structural component and a second structural component, positioning a first evaluation film between the first structural component and the layer of adhesive, curing the adhesive at least partially, separating the first structural component and the first evaluation film by a relative movement therebetween, and inspecting bond line quality of the adhesive.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08349104&OS=08349104&RS=08349104
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08349104
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080721
---
The present invention was developed at least in part with government funding under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Modular components can be bonded together using adhesives. For instance gas turbine engines can utilize modular components made of composite materials that are bonded together using adhesives which can be removable adhesives in order to facilitate replacement or repair of the modular components. Many adhesives are cured through the application of temperature and or pressure. The quality of a bond line formed by adhering components together often must be validated such as during the configuration of manufacturing facilities and techniques for production as well as for quality control or diagnostic purposes later. These validations help ensure that adhesive bond lines will perform as desired.

Validation of adhesive bond lines can be performed using destructive testing. Destruction of the adhered parts is often necessary because the adhesive bond line may not be sufficiently exposed to permit evaluation. However destructive testing is often undesirable because modular components are often expensive and scarce. For example during the design phases prior full production of a given modular assembly prototype or test components may be difficult to procure or otherwise unavailable within a suitable time frame for destructive testing to be feasible.

Moreover test equipment that can survive high temperature adhesive curing conditions may be expensive or unavailable. For example pressure sensitive films are also known for allowing optical analysis of pressure distributions. However these films are generally not suitable for use at elevated temperatures and therefore are not helpful for evaluating bond lines with adhesives cured at elevated temperatures.

A method includes positioning a layer of adhesive between a first structural component and a second structural component positioning a first evaluation film between the first structural component and the layer of adhesive curing the adhesive at least partially separating the first structural component and the first evaluation film by a relative movement therebetween and inspecting bond line quality of the adhesive.

An assembly includes a first structural component a second structural component a layer of adhesive curable at an elevated temperature located between the first and second structural components and a first evaluation film located between and in contact with the first structural component and the layer of adhesive. The evaluation film is transparent or translucent and configured to be removable from the first structural component.

In general the present invention relates to an adhesive bond line validation method and apparatus that reduces or eliminates a need to destroy bonded structural components during validation testing. Evaluation films can be placed along one or more surfaces of an adhesive layer in between structural components desired to be bonded. The evaluation films can define barriers between the adhesive layer and the structural components such that when the adhesive layer is at least partially cured there is essentially no adhesion to the structural components where the evaluation films were placed. The structural components can be separated without damage and a bond line formed by the cured or partially cured adhesive layer along with the one or more evaluation films can be removed for inspection. In one embodiment the evaluation films are transparent or translucent allowing visual inspection therethrough. The evaluation films can optionally be separated from the bond line formed by the cured or partially cured adhesive layer for further inspection such as thickness distribution analysis. Results of inspection of the bond line can be used to adjust process parameters such as heat and or pressure applied to cure the adhesive and the validation process repeated as necessary until bond lines meet desired specifications.

Next the layer of adhesive is at least partially cured to form a bond line step . Curing can involve the application of heat and or pressure. For example the first and second structural components along with the layer of adhesive and evaluation films can be clamped together with a suitable pressure application device and the clamped items all placed in an oven. However it should be understood that the particular methods of curing the layer of adhesive will vary as a function of the particular adhesive used. In general process of curing the layer of adhesive can generally follow a desired production method.

Once the layer of adhesive has cured as desired the first and second structural components can be separated step . This step can avoid damage to or destruction of the first and second structural components because of the presence of the evaluations films which can act as barriers between the first and second structural components and the layer of adhesive. The layer of adhesive and the first and or second evaluation films adhered thereto can then be removed step . The curing step generally adheres the layer of adhesive to the first and second evaluation films which allows the layer of adhesive and the evaluation films to be relatively easily removed simultaneously by hand or with suitable tools. With some types of adhesive such as a calendared silicone adhesive the cured layer of adhesive is generally stable and flexible enough to be moved and handled with care thereby assisting with later inspections or evaluations of the bond line.

The first and or second evaluation films can be transparent or translucent which can allow for visual or optical inspection of the bond line formed by the layer of adhesive during the curing step through the evaluation films step . This visual analysis can include identification of voids wrinkles or other known conditions associated with bond line defects and provide an optical analysis of pressure distribution.

Other inspections of the bond line can also be performed as desired. A decision can be made to remove the first and or second evaluation films from the layer step . If desired one or more additional inspections can be performed step such as thickness distribution measurement analysis hardness testing adhesive flow analysis further visual analysis tensile strength testing tear strength testing differential scanning calorimetry DSC thermogravametric analysis TGA thermo mechanical analysis TMA rheology or any other known inspection procedures including destructive testing of the layer of adhesive. Removal of the evaluation films can allow certain forms of inspection that might not otherwise be possible due to the presence of the evaluation films. The evaluation films can be configured to allow for relatively easy removal from the layer of adhesive after curing as discussed further below. It should be noted that in alternative embodiments the visual inspection of step can be omitted and bond line inspection performed only after removal of the evaluation films.

After inspection is complete an analysis can be made as to whether the bonding process should be adjusted step . At this step results of bond line inspections can be analyzed and compared to desired results. One or more process parameters such as temperature and pressure profiles applied during adhesive curing can be adjusted step and the validation process begun again at step . In this sense the validation process allows an empirical determination of the efficacy of process procedures through an iterative testing process. Destruction of structural components which may be expensive and scarce is not required. If no adjustments are desired then the bonding process can be performed using the validated process without the use of the evaluation films in order to adhere the first and second structural components together step .

The adhesive in layer can be a heat and or pressure curable adhesive of a type disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0026142 entitled Removable Adhesive For Replaceable Components Subjected To Impact Loads e.g. a calendared silicone adhesive expoxy polyimid bismaleimide urethane fluoropolymer elastomer or another type of adhesive suitable for a desired application. A thickness of the layer of adhesive can vary as desired for particular applications. In one embodiment the layer of adhesive is approximately 0.127 mm 0.005 inch or more thick.

The first and second evaluation films and can each be thin substantially transparent or translucent films such as those made from a polyimide material e.g. Kapton film available from E. I. Du Pont De Nemours and Co. Corp. Wilmington Del. a perfluoroalkoxy PFA material Teflon like flouropolymers e.g. polytetrafluoroethylene PTFA and fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP fluorinated films etc. The first and second evaluation films and should be sufficiently translucent to allow visual inspection if visual inspection is desired. A thickness of the first and second evaluation films and can vary as desired and will generally relate to the thickness of the layer of adhesive and geometries of the first and second structural components and . However it is generally desirable for the first and second evaluation films and to be as thin as possible. In one embodiment the first and second evaluation films and can be approximately 0.5 10 mils thick or alternatively approximately 1 2 mils thick. It is also generally desirable for the first and second evaluation films and to be able to withstand adhesive process e.g. curing conditions such as elevated temperatures e.g. approximately 120 316 C. 250 600 F. or more and pressures e.g. approximately 690 kilopascals 100 psi or more and exhibit insignificant dimensional change under adhesive processing conditions e.g. less than or equal to a 5 change in thickness per evaluation film . Particular materials for the first and second evaluation films and can be selected according to the particular processing conditions for a given composition of the layer of adhesive .

In one embodiment the composition of the first and second evaluation films and can be selected to reduce or eliminate interference with the cure chemistry of the layer of adhesive in order to promote full curing of the layer of adhesive during bond line validation. Kapton films and PFA films for example are generally inert with respect to the curing of calendared silicone adhesives. Alternatively the composition of the first and second evaluation films and can be selected to interfere with the cure chemistry of the layer of adhesive in order to prevent full curing of the layer of adhesive during bond line validation and thereby allow inspection of adhesive flow etc. prior to full curing. Fluorinated films for example can inhibit or otherwise affect curing of calendared silicone adhesives.

It should be recognized that the present invention provides numerous advantages. For example the present invention provides an essentially non destructive adhesive bond line validation method and apparatus that can help promote desired bond line characteristics for diagnostics quality control analyses etc. The present invention can also be used in conjunction with existing production tooling and procedures. Furthermore adhesive and evaluation films used for validation according to the present invention are generally inexpensive meaning that destruction of those materials for bond line validation can be cost effective for most applications.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance the composition of the adhesive and the adhesive curing techniques utilized with the present invention can vary as desired for particular applications.

