---

title: Scrollable area multi-scale viewing
abstract: Utilizing a scrollbar handle for both zooming and panning a display comprising items in a user interface may be accomplished by monitoring an input device's interaction with the scrollbar handle. If the scroll handle is dragged in a direction away from an orientation of the scroll handle in the scrollbar, a display area zoom function can be activated. The zoom function allows a viewbox, comprising content, to be rescaled as a function of the distance the scroll handle is dragged. A displaybox can be created that distinguishes an area of the viewbox from the remainder of the display, which corresponds to content in the viewbox that would be displayed in normal zoom if the scroll handle were released at that location. Further, upon detecting that the scroll handle is released, the display area can zoom to a view of the content inside the distinguished area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08082518&OS=08082518&RS=08082518
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08082518
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
In a computing environment data items may be stored and displayed in a variety of techniques. Commonly user interface UI elements display data items as lists grids trees browser pages images and videos or a combination of these for example. These UI elements can contain many data items or very large items e.g. images but may only be able to display a small fraction of the item s on a computer screen at one time for example. Typically UI elements use a scrollbar along the horizontal and vertical axes to enable a user to pan around a view of items or one large item. Further a user can often zoom out to view more of the content in the UI element or zoom in to view more detail of the content in the UI element.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In a computing environment user interface UI elements can contain one or more items that may be displayed on a computer display screen for example. Examples of common element control displays for viewing items in the UI element include list views grid views tree views images videos text views browser pages and combinations of these. While a UI element may contain many data items or one large item for example a computer system may only be able to display a portion of the item s at any one time.

Typically users may use one or more scrollbars along the horizontal and vertical axes to pan around a display of the item s to view more of the content. Further a user may be able to zoom out to view more content of the item s e.g. while a typical display may show 20 items a user may zoom out to see 100 items of the content in the UI element in the display . Additionally a user may be able to zoom in to view more detail of the content in the UI element e.g. a user may wish to view greater detail of an area of an image or see text in a larger font size .

Currently typical panning and zooming functions are controlled by separate operations of a UI element. For example a user can pan around the content in the display using one function e.g. using the scrollbar s but activates a second function in order to zoom in or out of the display e.g. presses a control key on a keyboard while rotating a wheel on a mouse .

As provided herein techniques and systems are disclosed for multi scale viewing of a scrollable area in a display utilizing one or more scrollbars for zooming and panning the scrollable area. Input device events can be monitored to monitor a user s interaction with one or more scrollbars in the scrollable display. If monitoring detects that a user drags a scroll handle on the scrollbar e.g. down clicks on the scroll handle and moves the cursor without up clicking orthogonal to the scrollbar s orientation e.g. in a direction that is not along the scrollbar s orientation a display area zoom function can be activated. Activating the display area zoom function can comprise adjusting a scale of a viewbox area of the display e.g. an area in the display with viewable content . An amount of scale adjustment can be a function of an orthogonal distance the scroll handle is dragged from the scrollbar.

In one embodiment if the scroll handle is dragged away from the scrollbar toward a center of the display the display can zoom out to show more content in the display. Further in this embodiment if the scroll handle is dragged toward the scrollbar away from the center of the display the display can zoom in to show more details of the content in the display. In another embodiment if the scroll handle is dragged away from the scrollbar and away from the center of the display e.g. beyond the scope of or outside of a shrunken un maximized window the display can zoom in to show less content but more details of the content in the display. Further in this embodiment if the scroll handle is dragged back toward the center of the display the display can zoom out to show more content in the display. Additionally in another embodiment the display zooming function can be reversed from those described above. For example zooming in to show less content but more detail can be performed when dragging the scroll handle toward the center of the display and zooming out can be performed to show more content but less detail when dragging the scroll handle away from the center of the display.

Additionally If monitoring detects that a user drags a scroll handle on the scrollbar orthogonal to the scrollbar s orientation a new displaybox function can be activated which distinguishes an area of the display e.g. creates a shaded or translucent box around content in the viewbox corresponding to an area of the viewbox that would be displayed upon releasing the dragged scroll handle e.g. upon releasing the handle the display will zoom in to a viewbox area covered by the distinguished area . Also activating the new displaybox function can comprise changing a scale of the distinguished area as a function of the zoom level of the viewbox content e.g. as the viewbox is scaled to include more content the distinguished area scales proportionally .

If the monitoring detects that the scroll handle has been released by the user e.g. the user up clicks the display can be changed to correspond to the area of the viewbox covered by the distinguished area. For example the display can zoom into the content of the viewbox that is covered by the distinguished area.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In one aspect as an example a user viewing content in a user interface UI that does not all fit into a display may wish to pan the display around the content to view other content not on the display. However if the content is large a user may wish to zoom out the display to include more content for example in order to find an area of the content to display. In this example the user can then zoom in the display to include more detail of the content in the area to which the display was panned.

In the exemplary method at a display area zooming function is activated upon detecting a scroll handle drag orthogonal to the scroll handle s orientation in the scrollbar. As an example if the input device events monitoring detects that the scroll handle which is oriented vertically e.g. oriented to scroll up and down a display in the display is dragged horizontally away from the scrollbar the display area zooming function is activated. At activating the display area zooming function can comprise adjusting a scale of a viewbox area of the display. For example a viewbox area can comprise an area of the display that has contains UI element content. is an illustration of an exemplary display showing a vertical list type view of a scrollable display . In this example the viewbox contains a list of items in the UI element. It will be appreciated that while the figures showing illustrations of a viewbox comprise an outline defining boundaries of the viewbox the techniques and systems described herein are not limited to these embodiments. The outlines are used for clarity purposes only and are not intended to create limitations herein.

Turning back to at adjusting the scale of the viewbox area of the display can comprise resealing the viewbox area as a function of the orthogonal distance travelled by the input device dragging the scroll handle. For example as described above the orthogonal distance travelled can be determined and the viewbox can scaled proportionally to the distance. It will be appreciated that scaling of the viewbox can involve changing a size and shape of the viewbox to accommodate a size and shape of UI element content to be displayed inside the viewbox.

At resealing the viewbox involves zooming out to display more content if the scroll handle is dragged toward a center of the display. As an example as the distance the scroll handle is dragged toward the center of the display increases the level of zooming out and an amount of content displayed inside the viewbox increases. In this example the viewbox can change its size and shape to accommodate the increased amount of content e.g. in a list view as the zoom out level increases the view of the list will grow longer and thinner so the viewbox can change in length and width .

At resealing the viewbox involves zooming in to display more details of the content e.g. less amount of content with more details if the scroll handle is dragged away from the center of the display. As an example as the distance between the center of the display and the dragged scroll handle increases the level of zooming in and the amount of details of the content displayed inside the viewbox increases. In this example zooming in to the content allows a viewer to see more details of the content e.g. larger font for text while reducing an amount of content e.g. less words displayed in the viewbox. Further this can be extended to the situation where the user interface window is shrunk or not maximized in which case the scroll handle can be dragged past the scroll bar and out beyond the window to continue zooming in to see more details e.g. to achieve greater than 100 zoom .

Turning back to at the exemplary method activates a new displaybox function upon detecting a scroll handle drag orthogonal to the scroll handle s orientation in the scrollbar. is a block diagram illustrating the activating the new displaybox function portion of the exemplary method for multi scale viewing of a scrollable area in a display. At an area of the display is distinguished from a remainder of the display which corresponds to an area of content in the viewbox that would be displayed upon releasing the dragged scroll handle at the location of the input device. As an example when the display area zooming function is activated upon detecting that the scroll handle has been dragged toward the center of the display away from the scrollbar the viewbox can display a zoomed out portion of the content in the UI element. In this example upon detecting that the scroll handle has been dragged toward the center of the display away from the scrollbar a shaded or translucent box can be displayed over that portion of the scaled viewbox that corresponds to what will be displayed upon releasing the scroll handle e.g. the display can zoom back in to the normal view of the content upon releasing the handle .

At activating the new displaybox function can comprise scaling the distinguished area e.g. shaded box as a function of the zoom level of the viewbox content in the scrollable area of the display corresponding to an area of content in the viewbox that would be displayed upon releasing the dragged scroll handle at that input device location. For example as the zoom level of the content in the viewbox changes the size of the distinguished area can change to correspond to the area of the content that will be displayed when the scroll handle is released. In this example as the viewbox is zoomed out to show more content the distinguished area such as a shaded box over the viewbox will decrease in size proportionally to the zoom level in the viewbox. In this way for example a user can determine what will be displayed in normal view by seeing what portion of the content the shaded box covers during zooming and panning.

Turning again back to at the exemplary method changes the display to correspond to the content within the distinguished area of the viewbox upon detecting a release of the scroll handle. As an example if mouse events are used to monitor a user s interaction with the scroll handle when the user up clicks e.g. mouseup this action can release the scroll handle from its drag condition e.g. while the user kept a mouse button depressed and was moved away from the scrollbar the scroll handle was in a drag condition . In this example upon mouse events detecting the scroll handle s release the area of content in the viewbox that was covered by the distinguished area e.g. shaded box as the scroll handle was released can be displayed in normal zoom level view e.g. the viewbox can zoom in to the content to display an extent of content in the distinguished area .

Having changed the display to correspond to the content within the distinguished area of the viewbox the exemplary method ends at .

It will be appreciated that while the zooming functions have been described to zoom out when dragging a scroll handle toward a center of the display and zooming in when dragging the scroll handle away from the center of the display the methods and systems described herein are not limited to this description. In another embodiment the zooming functions may be reversed. For example the display may be zoomed in when dragging the scroll handle toward the center of the display showing less content but more detail. Similarly the display may be zoomed out when dragging the scroll handle away from the center of the display showing more content but less detail. However in this embodiment if the display is zoomed in when the scroll handle is dragged toward a center of the display the new displaybox function may not be activated.

In one embodiment a scrollable display area of a user interface UI element may comprise a list type view of items. As an example a text based list of items may comprise individual items that can fit in a normal view e.g. default view or customized user view of the display. However in this example all of the items in the list may not be able to be displayed at one time in the normal view. In this case a scrollbar can be displayed along a vertical axis of the display as described above to enable a user scroll through the list in the normal view for example. is an illustration of an exemplary display showing a vertical list type view of a scrollable display .

In this example content in the scrollable display comprises a text based list of groceries . A viewbox comprises viewable content e.g. UI element content that can fit into the display in the current view which in this example because the display is shown in normal view e.g. default view or a user customized view comprises the extent of the display area e.g. the area that can display content not including a scrollbar . Further a user can click down on a scroll handle e.g. mousedown in the vertical scrollbar and drag the cursor e.g. move the cursor after a mousedown and before a mouseup event in a direction away from the scroll handle e.g. mouseaway . In this embodiment as described above dragging the scroll handle orthogonally from an orientation of the scroll handle in the scrollbar e.g. dragging the handle horizontally from a vertical scrollbar can activate the display area zooming function and the new displaybox function.

In another embodiment a scrollable display area of a user interface UI element may comprise a horizontal view of items for example a film strip view of UI element items. is an illustration of an exemplary display showing a horizontal filmstrip type view of a scrollable display. In this example the viewable contents comprise a single horizontal row of frames e.g. image frames of a photo album and a scrollbar comprising a scroll handle is displayed along a horizontal axis of the display . As previously described the viewbox comprises an extent of the viewable display because this is an example of a normal zoom view. In this example when a user drags the scroll handle upward using a cursor which is orthogonal to the scroll handle s orientation the display area zoom function and new display box function can be activated.

In another embodiment for example a scrollable display area of a user interface UI element may comprise content that is a large item or series of items that don t fit into the display in a normal zoomed view e.g. default view or user customized view and have both a horizontal and vertical scrollbar for panning the display around the content. is an illustration of an exemplary horizontal and vertical scrollable display showing an exemplary portion of an image which comprises the content of the UI element. In this example the image is larger than can normally fit in the display while zooming out therefore the display comprises a horizontal and vertical scrollbar for panning around the content image . Further in this example a viewbox comprises an extent of the viewable content in the scrollable display as described above because this is an example of a normal zoomed view. A user may guide a cursor to either the horizontal or vertical scroll handles and drag them orthogonally to their respective orientations in the scrollbar for example. In this example the dragging action can activate the display area zooming function and the new displaybox function.

Additionally in this embodiment for example the distinguished area may be moved about the viewbox using an input device e.g. mouse and its location can correspond to a location of a cursor in the display . Accordingly the distinguished area can be dragged for example to cover the top of the pine tree or any other desired portion of the content so that this newly highlighted content would be displayed e.g. in a zoomed in manner as illustrated in when the input device e.g. mouse button is released. In one example when the entirety of the content is visible due to the degree of zooming out the content may become locked in this completely zoomed out view to facilitate dragging or otherwise moving the distinguished area around to designate or highlight a particular portion of the content. The variable zooming functionality would then be reinstituted when the input device is released. Also in this example the scroll handles have been scaled in size to show the user that the UI content is zoomed out to its extent.

In another aspect when a user zooms out a displayed view in order to view more user interface UI content the content may become difficult to differentiate. To facilitate content differentiation in a zoomed out view a type of semantic zooming can be used. Semantic zooming can be incorporated into geometric zooming e.g. changing the size detail and amount of items for example whereby an index of the items in the UI content can be created and individual indexes can be inserted at locations in the content corresponding to an indexed item.

As an example a list of text based items can be arranged in alphabetical order. In this example an index of this list may comprise letters of the alphabet. In normal view e.g. a default or user customized view whereby the items are readable the displayed portion of the list may comprise 20 items however as the view of the list is zoomed out to include more of the list the text can become indistinguishable. In one embodiment for example as the display is being zoomed out letters of the alphabet corresponding to a first letter of the items can be inserted into the zoomed display at corresponding locations as index points. In this way while the text may be difficult to differentiate the user can use the indexes of the list to facilitate determining a location of items in the list for example.

It will be appreciated that semantic zooming as used by the techniques and systems described herein is not limited to inserting letters or index points. Those skilled in the art may devise various ways to manipulate a view of UI element content in order to facilitate a user s ability to differentiate items during zooming. For example a table of contents type view may be used for large groups of items that could include headings and page numbers inserted into the display as it is zoomed out. In another example images shading or different colors can be used to differentiate items or groups of items.

In another aspect as described above a distinguished area can be created upon detecting a scroll handle drag orthogonal to the scroll handle s orientation when zooming out to display more content. In one embodiment the distinguished area may comprise a shaded or differently colored box in the display which covers a portion of a viewbox in the display. In this embodiment the portion of the viewbox covered by the shaded box corresponds to content in the viewbox that would be displayed upon release of the scroll handle drag at that location. In this aspect if the zooming function is configured to zoom into the content to display more detail when the scroll handle is drag toward a center of the display the displaybox function may not be activated.

In another aspect in an effort to facilitate a user s ability to locate a portion of content in a user interface UI element the content inside a distinguished area e.g. a shaded box of the viewbox can be displayed. For example as described above as a user drags a scroll handle orthogonally from its orientation in a scrollbar a distinguished area such as a shaded box can be created over that portion of the viewbox that would be displayed if the user released the scroll handle at that location. In this example the content of the viewbox that the shaded box covers can be displayed in the scrollable display area behind the viewbox. In this way a user may be able to identify a location of content in the viewbox they desire to view.

A system may be devised for multi scale viewing of a scrollable area in a display utilizing a scrollbar for zooming and panning the scrollable area. is a component block diagram illustrating an exemplary system for multi scale viewing of a scrollable area in a display. In this embodiment the exemplary system comprises an input device event detector which can be configured to detect input device related actions such as those associated with a cursor in conjunction with a scrollable area in a display . As an example a user interface UI on a computer will commonly utilize a mouse as an input device to interact with controls and other display items in the UI element using a cursor . In one embodiment the input device event detector for example may be a mouse events monitor that can detect mouse movements actions e.g. mouse clicks and interactions with UI element controls.

Further in this embodiment the exemplary system comprises a zoomable viewbox which can be configured to be rescaled to accommodate UI content zooming. The zoomable viewbox can comprise content e.g. items that may be displayed in the scrollable area of the UI element of the scrollable area of the display and may be displayed in the scrollable area of the display . In one embodiment for example when a scrollable display area is zoomed to a normal view e.g. a default or user customized view whereby the content in the display is distinguishable for a purpose for which it is intended the viewbox can comprise an extent of the viewable area of the display . Also in this embodiment when the content of the viewbox zoomed out to include more content the viewbox is configured to be scaled in size and shape to accommodate a zoomed out view of the content.

Additionally in this embodiment the exemplary system comprises a viewbox scaler which may be operably coupled to the input device event detector and can be configured to rescale the zoomable viewbox as a function of an orthogonal distance of an input device scroll handle drag from an orientation of the scroll handle . As an example the viewbox scaler may receive scroll handle drag distance data from the event detector to determine how to rescale the zoomable viewbox .

In this embodiment the viewbox scaler comprises a zoom out function which can be configured to rescale the zoomable viewbox by zooming out to display more content in the viewbox if the scroll handle is dragged toward a center of the display . Further in this embodiment the viewbox scaler comprises a zoom in function which can be configured to rescale the zoomable viewbox by zooming in to display more detail of the content in the viewbox if the scroll handle is dragged away from the center of the display . As an example if a user moves the cursor over a scroll handle using a mouse clicks down on the scroll handle and drags it away from the scrollbar the viewbox can be scaled in size and shape to accommodate more of the UI element content as a view of the content is zoomed out. Further in this example if the user then drags the mouse toward the scrollbar the viewbox can be rescaled to accommodate a view of more content detail.

The exemplary system further comprises a new displaybox generator which can be configured to generate a distinguished area of the display from the remainder of the display the distinguished area corresponding to an area of content in the viewbox that would be displayed upon releasing the dragged scroll handle at that input device e.g. mouse cursor location. In one embodiment for example when the viewbox is scaled to accommodate a zoomed view of the content the new displaybox generator can create a distinguished area such as a shaded box that corresponds to content in the viewbox that would be displayed in a normal view as described above. In this embodiment a location of the distinguished area can be a function of a location of the input device s cursor for example as the event detector can send input device location information to the displaybox generator to allow an appropriate placement of the displaybox .

The exemplary system further comprises a displaybox scaler which can be configured to rescale the distinguished area as a function of a zoom level of the viewbox content in the scrollable area of the display and can correspond to an area of content in the viewbox that would be displayed upon releasing the dragged scroll handle at that input device location. In one embodiment for example as the viewbox is scaled in size and shape to accommodate a zoomed view of the content in the UI element the displaybox scaler can scale a size and shape of the displaybox so that is corresponds to content in the viewbox that would be displayed in a normal view as described above. In this embodiment the viewbox scaler can send data to the displaybox scaler that identifies a scale and zoom level of the viewbox . Further in this embodiment for example the event detector can send input device location information to the displaybox scaler to allow an appropriate placement of the displaybox .

The exemplary system further comprises a display area adjuster which may be operably coupled to the input device event detector and can be configured to change the display area to correspond to the content within the distinguished area of the viewbox upon detection of a release of the scroll handle . As an example when a user releases the scroll handle e.g. up clicks a mouse button the event detector can pass information to the display area adjuster that the scroll handle has been released. In this example upon receiving the release information the display area adjuster can zoom the display area to the content of the viewbox comprised in the distinguished area . In this way a user may choose the content they wish to view in a normal zoom by releasing the scroll handle drag at their chosen location for example.

In one embodiment the exemplary system may comprise a semantic zoomer which can be configured to manipulate a view of content in a viewbox to facilitate visual differentiation of the content. In this embodiment the semantic zoomer can be activated upon detection of the viewbox resealing to zoom out. As an example as a view of content in the viewbox is zoomed out it may become indistinguishable. In this example index pointers corresponding to index points in the content can be inserted in the viewbox at locations corresponding to the index points. In this way a user may be able to discern a location in the content even if the content itself is difficult to differentiate for example.

In another embodiment the exemplary system may comprise a display area that is configured to display contents of a distinguished area behind a viewbox. In this embodiment the contents of the distinguished area can be displayed in normal zoom view in the display area behind the viewbox. In this way for example if a user is scrolling and zooming through a list of items the contents of the list can be shown behind the viewbox in the display while the viewbox is zoomed out to a point where the contents may not be distinguishable. In this example a user can more readily locate content in the viewbox even when zoomed out to a point where the content in the viewbox is difficult to distinguish.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

