---

title: Method for facilitating a real-time virtual interaction
abstract: Techniques for facilitating a real-time virtual interaction between two or more users are provided. The techniques include extracting a dynamically changing context from two or more users, wherein the context comprises at least one of user-provided information and one or more items related to at least one of current activity and past activity of the two or more users, analyzing the context from each user to create a classification for each user, comparing the classification for each user with a classification for each additional user, wherein comparing comprises ordering each user in terms of closeness to each additional user, and using the ordering of each user in terms of closeness to each additional user to facilitate a real-time virtual interaction between two or more users. Techniques are also provided for generating a database of one or more user classifications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08516048&OS=08516048&RS=08516048
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08516048
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080124
---
The present application is related to a commonly assigned U.S. application entitled System and Computer Program Product for Facilitating a Real Time Virtual Interaction identified by U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 018 869 and filed on even date herewith the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to information technology and more particularly to virtual interaction.

In the real world while performing various activities individuals also have awareness of other entities people etc. close to them with whom they can potentially collaborate on the spot. For example when going to a mall one may quickly ask another person close by for the directions to the mall or to a specific store.

In a virtual world a program such as for example SecondLife proposes to recreate the real world like environment but in a virtual setting. In the virtual setting individual s avatars perform different activities for example browsing information walking flying buying etc. while seeing other people and or objects close to them that they may have never come across before. As such this opens up tremendous opportunities for on the spot collaboration between entities.

A challenge facing enterprises exists however in using collaboration as a tool for innovation. Specifically challenges can exist for example in building effective communities and creating effective collaboration between employees customers and partners.

Also as appreciated by one skilled in the art real time interaction for example ST Yahoo Messenger Flixter etc. differs from asynchronous interaction for example electronic mail e mail web logs blogs wikis jams Orkut etc. . For example real time collaboration recaptures the immediacy of face to face communication and more easily establishes trust and rapport among team members. Also real time interaction as compared to asynchronous interaction potentially enables heightened productivity faster response to customers and greater agility in capturing business opportunities.

Exemplary existing approaches also for example only send a uniform resource locator URL to the server side for computation of distance as opposed to also incorporating the user s current activity at the user s end. Existing approaches also only talk in terms of web pages and how the uniform resource identifiers URIs are sent from the user s browser to their server side for computation of distance between any two users. Such approaches cannot handle the situation where the user s browser is displaying dynamic and or personalized content which is changing based on user s actions. If a user looks at a web having asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX based pages the main URL may not be indicative of the content in the page.

In existing approaches if only the URL is sent to the server side then the server cannot create the context that the user currently has simply by a downloading the page because it is no longer a page download but maybe a mash up of the information from different URLs and this information may change in non deterministic ways as the user interacts with a mash up applications. Further the users may also personalize the web pages or mash ups. If the server in existing approaches wants to get the personalized web page or mash up page then it has to disadvantageously have the credentials of the user and access the page on user s behalf.

Other existing approaches look at the URLs being executed by users by performing all the distance based calculations at the web server end. The distance or similarity being computed is for finding similarity in navigation patterns or search strategies as opposed to looking fox similarities in activities by actually extracting the content at the client user end as opposed to the server end . In such existing approaches the focus is on navigation patterns or search strategies and consequently such approaches will miss bringing the above two people together.

Existing approaches also include mappings disadvantageously done a priori based on keywords on a web page. Other approaches include finding similarity between any two users by knowing which URLs a particular user is visiting and comparing that sequence of URLs to other users sequence of URLs visited to find a closeness measure between any two users. Such approaches do not consider non web based applications and the client side is limited to providing the URL information but not the content of the page.

None of the middleware for collaboration like blogs wikis jams etc. in existing approaches supports same time type real time presence information having the infrastructure for bringing the correct people and or entities together. As a result an on the spot collaboration promoting web would be advantageous.

Principles of the present invention provide techniques for facilitating a real time virtual interaction.

An exemplary method which may be computer implemented for facilitating a real time virtual interaction between two or more users according to one aspect of the invention can include steps of extracting a dynamically changing context from two or more users wherein the context comprises at least one of user provided information and one or more items related to at least one of current activity and past activity of the two or more users analyzing the context from each user to create a classification for each user comparing the classification for each user with a classification for each additional user wherein comparing preferably involves ordering each user in terms of closeness to each additional user and using the ordering of each user in terms of closeness to each additional user to facilitate a real time virtual interaction between two or more users.

In an embodiment of the invention an exemplary method for generating a database of one or more user classifications includes the following steps Context is extracted from a user wherein the context preferably has one or more items of current activity of the user. The context from each user is analyzed to create a classification for each user. Also the user classification is stored in a searchable database.

At least one embodiment of the invention can be implemented in the form of a computer product including a computer usable medium with computer usable program code for performing the method steps indicated. Furthermore at least one embodiment of the invention can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform exemplary method steps.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Principles of the present invention include a pervasive and rich user experience in web surfing at an enterprise or worldwide web WWW scale. Additionally principles of the invention include ad hoc yet purpose specific real time social networking.

The techniques described herein include for example creating an extensible framework with a plug and play paradigm dynamically adding new classification extractors distance computation modules etc. and providing tools for composing new distance functions and classification extractors. Also control can be provided to a user so that the user is assured of the privacy of the data. Additionally a computation at the client side should not interfere with the user s activities.

One or more embodiments of the present invention include efficient real time for example incremental and or non incremental algorithms to compute closeness metrics between people. Closeness metrics can for example capture useful relationships between people and determine which relationships are useful in a given situation and or context. Also one or more embodiments of the invention include techniques to maintain and re compute three dimensional 3D state information at the server side and render at the client side.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention users are able to get real time presence information about other closely related users with whom they can if they so wish get into real time conversations. Jams can for example have moderators who may define their own distance functions to bring people with a given set of ideas into a common forum. Also this can fox example be a 3D room.

With commerce sites shoppers are able to learn from the presence of other people during shopping thus assisting in making a selection decision. Also one or more embodiments of the invention can include auction sites wherein during the last few minutes of an open cry auction the electronic auctioneer e auctioneer may use the 3D room facility to create a brick and mortar type of auction experience to bring increased euphoria in the bidding process.

As described herein one or more embodiments of the present invention make traditional web surfing more like an experience of the above worlds wherein you can for example see the physical presence of people and or objects communicate with people and or objects have avatars and can navigate 3D environments. In the web surfing experience detailed herein a user can for example meet other individuals that the user may not have met before from across the globe and not be limited to just a web site. As such a user can meet people with whom the user has a higher chance of a meaningful collaboration by making them aware of each others presence in real time. The entities can initiate communication between each other via for example instant message IM chat voice etc.

Principles of the invention include relating people or web based entities doing similar activities based on context extraction of the user s current activity at the user s end and sending the context to the server side for computing distance between any two users. Additionally because the context extraction works at the client user end it is able to extract the context as it changes and therefore will work for even for example AJAX based pages or mash ups because as the state of an AJAX based page changes one or more embodiments of the present invention can create a new context and update the server end and personalized pages without having a need to send the credentials for example log in and password to the server side.

Also as described herein context extraction can be introduced at the client end in different domains such as for example software development environments and tools working on your email client like lotus notes or creating a work document etc where the uniform resource locator URL passing approach for example embodiment does not work or scale. One or more embodiments of the invention can bring two web surfers together who may not have the same navigation pattern or the same search strategies because their content may be very similar. As an example a person viewing a page on chess in Wikipedia and another person viewing a news article on Kasparov on a news site may be brought together because the content on both user ends is related to each other because of their connection to the concept of chess.

As such one or more embodiments of the present invention analyze the content of the current web page that an entity is browsing to create a classification of the web page. This classification is communicated to a server that is receiving such classifications from the users. When the server receives a classification from a user it compares it with the classifications of the existing users currently online to order them vis vis the user in terms of closeness to other users. As used herein a classification refers to a detailed model of an entity s collaboration needs and or potential based on the content actions and history related to the entity.

Principles of the invention also include embedding the notion of distance in web surfing. A distance function is a notion that defines closeness between any two entities in the virtual worlds. The distance function models this closeness as being the usefulness of a person Y to person X if person X were to initiate a collaborative dialogue with person Y.

As an example in SecondLife SL the notion of distance is roughly Euclidean A user can see or hear another person or object if that person is close to the user in a Euclidean sense but that person need not be considered to be useful to the user. As used herein useful refers to the concept that someone who can help a user with or might have answers for something that a user may be looking for or is working on. However as noted herein principles of the present invention include using the above generalized notion of distance and embed it in the traditional web browsing techniques.

For example let Tom and John be viewing and or editing an IBM page with tag clouds that is visual depictions of content tags used on a website being software technology middleware and services Jerry be viewing a Microsoft page with tag clouds being software middleware and applications and Jason be on an India page with tag clouds being country and software all on the Wikipedia website. Let the distance function be 

The above distance function assumes that being on the same page has a greater likelihood of collaboration between any two individuals. Otherwise if the two people are on different pages then the degree of meaningful collaboration is for example proportional to the number of common tags on the two pages. As used herein tags refer to individual elements of a detailed extract of the classification. It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art that other classifiers for example images or any other means could be used to determine a degree of meaningful collaboration and such classifiers fall within the scope of the present invention.

In the above example the classification of a web page was defined as the tag cloud associated with that page given that for each web page of interest there is a tag cloud . But it is not necessary that the classification be defined as a tag cloud only. In a preferred embodiment detailed herein the content text in the paragraphs of a page is analyzed to construct a frequent term vector for that page. The frequent term vector is communicated by each of the clients including browsers showing the web page to a server. The server computes the Euclidean distance between the vectors to determine the closeness between the different web based entities. If the Euclidean distance is found to be small then the entities are close. The farther the Euclidean distance the farther the relation between the entities.

A new client moving to a web page will send its classification to the server automatically. The server determines the set of closest other clients to this client s classification vector. At this point the server may for example put a fixed number of the closest other users in the visibility of the current client or may choose a policy of putting the user in a dynamic group as detailed below.

One or more embodiments of the present invention include pluggable client side plug ins and server side distance computation plug ins in architecture. The server is responsible for collecting contexts from the clients and computing distances between them as well as using other information bases for example ontologies etc. to compute distances between any two contexts. The server also maintains the mapping of context to clients and or users.

Also one or more embodiments of the invention include monitoring the activity of the client at the client s end and sending the extracted context to the server side whenever the context changes. Activities can include for instance internet browsing and non web based activities for example writing an e mail on a lotus notes client creating a Java class in Eclipse integrated development environment IDE etc. .

The techniques described herein can also for example consider dynamic pages personalized pages and other kinds of applications. One or more embodiments of the invention may also include plug ins to extract contexts which are other than just URLs from web pages from clients as well as server side distance computation plug ins for computing distance functions taking as input two contexts received from their respective clients. Additionally as detailed herein a server side can leverage ontologies to compute a distance between any two contexts.

The client can for example have the capability to customize the context any time during the session as well as communicate with other clients on a one to one basis or create explicit groups within which to communicate. Also categories or concepts can be automatically created on the server side based on the received contexts from the clients. Categories or concepts can also be linked with the user profiles to which they are related. Clients additionally can explicitly write queries in the client a feature provided by the client plug in and send the queries to the server side the server side associating the received client query for example using the client s context and ontologies available to the available concepts and hence to the other user profiles associated with the concepts.

Extracting context can occur for example at one or more domains. Domains can include for example software development environments e mail a work document electronic commerce and or internet. Extracting context can also include parsing a document object model DOM for the current user activity using the parsed DOM to obtain words of text from the activity removing each word that conveys no context information removing each set of equivalent words computing a count of unique words from the activity and computing a content vector and normalized term frequency vector of one or more frequently occurring terms.

Step includes analyzing the context from each user to create a classification for each user. Creating a classification may include analyzing the context of a user activity to construct a frequent term vector and or a feature vector for the user activity Step includes comparing the classification for each user with a classification for each additional user by ordering each user in terms of closeness to each additional user Step includes using the ordering of each user in terms of closeness to each additional user to facilitate a real time virtual interaction between two or more users.

The techniques depicted in can also include providing each user with privacy controls. Also each user can be enabled to communicate with each additional user and navigate one or more three dimensional 3D environments. Communication can include for example using instant message chat and or voice capability. Additionally one or more embodiments of the invention can include generating a ranking of two or more users for a given context based on a distance function wherein the distance function depends on a feature vector.

A user installs the client plug in at the time of its first use. The user may give preferences then or at a later time. As depicted in via the classification extractor the client plug in has the capability to analyze the current web document and extract out the classification of the document and send it to the server side. The classification of a web document may be for example the term frequency or the tag cloud or the collection of links from the web document etc. As described herein one or more embodiments of the invention can upgrade the classification extractor component at will. Whenever the web document currently loaded in a client s web browser changes the classification of the changes is also sent to the server side.

As also depicted by via heart beat the plug in has a component which connects with the server to obtain new presence and possibly other information from the server side sends new classification etc.

The server side a plug in and extensible framework which also includes information services common services tools for composing distance functions and pluggable closeness computation modules can for example compute views for each of the users logged into the server. The views besides including basic services such as chat voice etc. also include the presence information about the users that are considered close to the given user s view. The server side ranks the other users based on their closeness to a given user. Also the ranking distance functions are pluggable and extensible.

The server side also provides application programming interfaces APIs to other sources of information on the internet including the intranet that can help in computing the closeness relationship between the users. Additionally the server side provides and maintains a state for the users and views this also allows the support of 3D views and authenticates the users.

As noted above a client plug in is responsible for the extraction of the classification to be sent to the server that in turn is responsible for computing distance functions between clients to identify dynamic groups in which to put the different users creating categories of user groups or categorizing the users into groups. Also as depicted in the client element includes three components the configurator the protocol handler and the classification extractor .

The configurator module allows the user to specify preferences. Preferences can include but are not limited to switching collaboration mode on off configuring browsing patterns to be excluded from collaboration choosing and ranking classification extractor from the ones registered and registering custom classification extractors.

The protocol handler implements the entire set of interactions with the server using the service API layer . Interactions may include for example authentication a browser event push based for example getting related or close entities and a server event push based for example broadcasting entity relationship changes .

Classification extractors can create a summary of page contents. For example classification extractors can be pushed to the server behind the distance function implementations in situations such as when the server is strongly backed by a web search infrastructure and the URL being browsed not being content dynamic.

Authentication Modules can authenticate for example users communities or automated Bot s . Distance evaluation modules compare the collaboration goals of people and or communities and or programs bots and form and return dynamic groups of users based on similarities of goals. For example a browser event impacting a collaboration goal is pushed through to evaluate any change in corresponding user s inclusion and or exclusion in and or from dynamically formed groups. Multiple such modules may be plugged in to the server wherein the server will evaluate all of them. Also communities and or program bots may statically register their collaboration goals with the server.

Chat and or collaborate modules implement an AJAX and or comet and or continuations based chat framework on the web and allow basic individual and or group chat capabilities amongst the users and or bots dynamically grouped together by the distance evaluation modules.

Progression includes the following steps. Step includes ABC Inc. having an automated agent registered with a server that uses the service API layer using which declares interest in goals that match its product P and associated help scenarios. Step includes ABC Inc s automated agent using varied implementations to provide a high value add support to Alice. For example possible implementations are an automated agent implementing a chat API protocol using ABC s instant messaging and or broadcasting framework to convey incoming chat messages to the support groups that are most relevant to the incoming request and it acting as a middle man transforming between messaging and ABC s messaging protocols.

One or more embodiments of the present invention can be used to bring together people browsing similar content on the worldwide web WWW Users browsing similar content are made visible to each other and are allowed to communicate in real time using text messages.

As described herein a client can be a plug in that is installed in the browser. In an illustrative embodiment for the browser for which a client has been built the techniques described herein using the service API layer allows clients to be plugged into any host application. For example a help desk may be offering collaboration using techniques from an Eclipse based Integrated Development Environment that a user may be using. Also for example the client can reside at the proxy monitoring hypertext transfer protocol http user navigation information thus making it browser independent and removing the plug in installation requirement.

In one or more embodiments of the invention when using a browser plug in a user can log into the server by providing a username and password. As a user navigates the web the classification extractor in the client automatically detects changes in user context for example a web page and extracts content most relevant currently to the user.

Extracting relevant user content may include for example the following steps The document object model DOM can be parsed for the current user page and words contained in paragraphs in the page can be obtained. Words that convey no context information for example a an the of etc. can be removed. Also equivalent words can be converted to the same base word for example eliminating plurals . Additionally a count of the unique words in the page can be computed and words can be sorted by count and a content vector and normalized term frequency vector weight vector of the most frequently occurring terms in the page can be computed.

The content vector and weight vector can be transmitted to the server in order to find other users browsing similar content. If the server finds other users with similar content it groups them together and sends this information back to the client. The client can allow the grouped users to initiate a real time text based conversation for example through the server . To obtain information about newly matched users and messages from other users the client can periodically send a refresh message to the server or depend on server based facilities such as continuations to receive asynchronous updates.

In one or more embodiments of the present invention the server maintains the current state for each user logged into the system. The server periodically receives content and term frequency vectors and uses this information to group similar users together. A vector model described below can be used to match users.

Consider a user U that sends to the server a content vector C that contains k terms C T T . . . T and a corresponding weight vector W W W . . . W . The server computes the similarity between Uand any other user U currently logged in to the server using the following equation 

The above equation evaluates the degree of similarity between two user vectors and can be quantified by the cosine of the angle between the vectors. Once the closest user Uis found that is the user with the highest similarity value the server groups Uand Utogether and creates a buffer that can be used to communicate between them.

In one or more embodiment of the invention users can proactively announce their state including intent. The user may explicitly specify an intent and or goal of what the user is looking for as illustrated by the examples in . The states of users can provide further semantics to compute the best matching people currently on the web.

Also is a diagram illustrating an exemplary client flow according to an embodiment of the present invention. By way of illustration depicts screenshot which includes a pane for a user to move to a Wikipedia page on Pluto. is a diagram illustrating an exemplary client flow according to an embodiment of the present invention. By way of illustration depicts screenshot which includes a pane for a new user moves to a Wikipedia page on Jupiter and a pane for bringing to s view and vice versa. Further is a diagram illustrating an exemplary client flow according to an embodiment of the present invention. By way of illustration depicts screenshot which includes a pane s for facilitating a quick chat between the matched users.

A variety of techniques utilizing dedicated hardware general purpose processors software or a combination of the foregoing may be employed to implement the present invention. At least one embodiment of the invention can be implemented in the form of a computer product including a computer usable medium with computer usable program code for performing the method steps indicated. Furthermore at least one embodiment of the invention can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform exemplary method steps.

At present it is believed that the preferred implementation will make substantial use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation might employ for example a processor a memory and an input and or output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like. In addition the phrase input and or output interface as used herein is intended to include for example one or more mechanisms for inputting data to the processing unit for example mouse and one or more mechanisms for providing results associated with the processing unit for example printer . The processor memory and input and or output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in one or more of the associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and executed by a CPU Such software could include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium for example media providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system for the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory for example memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette for example media a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read and or write CD R W and DVD.

A system preferably a data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input and or output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

In any case it should be understood that the components illustrated herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry one or more appropriately programmed general purpose digital computers with associated memory and the like. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the components of the invention.

At least one embodiment of the invention may provide one or more beneficial effects such as for example utilizing closeness metrics to capture useful relationships between people and determine which relationships are useful in a given situation and or context.

Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

