---

title: Parallel fabrication of nanogaps and devices thereof
abstract: Disclosed are devices comprising multiple nanogaps having a separation of less than about 5 nm. Also disclosed are methods for fabricating these devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918152&OS=08918152&RS=08918152
owner: The Trustees Of The University Of Pennsylvania
number: 08918152
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080213
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2008 053793 filed Feb. 13 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 60 901 360 filed Feb. 13 2007 and U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 60 954 884 filed Aug. 9 2007 the entirety of which applications is incorporated by reference herein.

The Government may have certain rights in the present invention. Research related to the present invention was supported by National Science Foundation Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center Department of Materials Research grant NSF NSEC DMR 0425780 and by National Science Foundation Nanoscale Interdisciplinary Research Team grant NSF NIRT 0304531.

The present invention pertains to the field of materials science. The present invention also pertains to the field of nano scale electronic devices.

Various scientific and patent publications are referred to herein. Each is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Nanoscale gaps have application in circuits transistors chemical sensors magnetic spin valves Josephson junctions and bolometers. However development of a reliable reproducible fabrication process for nanoscale gaps nanogaps useful as contact electrodes is one of the major technological challenges faced in the development of molecular electronics.

While a number of approaches for fabricating such nanogaps have been advanced in recent years there remains no viable method for fabricating a plurality of nanogaps with separations less than about 5 nm regime for producing integrated molecular circuits. Parallel production of such nanogaps would enable their use in applications requiring mass produced devices. Accordingly there is a need in the field for methods for producing nanogaps having separations of less than about 5 nm ideally with high reproducibility.

Disclosed are methods for fabricating a plurality of nanogaps comprising controllably applying a voltage across a plurality of constrictions residing in a conductive material comprising a plurality of ions the constrictions being placed in electrical communication with one another by a conductive material the electrical resistance between neighboring constrictions being less than the electrical resistance across a constriction the controllably applied voltage giving rise to heating within the constrictions the heating within the constrictions giving rise to nanogaps comprising at least two opposing faces and the mean distance between the opposing faces of the nanogaps being less than about 5 nm.

Also disclosed are devices comprising a plurality of nanogaps formed in a first conductive material the nanogaps comprising opposing electrodes the opposing electrodes being separated by less than about 5 nm the opposing electrodes comprising faces and the faces of the opposing electrodes being essentially crystalline.

As used herein electromigration means the transport of material caused by the gradual movement of the ions in a conductor due to the momentum transfer between conducting electrons and diffusing metal atoms

As used herein junction and constriction are used essentially interchangeably and means where two or more sections of one or more materials come together at a narrowed location and are in electrical connection.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific devices methods applications conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term plurality as used herein means more than one. When a range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention that are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges include each and every value within that range.

The present invention first provides methods for fabricating a plurality of nanogaps. These methods include controllably applying a voltage across a plurality of constrictions residing in a conductive material comprising a plurality of ions wherein the constrictions are placed in electrical communication with one another by a conductive material. The electrical resistance between neighboring constrictions is suitably less than the electrical resistance across a constriction.

The controllably applied voltage suitably gives rise to heating within the constrictions and the heating within the constrictions gives rise to increased electron mobility and migration of ions of the conductive material residing at the constrictions so as to form nanogaps having at least two opposing faces wherein the mean distance between the opposing faces of the nanogaps being less than about 5 nm or even less than about 4 nm or even less than about 3 nm or even less than about 2 nm or even less than about 1 nm or even less than about 0.5 nm. The mean distance of the opposing faces is at least 0.1 nm. Further detail is provided elsewhere herein.

Suitable constrictions include at least one narrowed region. An exemplary wedge shaped constriction is shown in where the conductive material is shown to narrow in two directions so as to form a structure with a narrow connection between two broader bodies. A suitably narrowed region includes a characteristic cross sectional dimension of less than about 30 nm or even less than about 25 nm or even less than about 20 nm or even less than about 15 nm or even less than about 10 nm. This characteristic cross sectional dimension is typically greater than about 1 nm. Suitable narrowed regions also include a characteristic width of less than about 100 nm or less than about 80 nm or less than about 60 nm or less than about 40 nm or less than about 20 nm or less than about 15 nm. This characteristic width is typically greater than about 5 nm.

Constrictions are suitably wedge shaped hourglass shaped or wire shaped in structure. Other forms having constrictions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art as is seen in constrictions may be present in a linear configuration of essentially parallel nanogaps.

The constrictions are suitably oriented essentially parallel to one another as shown in . In certain embodiments the constrictions are oriented perpendicular to one another or are otherwise arranged according to the user s needs. The constrictions are also where suitable arranged in three dimensions so as to create three dimensional structures having constrictions in several orientations.

Suitable conductive materials include substances nonreactive to air noble metals oxide conductors high superconducting temperature superconductor colossal magnetic resistive oxides inert alloys graphene multi walled nanotubes or any combination thereof. Suitable noble metals include gold platinum palladium rhodium ruthenium iridium osmium or combinations thereof.

The conductive material is in some embodiments a material capable of reacting with air. In such embodiments the material is suitably sealed against air following fabrication of the nanogaps.

The controllably applied voltage gives rise to heating within the constrictions which heating in turn gives rise to nanogaps at the constrictions. Without being bound to any particular theory of operation it is believed that the heating suitably raises the temperature at the heated constrictions to an onset temperature so as to change the mobility of ions at the constriction and then give rise to electromigration of at least a portion of the ions of the conductive material residing at the narrowed regions of the constrictions.

Without again being bound to any particular theory of operation the electromigration suitably gives rise to displacement of one or more ions of the conductive material from the narrowed regions of the constrictions such that sufficient ions are displaced from the constriction to form nanogaps at the narrowed regions of the constrictions. The displacement of one or more ions of the conductive material from the constrictions suitably causes the destabilization of one or more edges of the constrictions. The nanogaps suitably form simultaneously.

The narrowed regions of the constrictions are suitably separated from one another so as to reduce the effect of the heating of any one constriction on any neighboring constrictions. Such separation distances can be at least about 10 nm at least about 50 nm or at least about 100 nm. The separation distances depend on the materials voltages and other parameters and will vary according to the needs of the user. The optimal separation distance for a given set of conditions will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art.

The electromigration suitably occurs simultaneously within at least two of the constrictions. It is considered especially suitable when the electromigration occurs simultaneously within all of the constrictions.

The nanogaps suitably include at least two opposing faces which faces are suitably essentially crystalline. It is believed without commitment to any particular mechanism that the sequential electromigration of the ions of the conductive material present at the constriction gives rise to the formation of crystalline structures as ions progressively migrate from the constriction.

The mean distance between the opposing faces of the nanogaps fabricated by the present invention is suitably less than about 5 nm. The nanogaps are suitably formed to a degree of precision of about 1 nm or of about 0.5 nm or even of about 0.3 nm.

The voltage is suitably controllably applied under vacuum conditions and is suitably controllably applied at about ambient temperature. The voltage may however be applied under other environmental conditions as dictated by the needs of the user.

The controllably applied voltage is suitably in the range of from about 0.2 V to about 2 V per constriction or in the range of from about 0.5 V to about 1.2 V per constriction or even in the range of from about 0.8 V to about 1 V per constriction. Other voltage ranges are suitable where material properties so require.

Controllably applying the voltage suitably includes increasing the applied voltage until the conductance value of the conductive material changes. The application of the voltage also includes reducing the voltage until the conductance value of the conductive material reaches a desired value. This value is in some embodiments calculated by multiplying the desired conductance of a single nanogap by the number of nanogaps present. Feedback controlled electromigration FCE is considered a suitable method by which to controllably apply the voltage.

The reduction in voltage is suitably performed quickly so as to minimize thermal degradation of the constrictions. In some embodiments the voltage is decreased about ten times faster than the voltage was increased. As one non limiting example the voltage for a given set of constrictions may be increased at about 40 mV s and then reduced at about 400 mV s.

where the resistance Rof junction j is increasing due to electromigration and Pis the power dissipated at one of the other N 1 junctions. Thus as the resistance Rat a first constriction j increases as the voltage is controllably applied the power Pdissipated at a different constriction increases at a greater rate than the power Pdissipated at the first constriction.

The junction resistances Rand Rare all roughly equal to one another. Thus the first term in equation 2 is zero to lowest order. The remaining term in equation 2 requires that R

The electrical resistance between neighboring constrictions is suitably less than the electrical resistance across a constriction. This condition in turn permits satisfaction of the stability condition set forth in equation 1 .

In some embodiments at least a portion of the conductive material placing two or more nanogaps in electrical communication is removed transformed or both. This is suitably performed so as to reduce electrical communication between two or more of the nanogaps. In some embodiments it is performed so as to physically separate two or more nanogaps. Such separate nanogaps may then be individually electrically addressed. In other embodiments it may be preferable to leave some but not all nanogaps in electrical connection with one another.

A non limiting representation of this removal process is shown in which depicts a scheme for fabricating separate nanogaps using sacrificial material. shows constrictions formed from a first material and connected by a second material. shows the nanogaps formed by electromigration within the constrictions and lastly shows the separated nanogaps following removal of the second material. As is seen from the figure nanogaps can thus be fabricated and then individually separated for further processing or integration into a larger device.

Removal of the conductive material is suitably accomplished by chemical etching ablating or other methods known to those having ordinary skill in the art. The transformation of the conductive material is suitably accomplished by selective oxidation or by other methods known to those having ordinary skill in the art.

The plurality of nanogaps fabricated according to the present method is also within the scope of the invention.

Also disclosed are devices. The disclosed devices include a plurality of nanogaps formed in a first conductive material the nanogaps comprising opposing electrodes the opposing electrodes being separated by less than about 5 nm or any of the nanogap dimensions disclosed herein the opposing electrodes comprising faces and the faces of the opposing electrodes being essentially crystalline.

Material suitable for use as the first conductive material are described elsewhere herein and include substances nonreactive to air noble metals oxide conductors high Tc superconductors a colossal magnetic resistive oxide inert alloys graphene multi walled nanotubes or any combination thereof. Suitable noble metals are described elsewhere herein.

The separation distance between opposing electrodes of any nanogap suitably varies by less than about 0.3 nm from the mean opposing electrode separation of the plurality of nanogaps. In other embodiments the separation distance between opposing electrodes of any nanogap varies by less than about the characteristic cross sectional dimension of a single atom of the conductive material from the mean opposing electrode separation of the plurality of nanogaps.

In the devices the nanogap electrodes may suitably have the same or different conductances. The electrodes may be composed of electrically conductive metals such as copper silver or gold or may be a semiconducting material such as silicon gallium arsenide and the like.

In some embodiments a second conducting material places two or more nanogaps in electrical communication with one another as depicted in . The second conducting material suitably the same as the first conducting material but in some embodiments the second conducting material is different than the first conducting material. The second conducting material is suitably capable of being evaporated dissolved or melted. Suitable second conducting materials include chromium aluminum or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the second conducting material is chosen such that it is capable of being removed transformed or both so as to reduce electrical communication between two or more nanogaps. Second conducting materials capable of being selectively removed selectively transformed or both without affecting the first conducting material are considered especially suitable.

Suitable devices also include one or more molecules residing within one or more nanogaps. In some embodiment such molecules provide additional functionality to the device. As non limiting examples the molecules are capable of detecting the presence of other complementary molecules or of altering the electrical characteristics of the device based on interactions with other molecules.

Amines are considered suitable molecules and include 1 4 diaminobenzene 2 7 diaminofluorene 4 4 0 diaminobiphenyl 1 3 propanediamine N N dimethylpropane 1 3 diamine and N N N N tetramethylpropane 1 3 diamine 1 4 butanediamine or any combination thereof. Amines can suitably include an aromatic ring.

In certain embodiments one or more of the nanogaps is individually electrically addressable. This is depicted in where three individually addressable nanogaps are shown.

As described elsewhere herein the nanogaps may oriented essentially parallel to one another as shown in . In other embodiments the constrictions are oriented perpendicular to one another or are otherwise arranged according to the user s needs. The nanogaps are also where suitable arranged in three dimensions so as to create three dimensional structures that present nanogaps in several orientations.

The present invention also includes sensors displays electrical circuits detectors imaging devices nanocrystal devices tuned plasmonic wave guides magnetic spin valves or electrical circuits of colloidal aggregate devices that include the nanogaps disclosed herein. The disclosed nanogaps are also suitable for incorporation into metamaterials.

The following examples and illustrative embodiments are representative only and do not necessarily limit the scope of the present invention.

FCE samples consisting of a thin narrow gold junction connected to thick gold leads were fabricated using electron beam lithography and angle evaporation. Electron beam lithography was used to pattern two electrodes whose ends were separated by 150 nm. For samples comprising an array junctions were spaced by about 600 nm. A bi layer resist system was selected to guarantee a large undercut region such that angle evaporation could be used to form the thin narrow junction underneath a suspended resist bridge. The lower resist layer comprised 500 nm of a copolymer MicroChem Corp EL9 while the upper layer comprised 100 nm of polymethylmethacrylate PMMA MicroChem 950PMMAC2 .

After electron beam exposure the pattern was developed in a 3 1 solution of isopropanol and methyl isobutyl ketone for 45 seconds. Thin film deposition was performed in a thermal evaporator base pressure below 10Torr equipped with a rotating sample stage. Metallization consisted of about 3 nm Cr deposited normal to the substrate about 12 nm Au deposited with the sample rotated by about 11 to form the thin metal junction and finally about 30 nm gold deposited normal to the substrate.

In response to an increase in overall resistance the active feedback loop adjusted V thereby tracing out the single junction electromigration G V curve illustrated in . The smooth decrease in G over as many as 11 orders of magnitude reflected the controlled electromigration process where thermal runaway and stochastic breaking of the nanogap are avoided.

If this approach is scaled up by simply connecting two leads together FCE consistently failed to make uniform nanogaps in parallel. Instead gaps formed sequentially as in the G V curve of . Sequential gap formation was observed in 4 out of 4 trials. It is believed without being bound to any one theory that this behavior was due to the inherent variability of nanolithography. That is one of the thin junctions e.g. junction 1 having resistance R would begin to experience electromigration at a smaller applied voltage than the other junction the junction having resistance R . As a result junction 1 would undergo controlled electromigration until one nanogap is formed and the resistance of the parallel combination of the two junctions then becomes pinned at R. At this point the voltage increases sharply and the second junction fails in an abrupt uncontrollable break.

Due to the sequential nature of the process at some point the junction resistances differed by orders of magnitude junction 1 being in the tunnel regime with R h 2e 12 k while Rremains at its initial value near 4 and simultaneous control over both junctions was impossible. An additional consideration is that the first nanogap was subjected to a large voltage after it is formed which large voltage can alter the gap. Further undesirable melting indicated by a spherical build up of gold at the gap edge was discernible by scanning electron microscopy SEM in some of the sequentially formed junctions as seen in .

Parallel FCE can be obtained by considering the variation in the power dissipated at each junction upon a change in the resistance of the weaker junction R. As Rincreases due to electromigration the power Pdissipated in Rmust increase at a greater rate than Psuch that

When equation 3 is fulfilled for a suitable system the electromigration naturally balances between the two junctions and they can evolve together. Thus equation 3 represents an essential stability criterion for parallel electromigration. Returning to the simple case of the power dissipated by Ris unaffected by changes in Rwhen the lead resistance Ris much larger than both Rand R so that the stability condition is clearly not satisfied.

A circuit design that resulted in an effectively parallel FCE process is shown in . In this case the junctions shared a common series lead resistance Rand were connected together by low resistances R. As discussed elsewhere herein when R

The described process was extended to the parallel formation of larger arrays of nanogaps as demonstrated with the 16 junction array pictured in . The G V diagram measured during FCE of the 16 junction array is shown in

The electromigration process of the array was remarkably similar to that of the single junction . The time required for the FCE process was essentially the same as the time required for the single junction case while the measured currents and voltages were scaled up by the number of junctions as expected. shows images of the resulting nanogaps which are in good agreement with other reports of SEM images of individual nanogaps formed by electromigration. SEM images of the present invention did not have sufficient resolution to determine the final distribution of gap sizes. For this reason it is believed that the single smooth FCE process of the array is currently the best indication that the nanogaps evolve in parallel. The future development of arrays compatible with transmission electron microscopy and satisfying the stability condition equation 3 will enable the direct determination of the nanogap distribution.

Further evidence that this circuit design leads to parallel FCE of the junctions was seen from an analysis of the bulk neck regime. The bulk neck regime is characterized by a constant critical power P dissipated at the junction which triggers electromigration.

Without being bound to any one theory of operation it is believed that this analysis implies R R P I such that a plot of R versus 1 Ishould be linear with a slope equal to the power dissipation. As shown in this relationship held when the junction resistance was relatively low with observable deviations from bulk behavior when the conductance of the junction became less than 30G. A similar deviation occurred for the case of two junctions in parallel and for 16 junctions when the array conductance was less than 30Gper junction. This was indicative of a characteristic change in the nanogap evolution when its conductance fell below 30Gcorresponding to a gold metallic contact with diameter of about 1.5 nm or approximately six atoms assuming each atom contributed conductance G and that the atomic radius of gold is about 0.14 nm . The range of critical powers found from the fits in was within the typical variability of device parameters. Not being bound to any single theory it is believed that the decrease in critical power per junction with increasing N indicated the effect of heating from other nearby junctions.

Without again being bound to any single theory of operation it is believed that the arrangement having electrical shorts may not be compatible with the single ramp technique. Because of the resistance R the applied voltage needed to initiate electromigration increases with the number of junctions. Thus as the nanogaps open and their resistances increase during the single ramp procedure it is believed that the applied voltage will fall almost completely across the open nanogaps which may lead to damage and a result in a majority of gaps having spacings in excess of 0.5 microns .

Melting was discerned by scanning electron microscopy SEM of certain gaps formed through the sequential electromigration process. The spherical build up of gold shown in evidenced such melting.

As contrasted with FCE the majority of junctions in an array of electrically shorted gold junctions with low inter junction resistances were destroyed by single ramp voltage application process. The resulting gaps exhibited a range of gap sizes with the majority 9 out of 16 having widths larger than about 0.5 microns 500 nm as illustrated in .

Controlling the flow and interaction of light on a size scale smaller than its wavelength may be significant for nano photovoltaic applications. This is due to the possibilities of guiding the flow of its energy and strongly coupling light to devices on the nanometer scale with the possible implications for directing light energy towards nano scale photovoltaic and other light activated devices.

Examples of such approaches are nano arrays and dimers which funnel and focus the energy derived from light. Specifically dimers as in have received widespread interest due to the extreme field enhancement that occurs at the location of closest proximity in the nanogap region between the two colloids. The techniques of Hongxing Xu Javier Aizpurua Mikael Kall et al. Phys. Rev. E 62 4318 2000 can be applied hererin.

Other work has shown that plasmonic resonances can be finely tuned through hybridization of the individual colloid resonances through the fine tuning of the nanogap distance between the colloids. The techniques of Tolga Atay Jung Hoon Song and Arto V. Nurmikko Nano Lett. 4 1627 2004 Matthias Danckwerts and Lukas Novotny Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 026104 2007 can be applied herein. Arrays of such nano dimers could be used to funnel light energy of specific frequencies in various directions within a single chip and superfocusing it down to individual photovoltaics or devices. The techniques of A. A. Lalayan K. S. Bagdasaryan P. G. Petrosyan et al. J. Appl. Phys. 91 2965 2002 can be applied hererin. This could enable a more efficient use of the entire radiation spectrum since energy could be directed only towards the nano scale devices on the chip most suitable for that frequency. Though advances have been made the challenge of fine tuning the atomic scale critical dimensions of the colloidal gap sizes to achieve precise control over the necessary near field coupling between adjacent colloids and dimmers remains. The techniques of Tolga Atay Jung Hoon Song and Arto V. Nurmikko Nano Lett. 4 1627 2004 Stefan A. Maier Mark L. Brongersma Pieter G. Kik et al. Adv. Mater. 13 1501 2001 can be applied herein.

The disclosed nanogap arrays could be used as plasmon wave guides and as superfocusing junctions. One such array of 16 junctions is shown in where the nanogaps were formed simultaneously in a controlled electromigration procedure. The major benefit of this array is that it contains nano scale junctions that can be tuned in size thus in turn allowing fine tuning of the plasmon resonances. The techniques of Hiroharu Tamaru Hitoshi Kuwata Hideki T. Miyazaki et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 80 1826 2002 can be applied herein.

To use the array as a wave guide portions of the bulk leads in which join up to the nano junctions could be selectively etched away so as to force the plasmons to either zigzag up and down along the array or to travel between adjacent nanogaps . Used in this way the array acts as a chain of metallic dots with a highly tunable inter dot near field coupling.

The array of nanogaps could also be used to electrostatically trap very small dimers that are formed in solution with an intervening molecule. This is similar to a recent technique developed to fabricate single molecule transistors T. Dadosh Y. Gordin R. Krahne et al. Nature 436 677 2005 as illustrated in which can be applied herein.

After the dimmer array is constructed through electrostatic trapping the array can be used as a wave guide with a precisely tuned resonance frequency determined by the molecular spacer. The work with colloidal dimers can also be extended to larger more complex structures of colloids through aggregation in solution. In addition arrays of small dimer structures could find utility in improving surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy of single molecules and in applications towards meta materials. The techniques of A. N. Grigorenko A. K. Geim H. F. Gleeson et al. Nature 438 335 2005 can be applied herein. Also the well formed facetted edges as shown in can be suited for superfocusing of the plasmonic modes at nano scale devices or photovoltaics. In this regard the techniques of A. A. Lalayan K. S. Bagdasaryan P. G. Petrosyan et al. J. Appl. Phys. 91 2965 2002 can be applied herein.

Single molecule electronics may greatly increase transistor speed decrease transistor size and act as highly specific chemical sensors. Due to their small size slight structural variations of molecular devices can cause drastic changes in behavior by affecting tunnel barriers capacitive charging energies stability and ability to gate. Thus making reproducible molecular devices is a significant challenge and such devices are susceptible to many artifacts. Control over the atomic scale structure of molecular devices is thus of importance.

One approach is to bridge a molecule between two colloidal gold spheres in solution to form a dimer structure and then to bridge this between 50 nm spaced electrodes so that the colloidal spheres form extensions of the leads. A benefit of this method is that the dimer is formed in solution so that it naturally accommodates the molecule s size and shape. However because the 30 nm colloidal spheres screen the applied electric fields from the gate forming a transistor with this technique poses significant challenges.

A solution to this is to use smaller 3 nm diameter colloidal spheres and to combine this with electromigrated nanogap electrodes of the present invention. The electrodes have a reproducible separation less than 5 nm and could easily be bridged by dimers formed by 3 nm colloids. The smaller spheres will significantly reduce the screening of the molecule so that gating and consequently formation of a transistor should be possible. In addition the smaller masses of the colloids should result in stiffer dimers with much less variability of their structure.

Large magnetoresistive effects in nanometer scale magnetic leads have been reported and could be of considerable technological importance as quantum spin valves and in molecular devices made from magnetic leads. The techniques of A. N. Pasupathy R. C. Bialczak J. Martinek et al. Science 306 86 2004 can be applied herein. The controlled electromigration techniques described herein can be used to make atomic scale magnetic devices anchored to a substrate. These techniques significantly reduces spurious magnetostrictive effects where device geometry is altered due to the interaction with applied fields. The results indicate that the atomic scale structure of these junctions can significantly alter the magnetoresistance of the devices by altering the nanometer scale magnetic domain structure or by altering the current injection angles near to the junction.

Highly crystalline nanogaps of the present invention formed using the controlled electromigration on membrane could be used in magnetic spin valves. The clean crystal planes that are formed through the controlled electromigration process as is evident in provide highly ordered and reproducible surfaces to control the magnetic domain orientation in the leads.

Furthermore the surface migration mechanism that occurs in the evolution of metallic nano junctions also permits precise nano structure formation of colossal magnetoresistive CMR oxides even though they are brittle materials. This enables spin transport studies to the nano scale of these important materials.

Here we provide a novel technique to form these junctions in brittle materials which are not easily formed into these atomic scale structures by pulling. The technique relies on fabricating a narrow constriction within the brittle material and then using computer controlled electromigration CCE to gently form a crystalline nano scale junction. A major advantage of our technique is that these junctions should be highly crystalline due to an unzipping process which cleans up the crystal surfaces.

Hereinabove is described the dynamics of the formation of nano scale junctions using real time imaging of CCE. The results indicate an evolution based on a simple unzipping model. shows the evolution of a gold nano junction as it is electromigrated. The important characteristic to notice amongst the six images is that as the nano electrode is electromigrated it is pinched in along crystal planes. The evolution of the crystal planes is well described by a simple unzipping model we have recently proposed. This model is illustrated in . At a critical temperature the edge atoms are excited as shown in . These excitations are easily pushed to the side by the applied current which leaves a vacancy that is unstable towards further excitation and electromigration. Thus a layer by layer removal of the edge of the lead occurs that results in a crystalline nanometer scale junction.

One difference between CCE and pulling a nano scale junction is that the center of mass of each lead on either side of the junction is kept fixed with respect to the other in the former case. In contrast when a junction is pulled the center of mass of each lead is pulled with respect to the other. This requires major readjustments of the crystal structure near the vicinity of the junction which is not achievable for brittle materials. In the case of CCE only the least bound edge ions are excited and moved thus avoiding the need for any major crystal rearrangements. As a result the CCE technique is applicable to forming nano scale junctions in a much broader array of materials including materials that are brittle.

Applying the CCE technique to brittle materials uses a modified procedure. Consider the device represented by the schematic of where a brittle material is connected by two metallic leads. A schematic of such a nanometer scale structure conveys the fact that the lines are not nearly straight on roughly the sub 30 nm size scale as depicted in . The problem is that by attempting to electromigrate the structure of instead of forming a narrow junction within the brittle material the junction appears near the contact between the metallic contact and the brittle material. Without being bound by any particular theory of operation the reason for this is partly due to the fact that the ion and electron mobility of the metallic lead is typically much larger than those of the brittle material. In addition the region most susceptible to electromigration is the joining region where changes in material properties and temperature gradients are greatest.

To overcome the deleterious electromigration at the metallic contact a nano lithographically formed constriction within the brittle material is first fabricated. This will cause the region of greatest temperature and current density to be well within the region of the brittle material and far away from the metallic contact. The constriction that is formed will not have well ordered crystalline surfaces due to limitations with nano lithography as represented in . However once there is a constriction that can allow the least bound edge ions to be dislodged according to the model of the edges of the constriction will unzip and form crystalline surfaces. By utilizing CCE this method can be continued until a suitable nano scale junction is formed with crystal surfaces despite the fact that the initial constriction was not atomically smooth.

Electromigrating Brittle Materials Details of Methods to Fabricate Nano Junctions in Brittle Materials.

Several techniques are provided to form the required narrow constriction in a brittle material that allows CCE to achieve an ordered nano scale junction.

For thin films of brittle material that may be achieved through several techniques such as pulsed laser deposited molecular beam epitaxial MBE deposition or scotch tape thinning the appropriate narrow constriction can be achieved through standard electron beam nano lithography. Starting with a sheet of the brittle material metallic electrodes can be placed at the ends as depicted in . At this stage electron beam lithography can be used to cover the entire structure with e beam resist except for two wedge shaped regions in the middle of the bridge. These wedge shaped regions can then be removed by ion milling chemical etching or reactive ion etching to leave the structure shown in

Starting with a nano wire two metallic leads can be connected to the ends as shown in by using standard electron beam lithography. A narrowed constriction in the nano wire can be obtained by milling with a focused ion beam FIB . Alternatively one could also use electron beam lithography to place resist everywhere except for a thin 100 nm wide strip in the middle of the wire. Then ion milling chemical etching or reactive ion etching could then be used to partially remove the nanowire material in the strip region leaving a narrowed constriction there. The unzipping process has been demonstrated in narrow Au wires. This technique can be further applied to other materials such as a graphene sheet that has a lithographically defined narrow constriction.

As the size scale of electronics decreases the utility of nano scale junctions will increase. Two applications of the electromigrated nano junctions in brittle materials relate to graphene and high Tc superconductors both of which are brittle materials. Below is outlined applications of nano junctions in several brittle materials.

Single layers of graphene have recently received great interest due to the fact that it is the essential component of carbon nanotubes. The excitement stems from the fact that graphene could be utilized to form devices similar to carbon nanotubes but without the inherent difficulty in placement and sorting. Nanotube like devices can be lithographically fabricated directly from a sheet of graphene so that they can be integrated directly into nano electronics. Fabricating such devices requires strict control over the atomic scale details of the edge of the graphene sheet. The methods described herein are capable of forming and controlling the edge of a graphene sheet that is formed into a nano scale junction. In one embodiment of the fabrication technique the resulting contacts are also made of graphene. Graphene contacts avoids problems associated with Schottky barriers which can plague devices made of carbon nanotubes. Furthermore since CCE migrates ions along the high mobility crystal directions as shown in the processes disclosed herein are capable of producing graphene devices that are highly reproducible since they will be determined by the underlying crystallinity of the graphene. Fabricating devices from graphene represents a major benefit over the random construction of carbon nanotube devices that are currently constructed.

High Tc superconductors have many potential electronic uses such as Josephson junctions low impedance nano scale interconnects and bolometers. Yet the brittleness of these materials has hindered their development. The techniques described herein provide a method for developing novel nano scale circuitry out of these materials.

These brittle materials that are structurally related to the high Tc superconductors have received widespread attention over the last decade due to their huge magnetoresistive behavior. By forming nano scale junctions which have recently been investigated for their magnetoresistive behavior utilizing CCE novel spintronic devices can be fabricated using the techniques described herein.

Without being bound by any limiting theory of operation we outline the theory of one embodiment for the formation of parallel nanogaps. In this embodiment the nanogaps are achieved through a novel arrangement of leads that incorporate electrical shorts close to the location of the desired nanogaps. This novel arrangement is modeled to show that it permits parallel nanogap formation. This theory is extended to a methodology to construct a large array of independent devices that utilizes sacrificial electrical shorts. To this end a multi angle evaporation scheme is also formulated to construct the appropriate arrangement of nanogap junctions and electrical shorts. In this scheme the thermal length sets the maximum density of nanogaps which can be engineered to make high density arrays. These processes enable the development of complex molecular scale circuitry nanogap arrays for field emitter displays and ultra high resolution detectors and sensors.

In one embodiment a single nano electrode can be approximated well by resistors in series as it is electromigrated to form a nanogap Rdue to the leads and Rrepresenting a narrowed constriction where the nanogap forms. As the nanogap forms Rincreases and the power dissipation in the gap region changes. This causes a temperature change in the region of nanogap formation and leads to a change in the mobility and thus the electromigration of metal atoms. Electromigration occurs when a critical power dissipation occurs across the forming nanogap region and can be interpreted as a critical temperature being reached in this region. In order to prevent thermal runaway in the gap forming region a computer controlled feedback can be used to actively control the applied voltage across the total resistance R R. This feedback monitors the threshold during ramping defined as Th R R where R is the measured resistance of the entire circuit. Computer controlled feedback is used to avoid thermal runaway when R R. At early stages of the electromigration Ris typically about 100 and Rabout 4 so that R Rand controlled feedback can prevent thermal runaway.

Two nanogaps can electromigrate in parallel using the same computer controlled feedback technique as used for a single junction. In this case the circuit is modeled as shown in where the gap resistances are Rand R while we have assumed equal lead resistances for the two parallel leads. Using this circuit model we can calculate the power dissipated at each gap Pand P. Since it is difficult to fabricate truly identical initial weak links where the nanogaps will form one of the junctions will usually be weaker than the other. As we ramp the voltage up across the parallel gaps the weaker junction will therefore begin to electromigrate and increase in resistance. Assuming the weaker junction occurs at lead 1 this will yield an increase in R. We now ask how the power across each junction changes as Rincreases which is simply proportional to the partial derivative P Rand the cross partial derivative P R. For the circuit of it can be calculated that P R P R. This means that the temperature rises faster in the weaker junction as it is electromigrated. This is an unstable scenario for simultaneous nanogap formation and is typically not used for parallel fabrication.

To have stable parallel electromigration the temperature and also the power dissipation must rise faster in the stronger of the two junctions while the weaker is electromigrating. Thus we propose the criterion 1 

A more realistic model includes the finite resistances of the shorts as pictured in . We find details not shown that if the resistance of the shorts is less than the junctions so that 4 

then the stability condition Eq. 1 is satisfied. If we extend the model to N junctions in parallel as pictured in we find that Eq. 4 is again the requirement for stable parallel electromigration. Thus low resistance shorts will permit stable parallel formation through electromigration.

The use of shorts permits the construction of nanogap arrays. In many applications the nanogaps need to be electrically isolated from one another. Independent nanogap devices can be made by utilizing sacrificial shorts made of materials differing from the main electrode so that they can be selectively etched or oxidized away after the parallel electromigration. A schematic of this method is represented in .

A method we propose to fabricate the junctions and sacrificial shorts is illustrated in . This is a method to fabricate parallel nanogaps shorted together with sacrificial shorts using multi angle evaporation through a shadow mask that avoids covering the nanogap regions. The method comprises 1 the deposition of the leads with weak junctions and 2 the deposition of sacrificial shorts at a different angle so as to avoid covering the nanogap region. To this end a resist layer is first spin coated onto a supporting substrate and either an electron beam or light is exposed within the solid line pattern of . denoted by substrate . In these regions the resist can be easily removed down to the substrate surface with the appropriate solvent whereas in regions far from these areas the resist is not dissolved. Near the exposed areas there is an overhanging portion of resist between the dashed and solid lines denoted by undercut formed from the backscattering of radiation off the surface of the substrate. After this four evaporation steps using two metals A and B permits the construction of the shunted junctions. The first two evaporations are thin layers of the metal A made at angles between the normal to the page and the right and left arrows in . A third thick evaporation normal to the surface of metal A followed by an evaporation of metal B at angle between the normal and the arrow pointing down in the constructs the low resistance shunts. At this point the remaining resist can be lifted off and the junctions electromigrated in parallel. After electromigration the shunts constructed with metal B can be oxidized or etched away with a solution which does not attack metal A leaving an array of electrically separated nanogap junctions.

For use in complex circuits it is also desirable to construct as dense an array of nanogaps as possible. Since the formation of electromigrated nanogaps is strongly tied to the local temperature rise due to the applied current we propose that the local heating length will determine the minimum spacing and thus the highest density of nanogap junctions. Within a radius of roughly from the weak link junction of each lead the temperature will rise appreciably above the ambient temperature of the environment. If two junctions are spaced much closer than this length we expect that a single nanogap will form instead of the intended separate gaps. By constructing the initial wires to promote large temperature gradients near the junctions so that is as small as possible one should be able to engineer higher density arrays of nanogaps. Current experiments suggest that can be as small as 20 nm under certain conditions and we expect that this could possibly be engineered to become several times smaller still.

Parallel electromigration of two nanogap junctions is demonstrated. A sample comprises two weak link junctions on a SiNnitride membrane shown in and labeled as junctions. The dark regions in are the deposited Au while the white regions are the supporting transparent membrane. shows the controlled electromigration of the two gaps in unison using an applied current which is applied from left to right to the structure in . This demonstrates that we are able to electromigrate two nanogaps simultaneously. The electrode design can be further modified to improve the parallel electromigration and to increase the number of nanogaps that can electromigrate in parallel. To this end we have recently fabricated a pair of initial gold junctions on an SiOsubstrate using multi angle evaporation through a shadow mask shown in . After parallel controlled electromigration we have clearly fabricated two separate nanogaps as seen in

In addition to complex nano electronic circuits other possible applications for a nanogap array include uses in novel displays detectors and imaging devices with unsurpassed resolution. This includes the illumination of a phosphor coated screen to emit light in a television display next generation vacuum tube amplification and computation and the generation of X rays in imaging technologies. One major advantage of the nanogap arrays described herein stems from the fact that as the width of a nanogaps is made smaller and the density of nanogap arrays increases the voltage required to scatter tunneling electrons for display applications decreases. Since our nanogap arrays can employ a controlled electromigration technique the system is readily optimized to reduce power consumption. The nanogap arrays described herein will enable low power computer and television displays.

An alternative method is provided for achieving a device capable of achieving a nanogap array in comparison to the methods discussed above. Parallel narrow thin metallic leads made from metal A such as Au are fabricated on top of an insulating substrate as shown in . These leads can be about 100 nm wide or narrower and thinner than 50 nm. Using lithography of a second metal B such as Cr place two large thick pads on top of the entire structure. This will short all the wires together as shown in . The distance between these two large wires should be as small as possible so that the resistance of the short metal leads of A are less than the interjunction resistances of metal B. At this point the self balancing parallel electromigration can be performed to achieve the array of nanogaps in . Using a selective etchant that etches only metal B we can be left with the leads shown in .

A method for controlling individual nanogaps has been achieved by stressing long nano scale wires according to F. O. Hadeed and C. Durkin Appl. Phys. Lett. 91 123120 2007 . This technique can be extended to achieve parallel balanced formation of nanogaps over a limited range. The improved techniques relies on the fact that significant stress is built up in a long wire carrying an electric current due to electromigration forces and the variation of thermal expansion throughout the wire due to joule heating. This stress causes a catastrophic tear in the long nanowire which will induce a void to form in the wire. As the void forms the temperature profile within the wire rapidly changes and the systems switches over to the constant power regime. If the initial wire is long enough the applied voltage required to tear the wire with the induced stress can be very low. This prevents the system from experiencing thermal runaway and results in a stable partially electromigrated constriction that can be described by the constant power model. As the long initial wire could contain the entire voltage drop from the voltage source self balancing will then proceed after the long wire is torn.

This stressing technique can also be extended to the parallel formation of nanogaps as shown in . First long nano wires of metal A are shorted together with a different metal B. Then the long leads are stressed due to electromigration and joule heating which partially tears the wires at one end. If the resistance of the entire lead plus the electrical shorts is less than the partially torn region then parallel self balanced electromigration can be achieved to form nanogaps at the locations of the partial tears. The length of the initial lead L is chosen to achieve this and depends on the tear size L . The two large metallic shorts at the ends can then be selectively etched to achieve an array of separated nanogaps.

Recently another new technique has emerged whereby feedback from an amplifier is incorporated into the circuitry in order to control the formation of a single nanogap. The circuit essentially keeps the voltage fixed across the nanogap by using two nearby sensing leads which sink negligible current and connecting them to a potentiostat. This technique can also be directly applied to the self balancing array of nanogaps by utilizing two voltage leads on either side of the array as close as possible to the nanogaps.

