---

title: Wireless sensing node powered by energy conversion from sensed system
abstract: A sensing system for sensing conditions or characteristics associated with a process or thing. The sensing system includes one or more energy converters and a sensor, which are coupled to the process or thing. A node is coupled to the sensor and the energy-converter, and the node is powered by output from the energy converter. In a more specific embodiment, the node includes a controller that implements one or more routines for selectively powering a wireless transmitter of the node based on a predetermined condition. The predetermined condition may specify that sensor output values are within a predetermined range or are below or above a predetermined threshold. Alternatively, the predetermined condition may specify that electrical energy output from the energy converter is below a predetermined threshold. A remote computer may be wirelessly connected to node and may include software and/or hardware that is adapted to process information output by the sensor and relayed to the computer via the node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07768425&OS=07768425&RS=07768425
owner: Alcoa Technical Center
number: 07768425
owner_city: Alcoa Center
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081112
---
This application is a divisional of the following application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 335 019 entitled WIRELESS SENSING NODE POWERED BY ENERGY CONVERSION FROM SENSED SYSTEM filed on Jan. 18 2006 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 647 176 entitled WIRELESS MEASUREMENT OF OPERATING PARAMETERS filed on Jan. 25 2005 which are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full in this application for all purposes.

This invention is related in general to sensing systems and more specifically to networks used to sense conditions or characteristics associated with a process or thing.

Sensing systems are employed in various demanding applications including alumina processing plant instrumentation wildfire detection and monitoring and weather monitoring and forecasting. Such applications often demand versatile sensing systems that can readily provide valuable information to improve predictions manufacturing techniques and so on.

Versatile and efficient sensing systems are particularly important in aluminum oxide alumina processing applications where extreme operating conditions involving high voltages and temperatures often preclude use of potentially unsafe bulky or cumbersome sensing systems. An exemplary alumina processing plant includes plural aluminum reduction cells also called pots or Hall H roult cells. A Hall H roult cell includes an electrolyte containing alumina. An electrical current passes through the solution between a carbon anode and a carbon cathode causing a chemical reaction between alumina and carbon yielding carbon dioxide gas and aluminum.

Unfortunately conventional sensor systems for measuring Hall H roult cell process characteristics such as temperature cell voltage exhaust gas pressure and so on often require wires that connect the sensors to one or more computers. Additional wires connect the sensors to power sources. The hardware required to implement such sensing systems in Hall H roult cell applications may create safety concerns interfere with existing hardware require excessive maintenance and consume excessive power.

Accordingly Hall H roult cells are often equipped with relatively few sensors due to such problems. Consequently sensed data that could yield improvements in cell energy efficiency is often unavailable.

Embodiments of the invention provide a sensing system for sensing conditions or characteristics associated with a process or thing such as but not limited to an aluminum reduction process occurring in a Hall H roult cell. The sensing system includes one or more energy converters which may include a thermoelectric generator. The sensing system further includes at least one sensor that is coupled to the process or thing i.e. the sensed system as distinct from the sensing system . A node which is associated with a wireless transmitter receiver or a mote processor radio is coupled to the sensor and the energy converter. The node is powered by output from the energy converter which is also coupled to the process or thing.

Energy can be obtained from any suitable property characteristic or effect of the sensed system. For example heat vibration chemical electrical magnetic electromagnetic nuclear gravitational or other characteristics of the sensed system may be used as an energy source. Differentials in temperature pressure electrical charge acidity flux etc. can be used to derive energy for powering various components or functions in various embodiments of the invention. One or more characteristics of the sensed system can be used to provide a power source to one or more sensors nodes or other components. Components can sense characteristics that are the same or different from the characteristics used to provide power.

In the specific embodiment the node includes a controller that implements one or more routines for selectively adjusting power to a wireless transmitter of the node in response to a predetermined condition. The predetermined condition may specify that sensor output values are within a predetermined range or below or above a predetermined threshold. Alternatively the predetermined condition may specify that electrical energy output from the energy converter is below a predetermined threshold. A remote computer may include one or more routines that are adapted to process information output by the sensor and forwarded to the computer by the transmitter included in the node.

In a more specific embodiment the system includes an apparatus comprising a sensor for sensing a characteristic of a process a thermoelectric generator having first and second temperature sources wherein the first temperature source is obtained from the material or object being sensed by the sensor and a wireless transmitter coupled to the thermoelectric generator and the sensor wherein the wireless transmitter obtains power from the thermoelectric generator for transmitting an indication of the sensed characteristic from the sensor to a receiver.

Another embodiment provides a method for obtaining a sensor reading the method comprising using a thermoelectric generator to generate electrical energy wherein the thermoelectric generator obtains heat from a source using a sensor to measure a characteristic of the source and using a wireless transmitter powered by the electrical energy to transmit the measured characteristic.

Another embodiment includes attaching e.g. with a magnet the thermoelectric generator to a hot surface on the cell exterior so as to provide electrical power to a sensor wireless transmitter that is integral with the generator or nearby and electrically connected to it the sensor measuring some process variable such as the heat flux from the exterior of the cell.

Hence embodiments of the present invention provide an efficiently powered sensing system that obviates the need for potentially dangerous wires and power sources. Embodiments of the present invention may provide a relatively safe and cost effective sensing platform that provides minimal interference with accompanying plant operations. Furthermore the sensing system may reduce energy consumption and associated costs by efficiently utilizing waste energy from existing processes.

For clarity various well known components such as amplifiers communications ports Internet Service Providers ISPs and so on have been omitted from the figures. However those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings will know which components to implement and how to implement them to meet the needs of a given application.

The sensor node includes a node controller which communicates with a power converter and receives input from an Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The node controller also communicates with a node transceiver . The node controller transceiver and ADC are powered by output from the power converter . The node transceiver implements a wireless transmitter and receiver for transmitting and receiving wireless signals to and from a computer transceiver of the computer . One skilled in the art may implement the power converter via a step up DC DC converter.

In the present specific embodiment the controller runs various software and or hardware including a Tiny OS Operating System which supports Tiny DB DataBase . The power converter receives control signals from the controller which may be generated via various routines including Tiny DB routines that selectively control power output from the power converter to the transceiver ADC and various sensors as discussed more fully below.

In the present specific embodiment the node controller employs custom software running on the Tiny OS which implements the Tiny DB Application Programming Interface API software and further executes the following actions which also accommodate sensing systems with multiple nodes as discussed more fully below 

1 Presents a setup Graphical User Interface GUI for a user to select and input various variables such as but not limited to sampling frequency etc. and to select process parameters such as temperature to monitor.

2 Displays received data from each node including the date and time query number each node s identification number selected process parameters thermoelectric generator power output information and information pertaining to a parent node over which the node hopped across to reach the computer as discussed more fully below. 3 Stores the received data into a spreadsheet format and or text file. 4 Creates a new file for every 12 hours and statistically analyzes the previous file. 5 May run three separate GUIs that a display the current node statistics b illustrate a real time network visualization between each node and the central computer and c allow the operator to monitor an individual node s sensed values over a specified period of time.

The Tiny DB may implement a query processing system for extracting information from a network of nodes as discussed more fully below of which the sensor node may be a part. The Tiny DB may be implemented via a readily available programmable application that provides various features including 

3 Provides a Java API Application Programming Interface for simplifying the coding of Personal Computer PC applications.

4 Provides the ability to autonomously network an ad hoc assortment of nodes and to route data from the nodes via hopping to a central server such as the computer .

5 Provides power efficient algorithms which place an accompanying node such as the sensor node automatically into a low power sleep mode when the node is not collecting transmitting or receiving data.

The power converter receives input from a thermoelectric generator layer that is sandwiched between a hot plate and a heat sink of the thermoelectric generator assembly . The hot plate heat sink and thermoelectric generator layer may be attached to the object or system being sensed by magnets . For illustrative purposes the power converter is also shown receiving input from the cell voltage measuring device .

The ADC receives analog input from sensors including the temperature measuring device which acts as a temperature sensor and the cell voltage measuring device which acts as a voltage and or current sensor. In an alternative operative scenario the cell voltage measuring device also provides electrical energy to the power converter to facilitate powering the node and accompanying sensor as needed.

The ADC converts analog inputs into digital signals which are provided to the node controller . The node controller may store resulting digitized sensed data and or may forward the sensed data to the computer . In the present specific embodiment the analog inputs include cell current and cell voltage between an anode conductor and a cathode conductor of the cell . The analog inputs further include sensed temperature data from the thermistor .

The hot plate of the thermoelectric generator assembly is thermally coupled to thermally conductive extension which may be constructed via various materials such as but not limited to copper. The extension extends from the hot plate to within an exhaust duct of the cell and conducts heat therebetween. The thermistor is connected to the end of the conductive extension and is exposed to the interior of the exhaust duct . Sensed temperature data pertaining to the temperature inside the exhaust duct is forwarded to the ADC of the node .

The computer includes a user interface and sensor network software including cell analysis routines for selectively querying the sensor node for analyzing sensed data from the sensor node for implementing Application Programming Interfaces APIs for implementing server functions for enabling programmability via Java and so on. Exact details of the functionality and hardware and or software of the computer are application specific and may be adjusted by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Exact connection details between modules such as modules are application specific and may be changed to meet the needs of a given application without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example output from the cell voltage measuring device may not be input to the power converter of the node in certain applications. Furthermore some modules may be omitted or the locations of certain modules may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example the cell voltage measuring device may be omitted and or the power converter may be positioned separately from the node .

In operation the thermoelectric generator assembly converts heat energy from within the exhaust duct into electrical energy which is provided to the power converter of the node via a power signal . For the purposes of the present discussion electrical energy may be any energy provided via electrical current a voltage differential or via a wireless electromagnetic energy. The hot plate and the relatively cool heat sink provide a sufficient temperature differential to enable the thermoelectric generator layer to provide sufficient output power to power the node . Power provided by the thermoelectric generator assembly may also be used to power sensors such as the thermistor which may require additional power input as discussed more fully below.

The node controller runs routines for controlling the power i.e. electrical energy provided to the node transceiver based on sensed data reported from the sensors power levels provided by the thermoelectric generator assembly and so on. The node controller may run routines for only powering on the transceiver when sensed data from the sensors and or the power levels provided by the thermoelectric generator assembly meet predetermined criteria as discussed more fully below. Such criteria may be adjusted to meet the needs of a given application.

The software running on the node controller may be programmed via an external computer such as the computer that may plug into the node or may otherwise wirelessly communicate with the node . Use of Tiny OS and accompanying Java functionality facilitate node programmability.

Hence the system implements a system for obtaining information pertaining to a process or thing. In the present embodiment the process is a Hall H roult aluminum reduction process implemented via the cell . The system implements a first mechanism for employing energy from the Hall H roult aluminum reduction process to generate a signal corresponding to the power signal and or the voltage signal output by the thermoelectric generator assembly and or the cell voltage measuring device respectively. For the purposes of the present discussion a power signal may be any signal sufficient to power a circuit or other device. Power represents electrical energy per unit time.

A second mechanism senses a condition pertaining to the process or thing and provides sensed information in response thereto. A third mechanism collects the sensed information. A fourth mechanism employs the signal to power the second mechanism and or the third mechanism as needed.

The third mechanism includes the sensor node . For the purposes of the present discussion a sensor node may be any device that communicates with one or more other devices via one or more communications links where the device is connected to a sensor.

The energy from the Hall H roult aluminum reduction process used to power the system represents waste energy. For the purposes of the present discussion waste energy may be any energy that is not fully utilized by a process or device. Examples of waste energy include but are not limited to excess heat vibration and gas pressure associated with an alumina reduction cell such as the cell . In the present specific embodiment the waste energy employed by the system is heat energy from the exhaust duct and or excess electrical energy from the cell as provided by the cell voltage measuring device . Other types and or sources of energy may be employed by the system without departing from the scope thereof. For example other forms of waste heat such as heat conducted through walls or the bottom of the cell may be employed to generate electrical energy.

Various sensors may be included addition to the temperature sensor i.e. thermistor and the voltage sensor as discussed more fully below. Examples of additional sensors include a chemical sensor a gas flow sensor a voltage sensor and or a current sensor.

The node controller runs software which is adapted to selectively adjust power to the wireless transceiver based on one or more predetermined conditions. In the present specific embodiment the predetermined conditions include a power level associated with the power signal being below a predetermined threshold. When this occurs the power provided to the node transceiver is reduced or shut off. The predetermined conditions may also include sensor output status. For the purposes of the present discussion sensor output status may include information pertaining to the output of a sensor including magnitudes of sensed data values existence of sensed data sensed data values as compared to specific thresholds and so on.

For example in the present operative scenario if the temperature reported by the thermistor is outside of a desired range the controller may adjust or calibrate various operating conditions or parameters of the node and or accompanying sensors to bring temperature measurements within range. Examples of parameters include transmit power data reporting times temperature values types of data reported and so on.

The present embodiment addresses various concerns prevalent in many alumina reduction plants. Such concerns mandate minimizing costs for each sensing system for each cell since a given plant may have multiple cells maximizing safety since dangerously high temperatures may exist within and around cells and since problems associated with placing wires carrying signals can potentially lead to dangerous voltages nearing a thousand volts labor and costs associated with placing wires should be minimized and use of bulky batteries and wall socket power sources should be minimized since use of such power sources may present a substantial operating nuisance and expense when large numbers of cells and sensing systems are considered. The sensing system of addresses these issues by providing a cost effective and relatively safe wireless sensing system that is efficiently powered by waste energy or other energy inherent in the alumina reduction process.

Use of the sensing system may provide various additional benefits. For example one can deduce electrolyte ledge thickness not shown within the cell through heat flux measurements provided by the thermistor which may be considered a heat flux sensor. Accurate determination of the thickness of an electrolyte ledge formed within the cell may facilitate predicting failure of the cell .

Those skilled in the art may readily employ an off the shelf Mote Processor Radio MPR to facilitate implementing the node . An exemplary MRP is the standard mica2 mote which is supplied by Crossbow Technology Inc. model MPR400 . The MPR400 comes standard with a 10 bit ADC converter 3 mV precision Digital Input Output Universal Asynchronous Receiver and Transmitter UART 3 Light Emitting Diodes LEDs a Frequency Modulation FM tunable radio Flash Data Logger Memory FDLM and a basic whip antenna. Without obstructions the mica 2s purportedly can transmit data up to 500 feet away. Standard 2 AA batteries and a battery holder that accompany the mica2s may be removed for embodiments of the present invention.

Other types of motes or nodes other than mica2s may be employed to implement embodiments of the present invention without departing from the scope thereof. For example those skilled in the art may custom build the node to meet the needs of a given application.

Additional sensor network details that may be employed to facilitate implementing embodiments of the present invention are described in the following papers which are each hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full in this application for all purposes 

1. DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A THERMOELECTRICALLY POWERED WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORK FOR MONITORING THE HALL HEROULT PROCESS 53 pages Michael H. Schneider 2003 

2. EXPERIMENTS ON WIRELESS INSTRUMENTATION OF POTLINES 6 pages Schneider Evans Ziegler Wright Steingart 2005 and

Hence illustrates a basic configuration of a temperature sensor and associated transmitter that are powered by waste heat from the exhaust duct . The thermoelectric generator layer is positioned between the hot plate and heat sink . The hot plate is thermally coupled to the exterior of the exhaust duct and to the extension . The extension extends to within the interior of the exhaust duct . The exhaust duct is used to convey hot gases that are produced during an electrochemical aluminum production process. Thus the thermoelectric generator layer is coupled between a temperature gradient created by the heat conducted to the hot plate and a cooler temperature created as a result of the heat sink . As is known in the art the thermoelectric generator layer uses the temperature difference to generate electric energy.

The thermistor is attached to the end of the extension and is used to measure the temperature of gas inside of the duct . This temperature measurement can be used to improve the efficiency of the aluminum production process detect hazardous conditions or for other purposes. Both the electrical outputs of the thermoelectric generator layer and the signal output of the thermistor are provided to the node . The node includes wireless communication electronics to convey the measurement from the thermistor to the computer system for further analysis. The conveyance of sensor readings such as temperature measurements provided by the thermistor can be by any suitable means wired or wireless. Furthermore other types of sensors such as blackbody radiation sensors which are not disclosed herein can be used.

The thermoelectric generator assembly further includes an alternative thermoelectric generator layer that is sandwiched between the curved hot plate and a special heat sink . For illustrative purposes the special heat sink is shown including crosscut cooling fins . The thermoelectric generator layer employs a temperature difference between the hot plate and the heat sink to generate a power signal which provides power to the multi function node controller . The multi function node controller incorporates a DC DC power converter that receives the varying power signal and provides stable power to power the controller in response thereto.

For illustrative purposes the multi function controller is shown selectively providing power and control signals pwr. ctrl. to a thermistor plug a flow sensor a chemical sensor a vibration sensor transducer and a pressure sensor respectively. The sensors are connected to and or penetrate into the exhaust duct as needed to take sensor measurements such as chemical gas flow heat flux measurements vibration and pressure measurements. The multi function controller receives sensed data such as chemical gas flow temperature vibration and pressure measurements respectively from the sensors respectively. The thermistor may provide heat flux measurements in addition to temperature measurements. Alternatively heat flux measurements are provided to the multi function node controller by the TEG layer .

In operation the multi function controller selectively queries the sensors for sensed data as needed in response to queries control signals received by the node from the computer and forwarded to the sensors . The computer may also forward a control signal to the multi function controller directing the multi function controller to adjust the power provided to one or more of the sensors .

The multi function controller selectively provides power to the sensors when corresponding sensed data needs to be received by the node such as in response to queries from the computer or in response to predetermined criteria. For example the multi function controller may be configured to periodically power on one or more of the sensors to receive corresponding sensed data. For the purposes of the present discussion sensed data may be any information corresponding to measurements taken by a sensor such as one or more of the sensors .

The multi function controller and sensors may be configured so that the multi function controller continuously receives sensed data from the sensors not just periodically or in response to queries without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the multi function controller may implement one or more routines that cause sensed data from one or more of the sensors to only be stored by the node and or forwarded to the computer when certain criteria are met. For example if sensed data surpass predetermined thresholds or fall within predetermined thresholds as determined by the multi function controller then the data may be collected along with time stamps indicating when the measurements were received by the multi function controller .

The exact configuration of the multi function controller and the routines and functions associated therewith are application specific. The functionality of the multi function controller may be adjusted by those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings to meet the demands of a given application without undue experimentation. For example in one implementation the multi function controller may be configured to wirelessly transmit an alarm signal to the computer when the temperature within the exhaust duct surpasses a predetermined maximum temperature threshold. The multi function controller may also be configured to power off certain sensors when power levels output by the thermoelectric generator assembly are insufficient to power all of the sensors .

In an alternative operative scenario various sensors such as the vibration sensor and the pressure sensor can provide operational data about the process which is then linked to the multi function controller . Such sensors can be powered by conventional batteries. In other scenarios energy scavenging from heat vibration or pressure differential could be used to power the various kinds of sensor. Hence various sensors may be powered by scavenging waste heat or vibration from the alumina reduction process occurring within the Hall H roult cell see .

Hence the sensing system of implements a system for obtaining information pertaining to a process or thing such as an aluminum reduction process occurring in the Hall H roult cell of . The sensing system includes one or more energy converters implemented by the thermoelectric generator assembly and one or more of the sensors . For the purposes of the present discussion an energy converter may be any device that is adapted to convert energy from a process or thing such as a process or device being measured into energy suitable for use by a circuit or associated device such as the node and one or more of the sensors respectively.

The sensing system further includes a sensor such as one or more of the sensors coupled to the process or thing . The node is coupled to the sensor and the energy converter wherein the node is powered by output from the energy converter .

The multi function controller implements one or more routines for selectively adjusting power to the wireless transmitter of the node in response to a predetermined condition such as values output from the sensor being within a predetermined range or below or above a predetermined threshold. The predetermined condition may include electrical energy which is output from the energy converter being below a predetermined threshold. The remote computer may include one or more routines that are adapted to process information output by the sensor .

In certain operative scenarios the first node may transmit information to the third node thereby hopping the second node . Alternatively the second node may transmit directly to the computer thereby hopping the third node . Alternatively the first node may communicate directly with the computer thereby hopping the second node and the third node . Exact details and conditions pertaining to which nodes are hopped are application specific. Functionality required to implement node hopping is known in the art and may be readily employed in the nodes by those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings without undue experimentation.

Use of the wireless nodes which do not require separate bulky battery packs or wall outlet extension cords greatly facilitates instrumentation of the potline . Use of the sensing system may improve the ability of alumina reduction plants to safely and accurately monitor Hall H roult cell processes thereby providing valuable information that may be used to improve aluminum manufacturing.

If the environment determination step determines that the process or thing being sensed produces or yields waste energy in the form of heat then a thermoelectric generator such as the thermoelectric generator of is selected for use in an associated sensing system in a thermoelectric generator selecting step .

If the environment determination step determines that the process or thing being sensed produces or yields excess pressure then a pressure transducer such as the transducer of is selected for use in an associated sensing system in a transducer selecting step .

If the environment determination step determines that the process or thing being sensed produces or yields excess vibration then a vibration transducer such as the vibration transducer of is selected for use in an associated sensing system in a vibration converting step .

If the environment determination step determines that the process or thing being sensed produces or yields excess electrical energy then an electrical power converter such as the cell voltage measuring device and converter of are selected for use in an associated sensing system in a power converter selecting step .

After the appropriate power providing modules are selected in the selecting steps then an energy utilizing step is performed. The energy utilizing step involves using power and or electrical energy from the thermoelectric generator the pressure transducer and or the power converter selected in the selecting steps to power one or more sensors that are adapted to sense conditions or characteristics pertaining to the process or thing being sensed. The energy utilizing step also involves using power and or electrical energy to power a circuit such as a node for collecting and or coordinating the transmission of sensed data output from the sensors. The energy utilizing step also involves using power and or electrical energy to power a communications module such as the node transceiver of to selectively transmit the sensed data to another node and or to remote computer such as the computer of .

With reference to while embodiments of the present invention have been discussed with respect to specific arrangements of sensors nodes and computers embodiments of the present invention are not limited thereto. Sensors nodes heat sinks thermoelectric generators and other components can be used in different arrangements. For example various sensors maybe mounted onto a different portion of the cell other than the exhaust duct . Furthermore the invention can be adapted to work with processes other than aluminum reduction.

In general the electrical energy generation may be achieved via various types of energy converters other than thermoelectric generators pressure transducers and so on. Furthermore wireless transmission can be used to monitor any suitable process or condition. For example embodiments of the invention can be adapted to work with other electrochemical processes including modifications to an aluminum reduction process.

Note that specific numbers types arrangements and other characteristics of devices and systems can vary from those described herein. In general features of embodiments of the invention can work with any suitable types of network devices topology protocol physical links etc. Examples of communications standards that may be employed to facilitate wireless communications between nodes and computers include but are not limited to Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standards 802.11x where x may be b g etc. 802.16 and Bluetooth. Nodes can be used to relay information to other nodes and eventually to a central processing station such as the computer or other processing system as described in the attached Papers.

The sensors can be of various types sizes mountings or other characteristics. For example position temperature moisture or humidity gas pressure force light and other sensors can all be used. A single node can have multiple sensors and different nodes can use different numbers and types of sensors than other nodes. Depending on the type of application different types of sensing may be more desirable than others and sensor characteristics such as sensitivity ruggedness sample rate power consumption transmit receive range etc. may be more critical than others.

Nodes can have pre programmed behavior so that the need for transmitting commands to a node is reduced. Another option is to allow each node to be reprogrammable so that node behavior such as sensor sampling rate transmit range communications relay ability etc. can be adjusted from a control center. Node firmware and software can be downloaded to each node from a control center server or other device.

One embodiment of the invention can use a base station to send and receive signals among a network of nodes. The base station can be configured to perform different functions such as aggregating and correlating data filtering data monitoring nodes etc. The base station which may be implemented via the computer of can act as a central radio frequency receiver transmitter and relay information to other processing system servers which in turn can provide data from the nodes to other client computer systems. Client systems can operate automatically or in interaction with human operators to analyze data monitor and report on conditions make predictions and issue commands to the nodes. Note that in practice several or many base stations can be used each with an associated plurality of nodes. Base station coverage can overlap to provide robustness via redundancy. Such overlapping coverage can also improve overall bandwidth of communications from and to nodes.

Sensors on nodes can be prioritized so that if there is a lack of resources e.g. limited bandwidth the sensor readings with higher priority can be communicated first. Data of sensor types with lower priority can be buffered and transmitted when there is free bandwidth at a later time or discarded and not sent at all. If a node starts to become low on power sensors with higher priority can remain active while lower priority sensors are shut down.

Sensing can be triggered or controlled or modified in reaction to events or other criteria. For example where a sensor reading is within an expected normal range then a node can be programmed to report infrequently. If readings exceed a threshold value then the node can send readings or an alert message at a high priority. The node can begin sampling more frequently and give the appropriate sensor a higher priority. When the condition becomes safe i.e. does not exceed the threshold the node and sensing operation can go back to the previous state.

One sensor s reading can be used to modify the operation and reporting of other sensors. For example if temperature increases then gas flow monitoring can be increased in frequency reporting priority etc.

Although the invention has been discussed with respect to specific embodiments thereof these embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. Additional types of sensors include imaging sensors e.g. cameras infrared sensing etc. Any software applications or functionality can be provided at the node base station servers and or clients. It is anticipated that third party commercial software can be used to perform functions such as database storage and retrieval data transfer data analysis operating system functions etc.

Although embodiments of the invention have been presented primarily with respect to electrochemical production other uses are possible. Different configurations of sensors power generators receivers transmitters and control systems are possible. For example one type of useful configuration is a relay system that can use an electric generator and a receiver transmitter node to receive a signal from an originating node and to relay it to another receiver that may be too distant too communicate directly with the originating node.

While the present embodiments are discussed with reference to obtaining measurements pertaining to conditions or characteristics of an aluminum reduction cell or process embodiments of the present invention are not limited thereto. For example many types of environments are susceptible to events that may affect sensor output and that would benefit from a sensor network and accompanying sensed data collection method implemented according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Although a process or module of the present invention may be presented as a single entity such as software executing on a single machine such software and or modules can readily be executed on multiple machines. Furthermore multiple different modules and or programs of embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on one or more machines without departing from the scope thereof.

Any suitable programming language can be used to implement the routines or other instructions employed by various network entities. Exemplary programming languages include nesC C Java assembly language etc. Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. The routines can execute on a single processing device or multiple processors. Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different embodiments. In some embodiments multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed simultaneously.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatus systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments of the present invention.

A machine readable medium or computer readable medium for purposes of embodiments of the present invention may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. The computer readable medium can be by way of example only but not by limitation an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device propagation medium or computer memory.

A processor or software process includes any human hardware and or software system mechanism or component that processes data signals or other information. A processor can include a system with a general purpose central processing unit multiple processing units dedicated circuitry for achieving functionality or other systems. Processing need not be limited to a geographic location or have temporal limitations. For example a processor can perform its functions in real time offline in a batch mode etc. Portions of processing can be performed at different times and at different locations by different or the same processing systems. A computer may be any processor in communication with a memory.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or a specific embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and not necessarily in all embodiments. Thus respective appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment or in a specific embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of any specific embodiment of the present invention may be combined in any suitable manner with one or more other embodiments. It is to be understood that other variations and modifications of the embodiments of the present invention described and illustrated herein are possible in light of the teachings herein and are to be considered as part of the spirit and scope of the present invention.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application.

Additionally any signal arrows in the drawings figures should be considered only as exemplary and not limiting unless otherwise specifically noted. Furthermore the term or as used herein is generally intended to mean and or unless otherwise indicated. Combinations of components or steps will also be considered as being noted where terminology is foreseen as rendering the ability to separate or combine is unclear.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Furthermore as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The foregoing description of illustrated embodiments of the present invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed herein. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes only various equivalent modifications are possible within the spirit and scope of the present invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize and appreciate. As indicated these modifications may be made to the present invention in light of the foregoing description of illustrated embodiments of the present invention and are to be included within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Thus while the present invention has been described herein with reference to particular embodiments thereof a latitude of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosures and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of embodiments of the invention will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit of the present invention. It is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular terms used in following claims and or to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include any and all embodiments and equivalents falling within the scope of the appended claims.

