---

title: Trading system and method for institutional athletic and education programs
abstract: A device and method for trading commodity options and futures related to an educational institution's non-rival athletic program to manage risks associated with producing collegiate athletic programs. In one version, the underlying asset of the options and futures contracts is an athletic prospect's obligation to participate in a non-rival athletic program at a particular institution in exchange for the opportunity for the athletic prospect to participate in academic and athletic programs within the institution. In a particular form, the underlying asset is a signed National Letter of Intent, a contract that obligates a prospect attending a particular institution to participate in that institution's non-rival athletic program. Revenues generated by options and futures contracts traded according to the device and method of the present invention can be used to further the institution's educational and athletic missions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08160951&OS=08160951&RS=08160951
owner: 
number: 08160951
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080225
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 754 797 filed May 29 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 363 272 now allowed which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 810 891 filed Jun. 5 2006. This application is related to a U.S. application Ser. No. 11 754 774 also entitled TRADING SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INSTITUTIONAL ATHLETIC AND EDUCATION PROGRAMS filed on May 29 2007 now allowed .

The present invention relates generally to trading novel commodity options and futures contracts and more particularly to a device and method for trading such contracts as they relate to athletic and education programs.

Education particularly higher education is the gateway to the American Dream. The long term economic value of earning a college degree is well documented. College educated workers on average can bring home more than 1 million more over a lifetime than people who end their formal education after high school.

Though benefits of a post secondary degree are undeniable consumers of higher education students and families have to find a way to cover the price of education before the benefits can be realized. During the past two decades the price of education in the United States has increased dramatically and at a rate approximately twice the rate of inflation. Between 1980 and 2001 spending at public colleges and universities increased by almost seventy five percent after accounting for inflation to over one hundred and thirty five billion dollars.

In addition student debt obligations have risen dramatically. The average debt fourth year students at public four year colleges have accumulated has risen thirty nine percent to over fifteen thousand dollars since 1993. The average debt fourth year students at private four year colleges have accumulated has risen forty nine percent to over twenty three thousand dollars since 1993.

In 2005 there were approximately four thousand degree granting colleges and universities in the United States. In October of 2005 according to the U.S. Department of Labor there were eleven million sixteen to twenty four year olds enrolled in colleges in the United States. This disparity between the supply of and demand for education means that while education is one of the best investments an individual can make the price risk of education is difficult to hedge because there are many more buyers of education i.e. students and families than there are sellers i.e. colleges and universities . The difficulty related to hedging the price risk of education demonstrates that there is a clear and pressing need for the current invention.

Like the price of education the price of producing educational athletics particularly collegiate athletics in the United States has increased dramatically in the past two decades. At the collegiate level the amount of revenue that most institutions must allocate from academic resources to balance athletic budgets is increasing. Recent research indicates that the rate of increase in athletic expenditures is tripling that of spending in higher education overall. In other words the price of athletics is increasing at the equivalent of six times the rate of inflation. It has recently been reported that athletic programs at public institutions receive more than one billion dollars in student fees and general school funds and services. Without outside funding fewer than ten percent of athletic departments would have been able to support themselves with ticket sales television contracts and other revenue generating means. Most of these institutions would have lost more than five million dollars in a single year. Thus it is clear that the price of athletics is sympathetic with the price of education.

Athletics and education and the business of athletics and education particularly the business of collegiate athletics has experienced revenue growth in recent years. Assets related to athletic programs and education programs often generate millions of dollars in revenue. However the athletic prospects who are the students that contribute to the generation of this revenue do not share in it. Rather as documented in testimony before Congress in 2003 they often live in poverty. The risk of poverty to prospects who contribute to the generation of athletic revenue demonstrates that there is a clear and pressing need for the current invention.

Furthermore institutions do not have adequate tools for managing economic risk related to athletic program assets and education program assets. For example the president of the National Collegiate Athletic Association NCAA has publicly stated that Division I collegiate athletics do es not have a sustainable business model despite the fact that a participating institutions generate millions of dollars via operation of their athletic programs that is not subject to taxation b these institutions do not pay any wages to the athletes who contribute their physical efforts to generating the revenue and c the majority of these institutions provide additional cash subsidies to athletic programs by charging fees to all students attending the institution. In addition the chairman of the NCAA s Task Force on Fiscal Responsibility has stated that the rate of growth of expenditures and revenues in intercollegiate athletics simply is not sustainable. The former chairman of the NCAA s Division I Board of Directors has testified before the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics Knight Commission about the inequity of the marketplace for athletic prospects participating in collegiate athletics and has stated that higher education has not been able to address how to use education as a commodity. Finally the former president of the Knight Commission has said that he does not believe that there will be a time when the NCAA or its members do something so dramatic and wonderful that it really changes the situation. These statements and findings demonstrate a clear and pressing need for the present invention.

In all collegiate athletic environments one of the greatest risks to a program is the fierce competition among educational institutions to recruit and retain the most promising athletic prospects in order for an institution to maximize the chances of continuously maintaining an athletic program that is academically athletically and economically successful. At the collegiate level during the off season i.e. that time of the year when an athletic program s teams are not engaged in on field play with competing teams an institution seeks to persuade desirable prospects to commit to attending that particular institution and participating in the institution s athletic program. Most or all institutions use a standardized contract known as a National Letter of Intent NLI to secure a prospect to the exclusion of other competing institutions. According to NCAA Bylaw 13.02.08 the NLI is utilized by subscribing member institutions to establish the commitment of a prospect to attend a particular institution. 

The NCAA considers the NLI to be a binding agreement between a prospect and an institution in which the institution agrees to provide the prospect a grant in aid for one year in exchange for the prospect s agreement to attend the institution and participate in the designated athletic program for that year. The time periods for a prospect to sign an NLI vary by sport. For example the NLI signing period for college football prospects is open from approximately December 21 through January 15 for junior college prospects and approximately February 1 through April 1 for high school prospects . In the case of football the prospect who signs an NLI typically delivers himself to the institution by the following July or August. The NLI is binding for a four year term.

The NLI is a type of unregulated contract known as a forward contract that is similar but not identical to a regulated commodity futures contract also known as a future . A traditional forward contract can be settled only by physical delivery of an underlying commodity and cannot be cash settled. In contrast to a forward contract most transactions involving futures do not require the seller of the future to actually deliver the underlying commodity to the buyer. Instead as the last trading date known as the settlement date approaches the buyer and seller execute offsetting contracts thereby exiting the market and taking a corresponding profit or loss. In other words a futures contract can be cash settled. These attributes allow a futures contract to mimic the equivalent of real ownership of a commodity without either trader actually obtaining anything but the economic results of the transaction. In general a future is a standardized contract to buy or sell an underlying commodity or instrument such as grain oil or currency at a future date and at a set price specified on the last trading date. Unlike traditional forward contracts and unregulated derivative contracts that can be traded on an unregulated over the counter OTC market a commodity future can be traded only on a regulated futures exchange known as a designated contract market DCM .

In a commodity market that underlies a DCM producers of commodities such as a grain farmer and users of commodities such as a cereal manufacturer enter into contracts to buy or sell a fixed amount of a particular commodity on a cash or spot market. The unpredictable nature of underlying commodities markets led to the development of futures markets as a method for producers and users of commodities to spread the economic risk of price fluctuation and other uncertainties. By trading futures on a DCM producers and users hedge and manage their economic risk by providing an investment opportunity to investors whose money injects liquidity into the market. By engaging in such a hedging transaction a producer or user can shift or offset economic risk to the investor seeking economic reward. To offset risk in this manner a hedging producer or user typically takes on a financial obligation that is opposite to his or her obligation in the underlying commercial transaction.

Hedging is not gambling. In a publication entitled the Commodity Futures Exchange Commission CFTC which is the federal agency with regulatory authority over futures and related options trading in the United States stated that m any people think that futures are just about speculating or gambling. While it is true that futures markets can be used for speculating that is not the primary reason for their existence. Futures markets are actually designed as vehicles for hedging and risk management that is to help people avoid gambling when they don t want to. 

In contrast to regulated futures markets participants in gambling activities do not have any underlying commercial relationship. Unlike regulated futures markets sports gambling activities cannot have any producers with bona fide hedging interests because laws rules regulations league bylaws and player contracts prohibit teams and their players from buying or selling a commercial interest in their own performance or in the performance of their rivals. Any potential hedging producer i.e. a team or player is strictly prohibited from taking a financial obligation that is the opposite of the obligation to perform to the best of his or her ability in the underlying sporting event. Indeed in the infamous 1919 World Series eight members of the Chicago White Sox allegedly sold a commercial interest in their future performance against the Cincinnati Reds and then shorted their performance during several games of the World Series competition. Thereafter the Commissioner of Major League Baseball banned the eight players from organized baseball for life. The whole sports gambling industry is based on the outcome of a sporting event or events as determined solely by the performance of the teams or individuals engaged in the sporting event or events. Thus instruments that pay dividends that are contractually tied to the underlying performance of a team or individual on a field or court the output of a team or individual are not futures even if such instruments are labeled or referred to as derivative contracts.

An option contract also referred to as an option is another type of contract that is traded on a regulated exchange. An option such as that used in a futures market is a right but not an obligation to buy or sell a future or a commodity at a present fixed price called the exercise price or strike price . The buyer of an option pays a fixed price called a premium to the option writer for this right. A call option is the right to buy a future or a commodity at the strike price and has positive economic value also known as in the money when the future market price of the future or commodity is greater than the strike price. A put option is the right to sell a future or a commodity at the strike price and has positive economic value when the future market price of the future or commodity is less than the strike price.

The price of a regulated commodity contract such as a future or option is established when the contract is made in a trade on a regulated DCM. Numerous such exchanges exist throughout the world. Examples of such regulated exchanges in the United States include The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and The New York Mercantile Exchange. In an exchange s traditional form buyers and sellers engage in trading through intermediaries such as brokers and merchants who use an open outcry system in an exchange pit also known as a trading floor . Under this traditional system the exchange acts as both a clearinghouse and regulator of the market.

The ascendancy of electronic or computer based trading has supplemented and in some cases supplanted the open outcry system increased individual direct access to futures markets and made it easier for traders to enter and exit futures markets directly. Trading on a DCM can be either intermediated or direct i.e. non intermediated . A broker or merchant trades on behalf of and for the benefit of the buyer or seller when trading is intermediated. A buyer or seller trades directly on his or her own behalf and for his or her own benefit when trading is direct. The technological advances mentioned above have increased the feasibility of direct trading of commodity contracts including direct trading of futures and options.

Futures and options trading is the natural outgrowth of maintaining a continuous supply of seasonal products like agricultural crops. Institutional athletic programs also need a continuous supply of a seasonal product such as NLI commitments. In this regard the present inventors have recognized that collegiate athletic recruiting markets as well as collegiate education recruiting markets function in a manner similar to that of traditional commodity markets.

A prospect and an institution that enter into an NLI are natural counterparties to an illiquid transaction. On one hand a prospect takes a short position and sells his short term athletic participation for access to the future earning power of a degree. The institution takes the long position and buys the potential that the athlete will contribute to the long term athletic and economic well being of the institution. On the other hand the prospect can be characterized as the party who takes the long position and buys the potential future return on the institution s academic and athletic programs paying off in the form of a degree and long term economic prosperity. Under such a view the institution can be characterized as taking the short position and selling one year of grant in aid in exchange for one year of athletic participation and resulting revenue.

The characterization of one party s position as short and the other party s as long is not determinative. Rather as counterparties a prospect and an institution have a shared bona fide interest in hedging the risk that the price of the NLI commitment will change for the prospect or the institution after the NLI commitment has been executed. For example a prospect bears the risk that he or she will live in poverty while participating in athletics and the risk that the demands of athletic participation will take precedence over academic development. The institution takes the risk that its spending on its group of prospects will in the aggregate exceed the economic return to the institution and the risk that the prospect will not attain an academic degree.

Rival supporters of athletic programs also are natural counterparties. For example the counterparty to an Ohio State football supporter is a Michigan football supporter or a Penn State football supporter. However unlike the prospect institution relationship rival supporters of college athletic programs have no overlapping long term interest. For example when Ohio State competes against Michigan or Penn State on the field during a game the competition between rival supporters of athletic programs is purely a binary zero sum or winner take all proposition.

The competition between rival supporters of competing institutions is a zero sum competition because a win on a football field or other athletic field or court is a purely rival good or interest rival interest . A purely rival interest has the property that its use by one precludes its use by another. For example in a football game between Ohio State and Michigan to determine which of the two teams will compete in a Rose Bowl football game a successful Ohio State performance that results in a win for the Ohio State football team precludes the use of the win by the Michigan football team. As a result the Ohio State football team goes to the Rose Bowl and the Michigan team does not. Thus the win resulting from the Ohio State and Michigan competition is a purely rival interest.

In contrast an institution s athletic program that consists of an aggregate of athletic teams e.g. football basketball volleyball field hockey etc. is a non rival partially excludable interest non rival interest because an athletic program as an organizational unit does not actually compete directly on any field or court with any other institution s athletic program. No meta competition between athletic programs exists. An interest in an institution s athletic program can be used and enjoyed by any person in the public without limiting the use or enjoyment of any other person s interest in the same athletic program. Thus an institution s athletic program is non rival.

A non rival interest has the property that its use by one firm or person in no way limits its use by another firm or person. A purely non rival interest cannot be traded in a competitive market. However a non rival partially excludable interest can be traded in a competitive market. Generally an example of a non rival partially excludable interest is a design of a membership organization. For instance beginning in 1971 the New York Stock Exchange NYSE was designed as a private non profit association. In 2006 the NYSE merged with Archipelago Holdings a provider of electronic trading technology and became a public company. As with other public companies investors now can trade ownership interests shares in the NYSE itself.

Another example of a non rival interest is a design of an institution s athletic program. Thus while the Michigan football team s loss to Ohio State precludes the Michigan football team from participating in the Rose Bowl the outcome in no way limits the interest of any person in either Michigan s athletic program or Ohio State s athletic program. Notwithstanding the outcome of the game all persons in the public remain free to take a tangible commercial interest in either program or both programs by entering into a contract to sponsor the athletic program or by purchasing tickets to athletic events or by making financial donations to the athletic program s or their parent institution s . In addition notwithstanding the outcome of the game all persons in the public remain free to take an intangible interest in either program or both programs by simply rooting for teams sponsored by either athletic program in future athletic events. The design of the NCAA is but another example of a design of a non rival interest as is the design of the exchange of the present invention.

No non rival educational athletic program commodity options or futures currently exist. In addition no exchange currently exists for an institution a prospect or the public to hedge their long term risks related to a prospect entering into an NLI or related contractual commitment with a particular institution or to determine the price of an institution s non rival athletic program. Likewise no exchange currently exists for the non NLI students at an institution to manage the risk of the rising cost of education during their years at the institution. Accordingly it is desirable that a device and method of operating the device be established that facilitates trading non rival partially excludable educational athletic program commodity options and futures. It is additionally desirable that such a device and method be established to provide institutions with a tool to manage the risks related to the operation of athletic programs and education programs. It is further desirable that such a device and method be established to provide athletic prospects with a tool to manage the risks related to their participation in athletics including the risk of living in poverty while participating in athletics. It is further desirable that such a device and method be established to provide the public with a hedge against the increasing price of education. It is further desirable that such a device and method be established to provide institutions with a means for growing revenue. It is further desirable that such a device and method be established to inject liquidity into athletics and education. It is further desirable that such a device and method be established to subsidize the growth of the cumulative effect of higher education human capital . It is further desirable that such a device and method be established to promote economic growth.

The proposed exchange would meet these desires by providing a tool to manage the risks associated with producing collegiate athletic programs and educational programs. In the present context the term exchange or the like refers either collectively or individually to the device and method proposed herein and can be used interchangeably.

In one form the present invention embodies a futures and options trading exchange platform on which in exchange for payment of certain premiums qualified institutions and qualified prospects the latter also referred to as qualified students can buy options on an affiliated institution s non rival athletic program for example SYM . Upon exercise of those options payment of a certain exercise price or strike price and payment of a transaction fee those institutions and prospects can sell one or more futures contracts related to that non rival athletic program. In addition all other investors participating in trading on the exchange would pay a transaction fee to buy and sell futures on any non rival athletic program for example SYM SYM SYM SYM SYM SYM SYMor the like . Revenues generated from the transaction fee less the cost to establish and operate the exchange can be distributed to the general scholarship funds of every institution trading on the exchange. Thus by subsidizing tuition the exchange would facilitate a public hedge against the increasing price of higher education. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that even though the majority of the discussion herein is within the context of collegiate athletics it will be understood that the proposed exchange can be extended to manage the risk and cost associated with operating non rival athletic programs sponsored by other educational institutions such as high schools prep schools community colleges and the like.

Under the proposed exchange a prospect that signs an NLI or similar contract with a particular institution can for a premium for example 100 qualify to buy the right but not the obligation a call option to buy a predetermined number of futures contracts for example one thousand of that institution s non rival athletic program for a fixed price per future for example 1 per future . Likewise for a premium per prospect again for example 100 that institution can qualify to buy the right but not the obligation a call option to purchase futures contracts for a fixed price again for example 1 per future for use in its general scholarship fund or at its discretion in a manner consistent with applicable legislation and or regulation. Identical rights would accrue to all institutions and their prospects that participate in trading on the present exchange.

Once an institution or prospect buys an option to purchase futures the institution or prospect can exercise the option at the strike price in the example above 1 and sell the futures to an investor for example a member of the general public who participates in the exchange of the present invention at the market price. If the option is in the money i.e. the market price exceeds the strike price at the time the institution or prospect exercises the option and sells the future the institution or prospect will profit from the transaction.

Similar to the pre 2006 NYSE the NCAA is a private non profit association. The NCAA regulates the eligibility of prospects for participation in collegiate athletics. The NCAA s regulations pertaining to eligibility are not binding on the trading exchange of the present invention. Nevertheless the options and futures to be traded on the present invention s trading exchange are expressly authorized by NCAA regulations and are consistent with the spirit of the regulations. The NCAA only prohibits a prospect from receiving pay or gifts or extra benefits. The NCAA does not prohibit a prospect from buying regulated financial products or making any sort of investment that is subject to risk such as an investment opportunity involving the options and futures created by the present invention. On the present invention s trading exchange prospects will not receive pay or gifts. Indeed the present invention s trading exchange incorporates the exact opposite relationship as prospects must pay a premium for such options an exercise or strike price for futures contracts and the same transaction fees that all investors must pay.

NCAA Bylaw 16.02.03 expressly provides that r eceipt of a benefit by student athletes a k a prospects or their relatives or friends is not a violation of NCAA legislation if it is demonstrated that the same benefit is generally available to the institution s students or their relatives or friends or to a particular segment of the student body e.g. foreign students minority students determined on a basis unrelated to athletics ability. 

On the trading exchange of the present invention the benefit of these options and futures if any will be available to both prospects and other students through the university as intermediary on a basis other than athletic ability. The benefit if any to prospects and other students is uniform in that it is a hedge against the respective economic risks borne by athletic prospects and by other non athlete students. Prospects bear the short term risk that they will live in poverty while participating in collegiate athletics but do not bear the risk that the price of their education will increase as the institution absorbs that cost. In contrast other non athlete students are not prohibited from accepting pay and benefits by NCAA rules or time commitments to collegiate athletics. However such students bear the short term risk that the price of education will increase. In other words the short term risk borne by athletic prospects is the inverse of the short term risk borne by non athlete students. Moreover both prospects and other non athlete students share the long term risk that their respective short term risks will interfere with their shared long term interest in obtaining an academic degree. While the long term risks borne by prospects and other students are directly related and their short term risks are inversely related the trading exchange of the present invention provides the same benefit to both prospects and other non athlete students in the form of a hedge against their economic risks.

In addition by generally subsidizing tuition on a basis unrelated to athletic ability the trading exchange of the present invention provides a subsidy of the production of human capital on a basis unrelated to athletic ability. Human capital is a distinct measure of the cumulative effect of activities such as formal education. In other words human capital is a distinct measure of the accumulation of knowledge derived from higher education. According to economist Paul Romer s model in a paper entitled knowledge enters into production in two distinct ways. A new design enables the production of a new good that can be used to produce output. A new design also increases the total stock of knowledge and thereby increases the productivity of human capital in the research sector. The owner of a design has property rights over its use in the production of a new producer durable but not over its use in research. If an inventor has a patent design for widgets no one can make or sell widgets without the agreement of the inventor. On the other hand other inventors are free to spend time studying the patent application for the widget and learn knowledge that helps in the design of a wodget. The inventor of the widget has no ability to stop the inventor of a wodget from learning from the design of a widget. This means that the benefits from the first productive role for a design are completely excludable whereas the benefits from the second are completely non excludable. In an overall sense this means that the nonrival design inputs are partially excludable. 

Romer s model suggests that what is important for economic growth is integration not into an economy with a large number of people but rather into one with a large amount of human capital. Subsidizing the general accumulation of knowledge human capital by generally subsidizing the tuition of non athlete students in order to produce economic growth is one of the economic purposes of the present invention.

The trading exchange of the present invention provides a subsidy of tuition expenses of non athlete students and the accumulation of knowledge human capital that is independent of the performance or outcome of any athletic event or events to every institution whose non rival athletic program is traded on the exchange by providing a percentage of a transaction fee charged for each trade made on the exchange to each institution. Thus the trading exchange of the present invention is calculated to produce economic growth as measured by the accumulation of knowledge human capital that is independent of the outcome of any athletic event or events which clearly is a basis unrelated to athletic ability.

The institution alone will select those prospects with whom it will enter into NLI commitments and who thereby might benefit from buying options and selling futures. The institution alone acting as an intermediary will select those other students who might benefit from that institution s intermediated buying of options and selling of futures. The benefits if any that prospects and other students will receive from trading on the present invention s exchange will be determined by trading skill and market forces which clearly is a basis unrelated to athletic ability. In addition increased contributions to an institution s general scholarship fund made possible from trading and operation of the exchange of the present invention will benefit all students attending that institution which is also a basis unrelated to athletic ability.

On the present invention s trading exchange the options are similar in nature to tuition as well as athletic scholarships and academic scholarships that institutions have provided to athletic prospects and scholars since the 1950s. Like tuition or a scholarship the option is an investment in prospects other students and the institution that carries both potential risk and potential reward to the same. The option is leverage that prospects and the institution mutually and symbiotically employ in pursuit of a better future for all students as opposed to an immediate benefit for one group at the expense of another group.

There is precedent in higher education for using market designs methods and tools for educational purposes. For example the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business has operated the Iowa Electronic Markets as part of its research and teaching mission. The Iowa Electronic Markets are a group of real money futures markets that allow traders to buy and sell contracts based on political election results.

In addition in January of 1956 Nobel Prize winning economist Vernon L. Smith created a student market in his classroom in which student traders engaged in trading with one another within the classroom. Smith found that the classroom market maximized the group s total gain from trading. In other words the classmates could not have done any better had someone with perfect knowledge told them what to do. According to James Surowiecki s book in the four decades since Smith performed that first experiment and published the results they have been replicated hundreds if not thousands of times in ever more complex variations. But the essential conclusion of those early tests that under the right conditions imperfect humans can produce near perfect results has not been challenged. 

Section 2 a 1 of the Commodities Exchange Act the Act defines a commodity to include all goods and articles . . . and all services rights and interests in which contracts for future delivery are presently or in the future dealt in . . . According to a former chairman of the CFTC and the author of the treatise under this section of the Act Congress expanded the definition of commodity to encompass virtually anything that is or becomes the subject of futures trading intangible as well as tangible . . . . A fair reading of the amended and expanded definition suggests that as for all goods and articles . . . and all services rights and interests their status as statutory commodities does not emerge until they become the subject of futures trading. Although this method of converting something into a commodity may seem curious it illustrates an important principle of commodities regulation Its interest is in a form of economic activity rather than in the attributes or character of the underlying subject. The economic activity in question is futures and commodity options trading the nature of the commodity does not affect the regulatory result. 

The subject assets underlying the options and futures traded on the exchange can be thought of as a basket i.e. aggregate of NLI commitments that each institution s non rival athletic program accumulates through the recruiting process. Unlike the trading of some traditional commodity futures such as wheat or oil the cash value of a basket of NLI commitments is unknown and currently is not measured by any external economic index or reference point. Nevertheless a commodity does not require a cash market in order for the commodity to be traded as a future. As observed in M ost futures and commodity option contract prices unlike securities are normally related to prices actively and continually made in a separate commercial market and this interrelationship imposes a form of price discipline on futures contracts. The latter in other words will seldom deviate substantially from prices being actually paid for the same commodity in the commercial world. The reasonableness of most futures prices therefore can be tested against an external reference point. No such opportunity is presented to the securities investor who can look only to the securities market itself for price information. Techniques have been devised of course such as the test of price earnings ratio to analyze the attractiveness of a particular security s current price but these formulas are fraught with subjective evaluation and are frequently ignored . . . . Financial futures and options reflect the underlying value of government obligations foreign currencies and stock indexes all of which can be said to lack the firmer external reference points applicable to other commodities. Weather options and futures are contracts traded on regulated DCMs where the underlying commodity weather is not benchmarked in monetary units or subject to a cash market.

Institutions face cyclical periods of interest in their non rival athletic programs. For example college football operates pursuant to a business cycle composed of four quarters or seasons. A first season is made up of pre season preparation and non conference competition a second season is made up of conference competition and bowl games a third season is made up of recruiting competition and spring practice while a fourth season is the quiet period between seasons three and one. By way of example NCAA Division I A institutions face a cyclical period of relatively low interest in their football programs during the fourth quarter discussed above which runs from the end of the recruiting season and spring practice until the majority of new prospects begin arriving on campus in the later summer and early fall. As with weather futures the present invention will enable institutions and prospects to make available a large base of written options that will provide liquidity for a seasonal futures market in NLI commitments.

The basket of NLI commitments known as recruiting classes that make up a non rival athletic program are the assets underlying the present invention s trading exchange and as mentioned above with weather futures are not measured in monetary units. Nevertheless an investor who uses the exchange of the present invention to invest in a particular institution s non rival athletic program will have at least four external reference points or benchmarks by which he or she can judge an investment 1 an institution s and a prospect s option exercise price per future for example 1 2 a market price or prices at which futures related to competing institutions are trading 3 an NCAA set settlement bid floor price of 0 and 4 an exchange set maximum ask ceiling price and settlement ask price for example 100 . In situations involving a companion market an additional benchmark that of a composite or aggregate index of some or all of the institutions may be used.

In one embodiment of the present invention the value of a non rival athletic program s future is the absolute future value between 0 and 100 of the non rival athletic program to a person with a tangible interest i.e. commercial or contractual interest or intangible interest in the program. The future value of the non rival athletic program is nothing to a person who values the program at 0 and everything to a person who values the program at 100 and something in between for values 0 to 100.

In a typical futures market an investor that buys or sells a commodity future such as oil knows the absolute spot price of the oil on the day he or she purchases the future while the future settlement price is liquid and fluctuates relative to the spot price. The present invention embodies the inverse scenario. An investor that buys a future in a non rival athletic program would know that consistent with NCAA rules the absolute future settlement price of the future on the primary market would be 0 but the spot price of the non rival athletic program would be liquid and fluctuate relative to the price of the futures of the non rival athletic programs of all other competing institutions traded on the exchange. Likewise an investor that sells short a future in a non rival athletic program by depositing 100 with the exchange and borrowing a future would know that consistent with exchange rules the absolute future settlement price would be 100 but the spot price of the non rival athletic program would be liquid and fluctuate relative to the price of the futures of the non rival athletic programs of all other competing institutions traded on the exchange. In other words an investor will not be speculating where a future will settle at the end of trading. Rather an investor will be speculating as to what traders will be willing to invest in NLI commitments at every instant in time prior to settlement. As Nobel prize winning economist Kenneth Arrow stated in w hat the markets for risk bearing achieve is an efficient distribution of the risks as viewed before the event. In this respect it is like the workings of the price system in general. If a commodity e.g. oil becomes less available the economy is going to be worse off. What the price system does is to make the loss to society as small as possible. The present inventors expect that what one aspect of the trading exchange of the present invention will achieve is an efficient distribution of the risks of producing non rival athletic programs. In this respect the trading exchange of the present invention works like a price system for the purpose of insuring and sustaining the unique collegiate model of athletics. Insuring and sustaining the unique collegiate model of athletics is one of the economic purposes of the present invention.

The discussion above describes the operation of a risk neutral exchange with a single primary market. In a variation investors also will be able to speculate and hedge the risk of buying and selling futures in the primary market by trading in a companion market that aggregates and indexes the price of all futures traded on the exchange. At all times the public trading of all futures will yield an aggregate mean price per future. In the companion market an investor can buy an index future contract index future if he or she expects the aggregate mean price to increase. Correspondingly an investor can sell index futures if he or she expects the aggregate mean price to decrease. Thus investors in index futures will speculate on where the aggregate mean price per future will finally settle and can use index futures to hedge underlying future trading in the same way that the trader of traditional commodities can hedge his or her position by trading commodity index futures such as Goldman Sachs Commodity Index Futures GSCI Futures .

In one embodiment of the present invention the final settlement price of the index futures will be the special quotation of the aggregate mean price per future on a pre determined final day of the trading period. Investors holding open positions in index futures at the time of the expiration of trading will realize a gain or suffer a loss based on the final settlement price and will receive a payout based on a pari mutuel risk sharing rule or some other risk sharing rule.

In another embodiment of the present invention s companion market the market price of any index future traded on the system and therefore the risk assumed by every investor in index futures would be strictly bounded between two fixed endpoints. At expiration the payoff will be based on the ending aggregate mean price per future relative to the index future range. If the aggregate mean price per future ends at or below the floor the payoff is 0 for the buyer and the stated contract size for the seller. If the aggregate mean price per future ends at or above the cap the payoff is the stated contract size for the buyer and 0 for the seller.

If the aggregate mean price per future ends between the floor and the cap the stated contract size is split between the buyer and seller where the buyer receives A for every B tick the aggregate mean price per future finished above the floor and the seller receives X for every Y tick the aggregate mean price per future finished below the cap such that payoff for the buyer increases when the aggregate mean price per future ends closer to the cap and payoff for the seller increases when the aggregate mean price per future ends closer to the floor. In addition investors could close their positions prior to expiration by selling their index futures at any time before the last trading date. In such cases the profit or loss is the difference between the price received and the price paid. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other variations of futures and options contracts based on the index can be traded on the companion market.

The exchange will not permit qualified prospects or qualified institutions to take own or otherwise control a short position on any contract traded on the exchange. Qualified institutions and qualified prospects will be strictly limited to taking owning or controlling long positions. By limiting the qualified institutions and the qualified prospects to taking owning or controlling long positions in their particular non rival athletic program the exchange of the present invention will eliminate the incentive of any qualified institution or qualified prospect to use less than best effort when participating in such non rival athletic program.

The exchange will not permit margin accounts. Thus for an investor to take a long position i.e. buy futures or a short position i.e. sell futures on a given number of futures contracts he or she will have to post in an account a deposit adequate to cover the difference between the bid ask price and the settlement price. For buyers of futures the deposit will be equal to the bid price. For non institution and non prospect sellers of futures i.e. supporters and investors the deposit will be 100 per future. For an institution or a prospect no deposit will be necessary as long as a bidder with an unfilled order greater than the exercise or strike price for example 1 per future exists to take the institution s or prospect s sale price offer. If no such bidder exists and an institution or a prospect still desires to exercise options the institution or prospect will have to make the appropriate deposit.

Consistent with well established principles of commodity markets the exchange will employ reasonable open interest limits and position limits to prevent any person or entity from cornering squeezing or otherwise manipulating a non rival athletic program. For example limits that restrict an investor to a total of one thousand open interests and or positions at any one time essentially would limit an investor to bidding for one prospect at a time. Such pro competitive limits will increase liquidity within the market.

In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention a method of electronically trading futures contracts associated with non rival athletic programs of one or more educational institutions is disclosed. The method includes granting an option to one or both of a qualified student and a qualified educational institution that sponsors a non rival athletic program that the student participates in configuring an exchange to execute trading of one or more futures contracts and facilitating at least one trade on the exchange between a seller of one or more futures contracts and a buyer of one or more futures contracts. In the present context a student and his or her corresponding educational institution may become qualified by entering into an underlying contractual commitment such as the aforementioned NLI or the like. Also in the present context futures contracts tradable on the exchange may include both those that are initially bought by the qualified student educational institution or both as well as those initially or subsequently procured by investors.

Optionally the method includes storing trade information data corresponding to each of the trades. Such data may be aggregated to provide information relating to market liquidity trading or transaction revenues and other such data as the exchange operators regulators and others may find useful. Configuring the exchange may include electronically connecting a host computer to a remote client computer through a network. In this way a trading algorithm that can be installed in or otherwise cooperative with one or more of the host computer network and remote client computer performs the one or more arranged trades. This may also include functionality beyond the mere executing of trades such as keeping records of the trades made. In this way the trading algorithm or another algorithm cooperative with the trading algorithm may be programmed to establish user accounts. In this way automated record keeping may be implemented. This can be a valuable way to show each user s transactions as well as a way to credit or debit the user s account. In one preferred embodiment the exchange operates as a DCM that complies with operating requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act.

According to another aspect of the present invention a method of managing economic risk associated with producing educational non rival athletic programs is disclosed. The method includes qualifying one or more educational institutions and one or more prospects within that institution s non rival athletic program. Once qualified the prospect educational institution or both may purchase for a fixed premium price an option to purchase at a fixed strike price one or more futures contracts in the institution s non rival athletic program. The method further includes granting the option to the qualified institution student or both so that they may purchase futures contracts once the option has been exercised. The method also includes facilitating the exercise of the option. For example in a configuration where the method is at least partially achieved over an electronic exchange such facilitating may be in the form of the exchange including trading software allowing the qualified student or representative of the qualified educational institution to proceed with paying an option premium after which the qualified student or representative of the qualified educational institution may be able to purchase one or more of the futures contracts through an account held on the exchange by the qualified student or representative of the qualified educational institution. The method additionally includes matching a bid to purchase and an offer to sell one or more futures contract. The method also includes collecting data associated with each matched trade. Such data may include price data volume data as well as other data. Furthermore final settlement prices are established for the futures contracts as well as bids to purchase and offers to sell the futures contracts that are neither matched nor cancelled by the predetermined date.

Optionally the qualified educational institution and student achieve their qualified status by entering into an underlying binding agreement that obligates the institution to provide the student with the opportunity to attend the institution such that the student may participate in academic and athletic program offerings of the institution in return for the student to provide his or her participation in the non rival athletic program. Typically the institution satisfies its part of the agreement by providing grant in aid or other form of tuition reimbursement as well as reimbursement of the cost of other necessities. As discussed above in conjunction with the previous aspect the underlying agreement may be in the form of an NLI or other written instrument. In a particular form the method may further include prohibiting the student and the institution from selling or trading contracts and options associated with any other educational institution s non rival athletic program. In another form the method may be used to prohibit any student and his or her respective institution from opening owning or controlling a short position in the market in the form of one or more open futures contracts in that educational institution s non rival athletic program.

In a preferred form the method operates as a DCM. More particularly buying and selling of one or more futures contracts on the DCM can be either direct or through an intermediary. In another option the maximum total number of open interests and positions that may be held or controlled by a single trading entity cannot exceed the number of futures that a qualified student or qualified institution have the right to purchase. For example if the maximum number of futures contracts that a qualified student or his or her respective educational institution has the right to purchase is one thousand then an investor may control no more than a total of one thousand open interests and positions at any one time. In the present context an investor is either an individual such as those that are registered with the exchange an intermediary of an individual or pool of individuals. The method may further include facilitating trading a composite index. In such form such an index with the corresponding contract referred to as an index futures contract represents an unleveraged long only investment in futures contracts of one or more of the qualified i.e. participating educational institution s non rival athletic programs that are traded on the designated contract market. The composite index serves as a benchmark of the value of the educational institution s non rival athletic program or as a benchmark of the value of the aggregate value of all non rival athletic programs traded on the exchange. In this way the composite index serves as a measure of the educational institution s non rival athletic program or as a measure of the aggregate value of all non rival athletic programs traded on the exchange over time.

A future final settlement value of a futures contract to purchase an interest in the institution s non rival athletic program can be fixed at zero dollars while a future final settlement value of a futures contract to sell an interest in the institution s athletic program is fixed at a value greater than zero dollars. In one example the future value of the futures contract is between a floor value of zero dollars per futures contract and a ceiling value of one hundred dollars per futures contract.

According to another aspect of the present invention a method of hedging the risk of future education costs is disclosed. The method includes granting options to purchase futures contracts to at least one qualified educational institution that sponsors a non rival athletic program and one or more qualified prospects within that educational institution s non rival athletic program. In addition the method includes configuring an electronic DCM to execute trading of one or more of the futures contracts facilitating trading on the electronic DCM between a seller of at least one of the futures contracts and a buyer of at least one of the futures contracts. Such a transaction generates a transaction fee for the operator of the exchange and the operator may distribute at least a portion of the transaction fee revenue to a scholarship fund or other fund to further the educational institution s academic mission. Optionally the method can be used to subsidize at least a portion of tuition expense of one students in the student body of the qualified educational institution. Such subsiding may come from a portion of the revenues generated by the transaction fees.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a device for trading derivative contracts of one or more educational institutions is described. The device includes a data input a data output a communications link and a computer readable medium onto which trading software or a related algorithm can be placed or operated. The data input receives trading instructions or requests for trading information from the trader while the data output can convey for example visually through a display screen or hard copy printout or aurally through a speaker either the input trading instructions or request for trading information that may be of interest to the trader. Such trading information may include among other things a list of participating educational institutions current bid or ask prices quantity available open contracts recently completed contracts or news or other information pertaining to one or more contracts that are available for trade as well as the educational institutions to which those contracts correspond. The communications link allows electronic connection between one or more of the data input and data output to a trading exchange while the computer readable medium is cooperative with them such that the trading software or related algorithm loaded on the medium can instruct one or more parts of the device to perform a trade.

Thus when the trader places an offer to sell or a bid to buy the contract through the data input an algorithm on the computer readable medium processes data associated with the bid or offer and compares it against currently available contracts and their price quantity or other trading parameter in order to establish a trade between the trader and another trader who makes a complementary offer or bid on the contract. In the present context a complementary bid or offer is one that upon satisfaction of one or more trading criteria can be paired with an opposing offer or bid such that ownership of the contract is conveyed from the seller to the buyer in exchange for money another contract or item of comparable value. As an example bids and offers can be matched based on price quantity or like criteria. Likewise other factors such as counterparty credit limit trade clearing trade settling or other appropriate indicia may form the criteria necessary to effect matching complementary trade positions. Furthermore terms such as bid offer and ask are used in the present disclosure in both particular and colloquial forms. For example the term offer may be understood colloquially to represent a general buy or sell request with no loss of specificity to a particular side taken by a trader in an underlying trade.

In one particular form the contracts are based on mutually agreed upon obligations for example contractual commitments such as an NLI between one or more prospects and the educational institution. While the NLI is the most common contractual vehicle for binding an institution and a prospect the present inventors believe that other such vehicles either presently known or developed in the future may be used to ensure an underlying commercial relationship. Thus any contract that mimics the attributes of an NLI contract would suffice to form the underlying relationship. The proposed exchange would provide a trading platform on which qualified institutions and qualified prospects could purchase and exercise options and sell futures on their specific non rival athletic program while the general public could buy and sell futures on any participating institution s non rival athletic program. The present inventors believe that using the NLI as the underlying commodity or instrument is sufficient to sustain significant market activity as recruiting and signing prospects is already embedded in the public consciousness.

The device is preferably in the form of a computer implemented trading system that involves a network including one or more host computers and one or more client computers linked to the host. Such a system allows buy and sell orders initiated at the client devices to be matched up by the host machine. There are numerous optional configurations for the computer readable medium including hard disk drive compact disk CD digital video disk DVD floppy disk flash memory and propagated signal transmitted over the communications link. The computer readable medium can be resident with one or more of the data input data output and trading exchange. In the present context the term resident means that physically the medium is situated in on or cooperative with the respective device in such a way that together they function as a unitary whole. This may include having the medium adjacent the other components of the computer. For example if the medium is resident on a laptop computer it is either enclosed inside or readily attachable to the frame or case of the laptop or may be signally connected thereto. Likewise if the medium is resident on a desktop computer it can be enclosed within or signally connected to the case input output or memory. One or more of the data input and data output can be configured as a graphical user interface thereby facilitating ease of use. In another form the data input and data output include a client terminal configured to send receive and view data related to one or more of a placed order a completed trade or trading information.

In another option the trading information is arranged in a database that includes identification of one or more educational institution s athletic programs that are available for trading through the device. Other database information may include current trading price and current number of the contract that corresponds to the identified program that are available for trading. Furthermore the database may also include more detailed contractual obligation information such as identification of the number of prospects who are contractually obligated to the identified program. The database may also be configured to include identifying information about such prospects. The same could apply to authorized trading intermediaries or pools of the participating institutions. The present inventors envision this as a way to enhance security as an individual purporting to be a prospect or intermediary or pool could be cross checked against the database to ensure that the prospect or intermediary or pool in fact has entered into a qualifying underlying commercial relationship.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a device for trading futures relating to a non rival college athletic program is disclosed. The device includes a central trading platform a database made up of a collection of available non rival athletic programs from which a trader may choose to trade means for exchanging order information such as trader input pertaining to the futures contracts of the non rival college athletic program means for executing a trade of futures relating to the non rival college athletic program and means for informing traders of a contract fill status. Each of the athletic programs within the database includes identification that distinguishes one program and its related futures contracts from another.

Optionally the central trading platform is an electronic trading platform made up of one or more processing units one or more memory storage devices to exchange data with the processing unit or units and related computational componentry. The various means for exchanging executing and informing may be a computer program that is cooperative with the platform. Thus the means may be embodied in computer software firmware or hardware and includes algorithms that in conjunction with the aforementioned computational componentry can perform the desired function. The input interface can receive data associated with futures contracts relating to one or more non rival college athletic programs selected from the database. As stated above in conjunction with the previous aspects the derivative nature of the contract for example a futures contract has as an underlying asset a contractual commitment between a prospect and a particular educational institution. In a preferred form the contractual commitment is an NLI between an athletic prospect and the particular college or related educational institution. The computer program module provides instruction to the processing unit so that trader buy and sell orders selected from the database can be matched. The computer program module is further operative to enable not just the trading transaction but also contract listing availability price quantity or the like. The device may further include the ability to settle a trade and clear the trade. In another option the device need not be an automated computer based system where some of the features can be used in a manner generally similar to the open outcry method where certain functions such as means for exchanging contract order information means for executing a trade and a means for informing traders could be performed using human intermediaries equipped with mechanical or electrical members including paper based hard copies to convey and record contract order information. The device may further be configured as an exchange such that it may be particularly tailored to the trading of futures relating to one or more non rival college athletic programs. In a particularly desirable form the exchange can operate as a designated contract market.

According to still another aspect of the invention an article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for executing a trade of one or more futures contracts relating to one or more college athletic programs. In the article the computer readable program code includes means for causing a computer to accept at least one bid from a buyer means for causing the computer to accept at least one offer from a seller means for causing the computer to match the bid and the offer thereby effecting the trade and means for causing the computer to notify the buyer and the seller that the trade has been executed. These means may be in the form of program code segments portions routines subroutines or the like to ensure proper execution of the command contained in those means. The program when installed in an appropriate computer enables the computer to trade athletic futures contracts such as the non rival futures contracts discussed in conjunction with the previous method aspects on an electronic exchange. The program code recorded on the medium can perform numerous functions including but not limited to listing available futures contracts accepting trader input keeping track of the trader s account displaying information pertaining to currently available trade orders completing a trade and reporting the results of the trade to the trader. The computer readable program code may include or have access to one or more databases that contain contractual obligations between a college and an athletic prospect. In this way such database and program code can help ensure that a particular college and athletic prospect can participate in trading college athletic futures contracts.

Referring first to a computerized system is employed to provide the electronic infrastructure for an automated embodiment of the device of the present invention. A host computer is linked by a network to numerous remote client devices such that together they take advantage of the network s broad based communications capability for having one or more remote machines communicate with and transfer information and related data to and from the host computer server mainframe minicomputer or related central machine. In one form the network can be a direct dedicated connection between the host computer and one or more remote client devices . Preferably the dedicated connection provides high bandwidth such as can be found in T1 lines Ethernet lines or local networks. In another form the network can be the internet generally and the World Wide Web or more concisely the web specifically. In either configuration such a distributed approach allows any number of traders to simultaneously connect to the host computer to enable real time trading. It also enables the traders to exercise control from a location convenient to the trader regardless of the physical situs of the host computer communication link such as network or other components of system . In such a way a user can control the transmission of information originated at remote client device and benefit from the exchange of information with host computer as long as communication between the remote client device and host computer is available. In one form either or both of the host computer and the remote client device may be general purpose digital computers that can be suitably programmed to accomplish the trades and listing of available trades discussed herein. In the present disclosure remote client device may also be referred to as a remote client computer or more simply a computer the degree of specificity will be apparent from the context.

All traders who are connected to the host computer have equal access to order routing for example order entry modification cancellation confirmation fill and related management market data and other information relating to trading the futures contracts discussed herein. The real time availability of market data and related information gives each trader the ability to quickly ascertain market movements. Relevant information can include but is not limited to the current trading price of the contracts then offered as well as volume of trades relating to a particular non rival athletic program within a particular institution. Connectivity to provide such order routing and market data can be achieved through interfaces between the trading customer and the host computer . Such interfaces can use either proprietary or well known industry standard protocols such as the Financial Information eXchange FIX protocol or an Application Programming Interface API .

The host computer can be set up to conduct the same administrative functions normally performed by a conventional floor trading exchange including taking trade orders matching competing trades providing current trading information to all participating traders ensuring the security and integrity of the trades as well as maintaining a proper accounting of positions and to what accounts corresponding debits and credits should be placed in to ensure prompt and accurate clearing and settlement of all trading contracts in the system . One attribute of the system is that by its automated operation it does not interfere with the natural operation of the market. Thus outside of a minimum and maximum contract value it is solely the marketplace made up of the connected traders that determines price movements of the contracts being traded not the system or its operator. What control the operator does have is preferably limited to the aforementioned security administration and trading protocols all of which can be implemented through trading software also known as a trading application . Likewise trading and accounts can be set up so that the traders may maintain their anonymity or be known to other traders.

Preferably system includes redundancy to ensure uninterrupted operation. Examples include distributed processing and computation capability redundant software implementation database rollback schemes a statement in SQL where proposed changes in a pending database transaction are cancelled and other methods known to those skilled in the art. In addition the system is scalable including high throughput i.e. bandwidth communications links and additional processors to handle increases in trading load. The system also includes security and data integrity features that control access to the system as well as perform authentication and verification of trading transactions. It will be appreciated that existing conventional authentication methods could be used to promote accurate secure operation. Such security measures also can be used to monitor fund activity for example deposits and withdrawals within traders accounts. Furthermore built in third party operations and automated systems can be employed including those for verification authentication and fulfillment of credit card and related transactions. Encryption protocols and software for example secure shell SSH secure sockets layer SSL and transport layer security TLS can be used in conjunction with a multiplicity of trader verification steps by the host computer to promote security for the trade orders between the host computer and the remote client device of the subscribing trader. As will be described in more detail below additional security is ensured through the use of unique trader identifiers known only to the system and the individual trader.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative hardware environments may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention and as such the precise configuration of the system presently depicted in is not intended to limit the present invention. As will be further understood by those skilled in the art the term network may encompass various forms of connectivity between two or more machines including point to point shared dedicated intermittent or the like. The terms network web and internet are understood by those skilled in the art as being possessive of particular attributes that distinguish each from the other. For example the web is more precisely thought of as a subset of internet sites. Nevertheless each of these terms may be used interchangeably in the present context to convey the necessary host and client connectivity unless specifically noted.

The web is a hypertext based system. In that way it can use its hypertext protocols and language on network to facilitate communication between a server e.g. the host computer and a client such as the remote client device . Hypertext markup language HTML is the language used by web servers to create and connect documents that contain network addresses called hyperlinks which allow a user to navigate through a web site. For example HTML functions as a mark up language that breaks the document into syntactic portions that specify layout and contents. As will additionally be understood by those skilled in the art the web and other network connections may be through either a wired or wireless configuration the latter in the form of radio frequency RF or related waves across the electromagnetic spectrum. One particular form of wireless connectivity can be in the form of a satellite based system that can relay data worldwide employing laser or related optical or electronic carriers. Particular forms of wired communication configurations include conventional telephone lines as well as co axial cable fiber optic bundles or the like. A market data feed can be used to provide up to date information related to the market various institutions and their athletic or educational programs or other information such as streaming quote information that may be of interest to a trader. Market data feed can be provided to host computer by satellite the internet or any other communication link known to those skilled in the art. Moreover market data can be disseminated by the host computer to remote users through various channels including the operator of the host computer trading software C third party trading application programs quote vendors or the like. Such information updates are compatible with either electronic trading or open outcry trading configurations.

Connection between the remote client devices and the host computer within the network may be made using any suitable network interconnection rules a commonly used example of which is the TCP IP protocol for transmitting packets of data over a wide or local area network where the latter may be a node within the former. TCP IP is a popular internet protocol because it provides file transfer electronic mail and remote log in capability for large numbers of host and client systems. TCP is often used in conjunction with a file transfer protocol FTP to transfer files between computers linked together by the internet. Arbitration between computers can take place through various systems known to those skilled in the art such as a Token Ring or Ethernet. TCP IP is configured to run on top of these protocols.

The remote client devices may be in the form of a computer personal digital assistant telephone including cellular phones touch screen pager or other device suitably configured to communicate with the host computer . When the remote client device is in the form of a computer it may include a microprocessor a memory storage device also referred to simply as memory including volatile random access memory RAM and nonvolatile read only memory ROM an input such as a mouse keyboard or voice recognition system an output such as a monitor or related display as well as software also referred to as programs or applications to facilitate cooperation between the various computer components as well as between different devices within the system . Throughout the remainder of this disclosure references to computer are meant to cover the particular embodiment of remote client device yet will be considered to encompass the other forms of remote devices shown in . Thus any electronic device that accepts structured input processes it according to prescribed rules and produces the results of that processed input as output would qualify as a computer in the present disclosure. Such interpretation is consistent with the von Neumann architecture of a computer which includes an input output memory arithmetic logic unit for example the aforementioned microprocessor and a central control unit to orchestrate operations. In this context the personal digital assistant telephone pager or related devices discussed above could be configured to operate as a rudimentary computer and as such would be within the scope of that term s present definition. The computer may also include communication hardware for supporting the transfer of data between it and the host computer .

Software comes in various forms including operating system software A and application specific software B. An example of the former such as Microsoft Windows is that which allows the latter to make use of the input output and other hardware components within the computer . Application specific software B can run on top of the operating system software A performing functions based on user input. Examples of application specific software B include word processing and trading specific software C the latter of which is of particular interest in the present context. Application specific software B used for receiving and transmitting data can be loaded into one or both of the host computer and the computer . Software may include web browsing capability called browser software as either operating system software A or application specific software B. One popular example is Microsoft s Internet Explorer.

To meet technology needs the trading software C of the present invention can be configured as a stand alone i.e. autonomous system or could be coupled to other presently available commercial systems of which there are numerous examples such as the on Exchange Extensible Clearing System owned by The Clearing Corporation of Chicago Ill. or X Trader owned by Trading Technologies International of Chicago Ill. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange s Globex Trading System Electronic Broking Services EBS or many other such systems any of which can be implemented on host computer . In either event it will be appreciated by those skilled in the programming art that trading software C be configured to facilitate trading between host computer and remote client device in a manner consistent with the principles of operation disclosed herein. Furthermore it is well within the skill of a programmer in the trading art to create the necessary software C to accomplish the required listing trading and record keeping calculations. In addition trading software C can be provided on any computer readable medium such as the memory storage device discussed above as well as on portable storage such as compact disks floppy disks tape flash memory or the like. It will be appreciated that the trading software C can be configured to facilitate the trading of the novel options and futures contracts associated with the production of educational athletics. Accordingly the invention disclosed is not limited to any specific embodiment of the computer programs including trading software C disclosed herein.

Connection between trading software C and a commercial electronic trading system such as those discussed above can be through means known to those skilled in the art including internet connectivity or direct connectivity the latter through such approaches as a T1 line Ethernet connection hybrid or other high bandwidth line. Preferably in situations where the trading software C is being used as a front end system with a larger electronic trading system the two are fully compatible with one another so that among other things proper order entry and cancellation is ensured as well as verification of same proper connectivity login message sequencing is ensured all critical market data and related information be received and displayed be readily upgradable based on trading needs or changes in market conditions and avoid disruptions to other markets that may be running simultaneously on the electronic trading system. An electronic trading system platform can be of either an open or closed architecture where the former would enable ease of access to individual forms of trading software including situations where the trading software C is proprietary. Since such systems are well known in the art they will not be discussed in further detail.

In certain architectures some functions are performed by the host computer while others are performed on the remote computer . For example in the client server based approach much of the graphics and other memory intensive data can be pre stored on the remote client computer thereby allowing the less cumbersome input and requests as well as host computer response to proceed at a more rapid pace.

The host computer may be equipped with a web server and appropriate web browser interface as well as one or more databases . As mentioned above at least one form of software is used for connecting to the web through various components including a web browser and various servers especially those for hypertext transfer protocol HTTP structured query language SQL and file transfer protocol FTP as well as an interpreter for script such as Javascript . HTTP is the protocol used by the servers and their clients to communicate using HTML hyperlinks that upon clicking execute the hyperlink to retrieve the linked information. SQL is a popular language used to create modify and retrieve tabular data such as that used in relational database management systems . The HTTP server establishes and manages the connection to the internet as one form of network as well as maintain a web site. Pages used to convey the information may be written in conventional internet compatible languages such as extensible markup language XML standard generalized markup language SGML virtual reality markup language VRML or the aforementioned HTML. Web accessible information is available between connected machines and is identified by a uniform resource locator URL that specifies the location of a file containing such information in terms of a specific computer and a location on that computer. Any computer with an internet protocol IP address that is connected to the internet can access one or more files of web accessible information by invoking the proper communication protocol and specifying the URL.

In one embodiment computer can be equipped to process Java or related machine independent script instructions to facilitate the display of moving animation and related dynamic information. In addition software components referred to as applets can be encoded in the script to interact with the trader locally to perform a specific function on the client computer . These applets are transferred to the web browser that is loaded on computer along with other web page information to be executed by the interpreter. These applets can further cause the web browser to retrieve information via hypertext links thus data acted upon by the applet can be located on the same or a different web page and even on a different server entirely . At the beginning of each trading session trading software C is preferably transmitted to or activated by each subscribing trader in the case of the former it is transmitted by the host computer in the form of a feature rich applet. The trading software C enables the trader to display graphical user interface GUI screens such as those shown in on display the trader may navigate through them using a mouse or other conventional pointing device. Such device may be used to click on various HTML icons as well as allow input into various fields information germane to a particular trade or the trader s account. Thus by using these interactive locations displayed on these GUI screens traders may submit dynamically written queries to data tables maintained by the host computer .

Programs such as that used to facilitate the present trading system may be provided by the host computer upon an appropriate log in sequence by a user of the computer or as part of a downloadable package that is provided to the user once that user subscribes to exchange of the present invention. Such programs can be written in any well known internet compatible language such as Dynamic HTML Active X or the aforementioned Java. These languages allow internet publishers to create complex multimedia web pages of text graphics tables buttons images sounds and videos each identified by an HTML tag that define the above mentioned functions. Possible trader interfaces may include HTML pages Java applets and servlets Java or Active Server pages or other forms of network based GUIs known to those of skill in the art. In one example traders connected through the internet can submit HTML requests via Java Remote Method Invocation RMI a Java application programming interface for performing remote procedure calls or Internet Inter Orb Protocol IIOP an implementation of the more abstract Global Internet Inter Orb Protocol GIOP . Both RMI and IIOP can run on top of the standard TCP IP protocol.

In operation the remote client computer in response to instruction from trader input executes a buy or sell order by communicating the trader s input with host computer . Display is configured to show data from database in graphical or related user friendly format. Database may be situated in memory or may be intermittently fed to host computer or remote client computer through periodic updates from a data and information service such as a trading information service or the like. The host computer includes in addition to many of the attributes previously discussed in conjunction with the remote client computer above the ability to send receive and operate on information contained in databases such information may include contract identifier information for example the name of the non rival athletic program contract within a particular educational institution being traded price quantity presently available on the exchange news or other such information that a trader may find useful. The software resident on or otherwise used by host computer may be similar to or have different features from the software of the remote client computer so long as communication and trade execution between the host computer and remote client computers are not adversely impacted.

Trading software C can among other things manage individual trader accounts receive trader input match bids between traders then execute clear and settle all trades. The trading software C may also include security measures to ensure that all transactions are protected. In one form the trading software C may be executed by the host computer although in alternative embodiments such software may also be executed on the remote client computer . The databases can be utilized to reproduce the information available in a traditional floor trading system as well as to maintain dynamically updated information of all pertinent trading information and data on an individual institution s non rival athletic program. Additional updated information on exchange subscribers and their accounts as well as a history of all bids including quantity price date and time of receipt trader identification and trade status may also be maintained by the host computer . The software C may also process data from individual or aggregate trading activity in the system to provide other information that a trader may find useful including contract volume past and current market and contract history as well as market concentration and volatility.

Trading software C may include an applet that has means for accepting and verifying user input and means for transmitting that user input to the host computer enabling the user to engage in trading activities. Such input may include logging onto the system navigating a web site through HTML page requests viewing market data and news making trades on futures contracts and monitoring an investment. This coupled with all of the aforementioned security accounting and related functions allows trading software C to be configured to handle most if not all of the trader s needs. Thus for internet based access and trading the only application software B besides trading software C needed on the computer is a conventional web browser although it will be appreciated that other software such as operating system software A is typically also present.

Some of the electronic or screen based commodity trading systems in use today require a broker specialist telephone operator or other intermediary between the trader and the trading floor while others are fully automated so that traders can complete a trade without the need for such intermediaries. Either form is compatible with the system and method of the present invention although the fully automated approach has the potential to reduce the likelihood of human error or abusive trading practices in the execution clearing and settlement of trades. Likewise an automated system advantageously allows for automated record keeping.

Referring next to in conjunction with when a user first connects to the host computer of system a welcome screen shows up on display of computer revealing a banner and numerous icons or buttons in the form of HTML links including one that can describe the basic services offered by the present exchange one that will lead to a current list of the most active i.e. most widely traded contracts as well as new subscriber i.e. member registration and present member log in . For example if a user wants to find out which institutions non rival athletic programs have been the most actively traded he or she clicks on the icon which routes the user to the appropriate screen as described in more detail below. HTML links and may also be used for various commercial entities that purchase advertising space that appears on the screen . Additional icons can also be used to provide information regarding contacting the operators of the exchange explanation of non rival athletic program commodities a homepage or the like. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the precise arrangement of icons on the screens can be varied according to aesthetic or functional needs. For example in an alternate version the screens can include fewer icons to present simplified choices for the trader.

By clicking on the present member log in icon the trader is routed to a log in screen . Some of the screens including screen contain interactive fields that allow the input of user specific information into computer . Screens with fields for input are referred to as form pages where the input fields enable information to be sent to an HTTP server for further action. Referring next to screen includes in addition to a banner which may or may not be generally similar to that of welcome screen fields where the subscribing trader can provide an identifying username and password then click on the log in icon . This instructs the browser to post the information contained in the fields back to the HTTP server which analyses the incoming data and looks for information to instruct it how to deal with the trader s request. The HTTP server passes a script file not shown from the HTML page to a script interpreter which extracts input tag information and forwards it to the program instructed by the script file. By way of example the script file may instruct the script interpreter to have the SQL server write the passed information to a database stored on the local memory storage device . The script file could further instruct the script interpreter to request information from the database in which case the SQL server extracts the requested information and then passes it back to the HTTP server for use by the web browser.

If the trader has forgotten his or her password or username he or she can click on the links which will redirect the trader to another screen not shown where the trader will be queried to provide secret information such as a social security number in conjunction with a mother s maiden name or the like based on an earlier question provided during registration after which the host computer will mail back a new username and or password to the e mail address provided in the user s registration database. Prospective i.e. new members may register on line for the service provided by the present invention by clicking on an icon which will reroute the user to one or more registration screens not shown which may query the registrant for information that will be used to set up a new account. Part of the registration process includes the registrant choosing a unique username and password both of which will be used for subsequent log in after registration. By providing an e mail address the registrant can receive additional registration and related instructional information. The registrant will have the option of funding the account on line or through various conventional ways such as check wire transfer money order or the like . Once the registrant receives a password and has appropriately funded the account he or she may begin trading up to the amount of such funding.

Referring next to in conjunction with once the trader is logged in as an authorized user he or she is greeted with a home screen that identifies the trader by name that was provided during registration. Furthermore once the trader username and password have been verified by the host computer as identifying a subscribing trader the host computer transmits for viewing on the display the trader s personal account information obtained from database . Such information could be displayed directly on screen or can be accessed by clicking on one or more icons such as icon or . By having the trader be properly logged in and verified all subsequent transaction data transmitted back and forth between the host computer and the logged in remote client device is associated with that unique trader. Authentication devices such as cookies residing in the remote client device s HTTP browser which can be transmitted to the HTTP server of host computer may also be employed to ensure security. Such a system of identification and security allows the system to reliably identify data inputs that are have been generated by a unique and approved subscribing trader.

Icons near the top of the screen can be used to provide general information. For example if the member is desirous of changing password he or she can click on the change password icon which will lead to another screen not shown with another set of instructions. It will be appreciated that features such as the change password icon could be placed in other suitable locations as well as on other screens. In addition to the screen displaying the trader s personal account summary available funds recent trades open i.e. unfulfilled contracts and important dates relating to the NLI process for various sports it has an icon that allows the trader to select a particular educational institution in which he or she may be interested in trading. Such choice sends the trader to screen discussed in more detail below. Optionally screen can include updates to one or more non rival athletic programs of particular interest to a trader. Such information can be in the form of a moving ticker or banner that scrolls across the bottom of the trader s screen . Thus for example if a trader who is an Ohio State fan wants to keep tabs on futures trading of Michigan s non rival athletic program he or she can enter such target programs in another screen not shown the exchange will store this information in database or can retrieve it from another source such as market data feed and will automatically forward information pertaining to SYMto the trader s screen . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such information can be provided continuously or as important triggering events occur.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that selection of a particular non rival athletic program through icon can proceed in any order. Once the non rival athletic program icon is selected the trader is routed to screen which is shown with particularity in . A banner indicates to the trader that a list of all the non rival athletic programs that have futures contracts available for trading. From this list or field which includes HTML features a particular non rival athletic program A may be selected merely by clicking on the name of the desired program. In the event the trader does not know the name of the program a search aide icon not shown which may be based on a program name state city or the like may be included.

By selecting the name of a particular non rival athletic program A from screen the trader is routed to screen as shown with particularity in . In addition to a trading icon icons and that are unique to the non rival athletic program chosen from screen can be selected so that the trader can get publicly available news statistics schedules recruiting or related information that the trader may find useful. With regard to the chosen non rival athletic program again SYMin this example other information such as that shown in fields A E give the trader the most up to date information on what the current bid and ask price as well as last price change and cumulative volume which can be measured in any convenient metric such as total dollar value or the total number of futures contracts of all traded SYMcontracts in the current period can also be shown. As with other information provided to the trader from the exchange the trading information of fields A through E is updated periodically for example continuously to ensure real time or near real time delivery based on input from the market data feed or database . Details pertaining to futures contracts can be displayed in field including the date that the contracts expire. An overview of a trading histogram may also be shown covering a length of time for example day week month or season to date chosen by the trader.

By clicking on the trade icon the trader instructs the exchange to proceed to the trading screen . Referring with particularity to in conjunction with the user may buy or sell non rival athletic program futures by clicking on the appropriate icon . To help the trader quickly ascertain the price status of the program at issue fields and show the current bid and ask values respectively. A histogram depicting price fluctuations over a recent period can additionally be used to inform the trader. As trades are made the screen of each logged in trader can be continually updated for example at preset intervals or upon a preset or otherwise significant change in a particular program s price or other measurable parameters thereby enabling each trader to make further trading decisions based on up to the minute information regarding current contract prices and trade volume. The status of an open contract can be updated automatically through for example periodic automated updates sent from host computer including volumes and prices as well as trends to help keep a trader informed. Subscribing traders also have the option of submitting dynamic queries to the host computer at any time.

If the trader is interested in buying futures contracts on the institution again using SYMas the example he or she clicks on the buy icon . When this happens the exchange sends the trader to screen which is shown with particularity in . This screen gives the trader the opportunity to input desired price and number of contracts in fields and subject to funding availability as previously discussed. Once these values are entered the submit icon is clicked. This directs the trader to a verification screen shown with particularity in that asks the trader to verify the price and quantity of futures contract that were entered from the previous screen . In addition the exchange is checking the trader s account for an adequate deposit in his or her account to enable the requested trade. If the trader s funds are insufficient a message can be sent from the host computer to the remote client device altering the trader of the shortage. In addition immediately upon receiving an order and entering it into the database the host computer sets up a reserve against each new order. This reserve can be in the form of a deposit placed in the trader s account. Furthermore the host computer can update each trader s account upon the occurrence of any action against that trader s account. In such way the host computer will not perform any trade that would cause a trader s account to become overdrawn thereby eliminating a major source of account errors. If the values shown in fields and are in agreement with the trader s expectations the trader clicks an appropriate verification icon A which then sends the trader to screen . If the values displayed are not in accordance with the trader s expectations icon B can be pushed thereby sending the trader back to the input fields of screen .

If the displayed information is correct and the trader clicks on icon A the trader is forwarded to screen shown with particularity in . The trader receives confirmation of a placed order on screen with indication of the name number and price of contracts bought or sold. Icon gives the trader the option of instantly cancelling the just placed order as long as it has not been accepted as indicated by notice . As stated before there are various ways of facilitating the trade. For example trading can occur in either a bid matching exchange format or a variation of a pari mutuel format where the following discussion is based on a bid matching form of exchange. The host computer processes the trader s order by placing it in memory such as that of memory storage device . The order is a data structure that may include among other things a trader s name account number time and date of the order nature of the contracts bought or sold and cash balance in the account. An icon for cancelling open contracts can be clicked this opens a dialog box not shown that contains a listing of that trader s active contracts as well as the ability to pick and choose such as by clicking or otherwise highlighting what trades to cancel. As with buying contracts cancellation of a presently open position requires a verification step somewhat analogous to what was previously described. Upon the confirmation of the trader s order the transaction data is compiled and transmitted to the host computer preferably using the aforementioned encryption means. Upon submission of the original order by the remote client device the exchange reserves or withdraws from the trader s account the funds that would be needed to finalize a trade based on the order.

Once the trader s order has been placed the exchange searches the database for any reciprocal open contract. As stated above in one form database may reside in memory storage device . The database includes a comprehensive dynamically updated listing of all orders placed in the system including price quantity when placed trader and order identification and bid status. In one form records of trades in database can be in the form of a lookup table. The exchange creates a new record assigning it a time stamp and an open i.e. unfulfilled status identifier to indicate that the order is available to be matched. As indicated by language on the screen the exchange sends confirmation that the system has entered the submitted order confirming the values specified by the trader for price and lot size. Additional language indicating that the order is open and that the trader will receive notification upon completion of the order is also provided. Icons and can be used to allow the trader to proceed with another trade while waiting on the results of the previous trade. For example icon can be used to do more trading on the present athletic program shown as Ohio State in while icon can be used to switch to another institution or athletic program. Thus in this latter case by clicking on icon the trader could be rerouted to list or field of while in the former by clicking on icon the trader could be rerouted to screen shown in .

Returning again to if the user wishes to sell a futures contract he or she follows the same procedure discussed above in conjunction with the buy transaction except instead of clicking on the buy icon he or she clicks on the sell icon . In situations where an investor is attempting to become a market maker the exchange can check for an adequate deposit to cover the investor s position. The software C can be used to run a check against the investor s account to ensure that such deposit is in place. In both the buy and sell scenarios security such as encryption is preferably incorporated to ensure the integrity of the communication regardless of whether the order is a buy or sell.

In a configuration set up as a first in first out order matching scheme the time and price can be made the determining factors. For example all orders at the same price can be filled according to time priority. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the trading art that other approaches or algorithms may be used. For example in a market maker algorithm where trading liquidity may be enhanced by the presence of a trading concern that can establish and maintain a two sided market the concern can be given a guaranteed allocation of any incoming orders in return for complying with market obligations that may be defined by the exchange. In another example pro rata order matching approaches may be used where orders are filled in accordance with price priority. In such case the first order with a price priority will be given matching priority with all others at that price will be at least partially filed depending on the available quantity of remaining orders.

With particular regard to the first in first out market matching scheme if the exchange in searching the database for a match does locate one or more matching orders it selects the matching order with the earliest time stamp. The exchange then compares the orders in database to determine if they specify the same or a different lot size if the number of contracts specified is the same the exchange completes the order and sends an indication to the relevant traders that the contract has been filled. If the lot sizes differ the exchange calculates the difference in lot sizes and matches the trader s order with the available lot number of open and reciprocal contracts. The process can be repeated by searching the opposing orders on a first come first serve basis until a match is found or until the trader cancels the order. If after a certain period of time no matching order is found the exchange can optionally proceed to enact a partial fill of the order. This can be done at the trader s request based on for example a query from the host computer or automatically depending on which option the trader selects during setup not shown of his or her account. For example if an open contract to purchase one hundred futures of SYMcould be matched with an open contract to sell fifty shares of SYMat the same price the exchange can match the first fifty of the purchaser s contracts with the fifty seller s contracts thereby completing that contract while leaving the remaining fifty purchaser s contracts for a later match. Thus where an opposing order is submitted at a complementary price but for a different number of contract units a match is preferably still declared and is effectuated for the lesser of the two numbers of units specified by the two traders. This results in filled contracts for each trader for the lesser number of contracts as well as an open order for the contract units remaining unfilled. Once any trade has been completed i.e. fulfilled the host computer sends confirmation to the remote client device instructing the GUI to show the results of the transaction on the trader s display . This confirmation results in a screen display itemizing the number of contracts filled the price and the option to trade additional contracts. This is described in more detail next.

Referring next to whenever a match has been made the exchange s trading software C proceeds to notify the trader of the filled trade as shown in field . Field gives the trader the option to look at details related to the trade by clicking on an HTML word such as the word HERE in the field. The exchange automatically performs all clearing and accounting processes needed to complete guarantee and confirm each trade. The accounting completes the transaction and credits and debits the respective account balances of the traders who are parties to the transaction. The exchange determines whether any portion of the recently filled contracts offset an existing position in that trader s account. The exchange determines the trader s overall position by counting the total number of filled contracts. The exchange determines if the number of filled contracts on both sides are equal and if so debits the trader s account in the amount previously reserved for the current order less the amount allocable to any unfilled contracts still remaining.

If the trader s overall position is not neutral the exchange determines whether such position shown is offset by an opposing position of the newly filled contract. If the newly filled contract does offset the trader s preexisting position the number of new contracts filled is subtracted from the open position and the trader s account record is accordingly updated. In such case the trader s account is credited by multiplying the contract value by the number of offsetting filled contracts less the trading fees associated with the filled contracts. Imbalances in traders positions are maintained until offset through additional trading activities or by final settlement at the end of the trading period.

After account balance checks by the host computer the reserves earlier withheld by the host computer from each trader s account are now applied to clear and to settle the trade. Trading fees or commissions are charged at this time to the account of each matched trader according to predetermined contractual terms and the accounts of the matched traders are debited or credited accordingly. All data pertinent to the trade is recorded by the host computer to database . Position and account information are updated to give the trader a complete set of information pertaining to the trade. This can be valuable for record keeping as well as indicia of the terms of the trade in the event of any dispute. Screen also includes icon that allows the trader the option of pursuing additional trades. In this manner icon can be made to function similarly to that of icons or from screen in .

By way of recap one or more traders enter their orders through trading software C or related front end trading application. A submitted order is deemed to be accepted once the software C has confirmed order validity time stamped the order and sent acknowledgement of the order to the trader. Accepted orders can be kept in a centralized order book which may also be resident on host computer where an entered order is matched to a complementary order from another trader. Depending on the algorithm making up the software C part or all of the order may be executed in one of the manners discussed above. For example in situations where orders are not completely executed the order time stamp may be used for subsequent order prioritization if time priority is a factor in the algorithm. Once a trade has been executed the user receives the contract fill information which is also sent to a clearing system which also may be resident on or cooperative with the host computer for post execution processing.

Referring next to in conjunction with an information screen can be used to inform traders of the most actively traded programs as shown in table . Various forms of information including the name of the institution trading price ranges and trading volume and other data may be presented. In addition to providing other icons that allow the viewer to register for an account ask questions or the like the data contained in table can be in HTML form so that in the event the viewer is already registered if the viewer wants to trade on a particular institution s non rival athletic program clicking on the appropriate program name makes a direct link to that particular program.

Referring next to in conjunction with in situations where the trader is also a qualified prospect or a qualified institution a different screen can be used. As stated before a prospect or an educational institution may become qualified by entering into a binding agreement such as an NLI or other contract with one another. In a manner generally similar to that of screen for other traders screen identifies qualified prospects and qualified institutions by the name that was provided during registration. A significant difference over screen is the option icon that gives the qualified prospect and qualified institution the additional ability to exercise options to buy allotted futures contracts at a predetermined strike price. Once the qualified prospect or qualified institution has paid the option premium for example 100 and purchased futures at a fixed strike price for example 1 they gain the right to sell some or all of their allotted futures contracts for example up to one thousand futures at the market price assuming a matching buyer can be found in a bid matching arrangement. Other icons including account summary available funds open positions and recent trades can be used to keep the trading prospect up to date on the status of his or her account.

Regardless of how the companion market is structured relative to the primary market the subscribing trader will be able to use the same exchange through the same interface performing the same operations and using the same account. In other words the operation is transparent to the trader although it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that minor variations in screen displays to best implement one of the variations discussed above are possible.

The following example can be used in order to better elucidate the concepts of the present invention using a dual i.e. primary and companion market approach. In the example a first Ohio State fan desires a highly touted football prospect to sign an NLI Commitment with Ohio State and has read on a recruiting web site that the prospect has narrowed his college choices to Ohio State and Michigan. The first Ohio State fan bids 20 for each of fifty SYMfutures. On this same date a current Ohio State player whose position the prospect may be seeking in the fall exercises some of his options buys fifty futures at 1 apiece and sells these futures to the first Ohio State fan. The Ohio State University does the same with a second Ohio State fan and both the player and The Ohio State University realize an 850 profit fifty futures times 20 per future less a 100 premium for option and the fifty 1 strike prices per future and exit the market. Note that the 850 profit as well as all profits discussed in this example do not take into consideration the transaction fees i.e. those fees charged by the exchange to complete the trading transaction .

The first Ohio State fan searches the market for other investors who believe the market for SYMfutures has not reached the top. If the first Ohio State fan finds yet another Ohio State fan or an Ohio State speculator willing to pay more than 20 per future perhaps because the price of Michigan futures and Penn State futures has increased to 25 each then the first Ohio State fan sells his or her futures and exits the market making a profit commensurate with the difference between what he or she was able to sell for and what he paid.

The first Ohio State fan also can hedge the risk of holding those futures by trading index futures on a companion market. For example the same day the first Ohio State fan purchased the futures the aggregate mean price per future i.e. the aggregate price of all of the participating institutions is trading at 15 per future. Given that the first Ohio State fan knows that he paid 20 per future the first Ohio State fan speculates that the aggregate mean index future price will increase and hedges his purchase of Ohio State futures by buying 200 index futures at 15 per future.

On the subsequent NLI signing day the prospect sees that SYMfutures are trading at 20 while Michigan futures are trading only at 18 and the prospect after weighing the respective futures prices the academic programs the coaching staff the traditions the athletic opportunities and other factors chooses Ohio State. In addition the aggregate mean index future price settles at 20 with a price per future payout of 5 per future for traders who speculated that futures would settle above 15 per future. The first Ohio State fan is satisfied He has helped secure the prospect for Ohio State. In addition the first Ohio State fan s gain on his index future trade 200 index futures 5 1000 offsets a potential 1000 loss on his purchase of 50 SYMfutures at 20 per future in the primary market.

The final report card of the results of all these transactions is as follows a The Ohio State University realizes 850 b the player realizes 850 c the prospect chooses Ohio State in part because the fans have demonstrated that they will support the non rival Ohio State athletic program he will soon join d the first Ohio State fan breaks even economically but realizes the gain of Ohio State signing the prospect to an NLI Commitment. Lastly the exchange collects transaction fees on the trades in the primary market and companion market of The Ohio State University the player the first Ohio State fan the second Ohio State Fan and distributes a percentage of the transaction fees to the general scholarship funds of all institution s sponsoring non rival athletic programs that are traded on the exchange.

The above example highlights one of the trading scenarios possible with the system and method of the present invention. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art other examples using one or more of the exchange variations discussed above are also possible and fall within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly while certain representative embodiments and details have been shown for purposes of illustrating the invention it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention which is defined in the appended claims.

