---

title: Apparatus and method for making and assembling a multi-lens optical device
abstract: A system for aligning a plurality of high-precision lenses in a lens train. Each of the lenses has at least two alignment tabs disposed around the perimeter of the lens. The lenses are aligned by placing the lenses in a jig having a plurality of high-precision alignment blocks. The lenses are attached to a lower-precision shroud, having slots that receive the alignment tabs. A gap-filling adhesive is used to provide a high-precision fit for the lenses in the shroud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08284506&OS=08284506&RS=08284506
owner: Gentex Corporation
number: 08284506
owner_city: Carbondale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081021
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract Number N00421 04 D 0010 awarded by the Naval Air Warfare Center AD PAX .

The present principles generally relate to optical systems and more particularly to a system and method for alignment of optical elements in relation to each other in an optical device using references on the optical elements.

Within the art of optical device design multiple optical lenses are commonly used together in a variety of optical devices. Multiple lenses often referred to as a lens train are commonly used in optical devices such as cameras telephoto lenses binoculars telescopes microscopes night vision scopes vehicular and marine periscopes and the like.

When fabricating optical devices with multiple lenses the alignment of each individual lens relative to the other lenses in the lens train is critical to achieving the desired optical performance. illustrates a pair of lenses in a lens train in which the lenses are properly aligned with each other. A viewed object falls within the confines of a field of view . Light reflecting off of the viewed object passed through the first lens and is magnified to create an intermediate image not shown . The intermediate image is then focused onto a second lens which performs additional magnification or other optical modification of the intermediate image resulting in a final displayed image . When properly aligned the first lens focuses an image of the object onto the second lens in a predictable and acceptable manner. Centerline illustrates a path that may be ideal for referencing alignment of the first lens and the second lens . In contrast illustrates the lens train with the first lens misaligned with respect to the second lens . Accordingly misaligned first lens does not properly focus an intermediate image onto the second lens resulting in an off center and or distorted displayed image .

The current state of the art teaches methods for aligning lenses with respect to other elements of an optical device using precision housings and the like. In particular with the rise of inexpensive digital cameras many manufacturers have attempted to align camera lenses with optical sensors by providing a precision alignment surface within the housing of the camera. Precision alignment of lenses in the current state of the art requires the lens housing to be manufactured to high tolerances in order to provide a high tolerance fit between the housing and the lenses. The necessity of providing precision lens housings results in an increased manufacturing cost.

In one respect the invention comprises an optical device comprising a lens train including a plurality of lenses each of the plurality of lenses having a lens body and at least two lens tabs extending outwardly from the lens body and a housing having a plurality of lens tab slots each of the plurality of lens tab slots being configured so that the one of the plurality of lens tabs extends through the lens tab slot when the housing and plurality of lenses are fully assembled.

In another respect the invention comprises an apparatus comprising a lens train including a plurality of lenses and a housing in which the plurality of lenses are contained each of the plurality of lenses having a lens body and at least two lens tabs extending outwardly from the lens body the shape and orientation of each of the at least two tabs on each of the plurality of lenses being different than the shape and or orientation of each of the at least two tabs on each of the other lenses of the of the plurality of lenses.

In yet another respect the invention comprises a method for aligning a plurality of lenses in a lens train to form an optical device the method comprising positioning each of the plurality of lenses on an alignment jig at a first tolerance that is no less than a predetermined alignment tolerance affixing each of the plurality of lenses to a housing at a second tolerance that is no less than the alignment tolerance the housing being manufactured to a tolerance that is larger than the alignment tolerance removing the plurality of lenses and the housing from the alignment jig and maintaining the relative position of each of the plurality of lenses within a third tolerance that is no less than the predetermined alignment tolerance after the plurality of lenses and the housing are removed from the alignment jig.

In yet another respect the invention comprises a method comprising positioning a first lens in a first alignment block affixing the first lens to a housing while the lens is positioned in the first alignment block and after the affixing step removing the first lens from the first alignment block with the housing attached.

In yet another respect the invention comprises a method of designing and making a first lens for use as part of an optical device having a plurality of lenses the first lens including a lens body having at least two optical surfaces and a perimeter edge located between the at least two optical surfaces the method comprising forming at least two optical surfaces of the lens body and a perimeter edge having a first perimeter shape the first perimeter shape being a simple closed curve identifying a first portion of the lens body through which light generated by the optical device could potentially pass when the optical device is operated and a second portion of the lens through which light generated by the optical device will not pass when the optical device is operated after the forming step removing at least part of the second portion of the lens body the removing step resulting in the perimeter edge having a second perimeter shape that is a complex closed curve.

The ensuing detailed description provides preferred exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the ensuing detailed description of the preferred exemplary embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the preferred exemplary embodiments of the invention. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

To aid in describing the invention directional terms are used in the specification and claims to describe portions of the present invention e.g. upper lower left right etc. . These directional definitions are merely intended to assist in describing and claiming the invention and are not intended to limit the invention in any way. In addition reference numerals that are introduced in the specification in association with a drawing figure may be repeated in one or more subsequent figures without additional description in the specification in order to provide context for other features.

The present principles are directed to a system and method for alignment of a series of lenses called a lens train or an optical train. In particular a lens train may be used to precisely set the magnification and other advantageous properties of an optical device. It is to be understood that the present principles are described in terms of a system for aligning optical lenses however the present principles are much broader and could potentially be used with other types of optical devices.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended to aid the reader in understanding the present principles and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present principles as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally such equivalents may include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents as yet undeveloped including any elements developed in the future that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Any reference to a lens module step or apparatus is intended to include both singular references and plural references e.g. wherein a reference to a lens may include multiple lenses mounted in a lens carrier or holder or multiple lenses molded together into a single assembly or piece.

In the context of engineering tolerances in this application a first tolerance that is referred to as being larger than a second tolerance is intended to mean that the first tolerance is looser or less precise that the second tolerance. For example a tolerance of 1.0 cm would be larger than a tolerance of 0.1 cm.

Referring now to one embodiment of a lens having a lens body and three alignment tabs is depicted. The lens is preferably a unitary structure precision machined from a single piece of material. The lens is preferably made from an optical grade polymer such as a cyclic olefin copolymer for example. Alternatively any material which is machineable to optical smoothness could be used.

As will be described in greater detail herein one or more of the tabs is used to properly align the lens first in an alignment block and then in a shroud. The features and structure of the alignment block and shroud will be described herein.

In this embodiment each tab and extends outwardly from the lens body and includes two faces and three edges. In the interest of simplicity the faces and edges of tab will be described in detail and it should be understood that tabs and have similarly oriented faces and edges. Tab includes opposing front and rear faces opposing side edges and an end edge . The front and rear faces and side edges and end edge are all preferably flat. As will be described in greater detail herein any of the front and rear faces side edges and end edge may be used as a control surface which is used to precision align the lens during an assembly process. Each of the tabs has a central axis which bisects the width of each tab . For the purposes of this embodiment the width dimension of each tab is distance between the side edges.

In most embodiments it is desirable to minimize the number of tab faces and edges that must engage bearing surfaces of the alignment blocks in order to properly align the lens in an alignment block. Proper alignment of the lens requires precision control of each of the six degrees of freedom which comprise rotation and displacement relative to the X Y and Z axes. Accordingly in this embodiment none of the central axes of the tabs are perpendicular to each other.

The lens body also referred to as the optical field is the primary active optical region of the lens . The lens body comprises a front face a rear face and a perimeter edge that spans from the front face to the rear face . The perimeter edge will comprise a surface in areas in which the front and rear faces do not meet. The shape and contours of the front and rear faces are dictated by the desired optical properties of the lens .

Notably the perimeter edge is irregular in shape in this embodiment. This stands in contrast to most conventional optical lenses which are manufactured with a relatively simple regular perimeter shape e.g. a circular oval or elliptical shape . The irregular shape of the perimeter edge is the result of additional lens material being removed in areas of the lens body through which light is not intended to pass when the lens train is operated.

In order to determine where light will pass when the lens train is operated the lens train is computer modeled using an optics design package such as Zemax or CodeV optical design software. As part of the modeling process the path of light through the lens body is determined. The lens train could be optimized to among other variables provide a low mass and maximum field of view.

Referring now to the lens is preferably manufactured in multiple stages. First the lens body is preferably rough shaped to a perimeter shape preferably comprising a simple closed curve such as a circle or an ellipse. The front and rear faces are then cut to specification which in some applications can include highly complex contours. After the front and rear faces are cut portions of the lens body through which light will not pass as determined by the modeling process are cut away often leaving an irregular complex perimeter shape see perimeter edge . Lens tabs are cut during the machining of the perimeter edge . Cutting away unneeded lens material enables the lens train to be smaller and lighter which is desirable in many applications including mobile devices and helmet mounted display systems for example.

The lens manufacturing steps set forth in the previous paragraph could be carried out using a number of different manufacturing methods. For example the rough shaping of the lens could be performed by an injection molding process and the cutting away of the portions of the lens body through which light will not pass could be performed using a precision machining process. Optionally the front and rear faces could also be rough shaped by the molding process then precision machined. In addition the lens body could be injection molded into a circular shape then rough cut to an elliptical shape then cut to the final irregular perimeter shape. Preferably final machining is performed using an ultra precision diamond machining system.

In this embodiment the plunger is positioned transverse to plunger and both are positioned at approximately the same vertical position. Accordingly referring to plungers may be used to press urge a face of a lens tab for example the face of tab against a bearing surface and position the end edge of the tab for example end edge of tab a desired distance from surface . In other embodiments variations in the number and or position of the plungers are possible depending upon the desired positioning characteristics of the lens that is to be positioned by the block . In addition a different surface could be used as the bearing surface i.e. the surface against which the lens tab is pressed and or more than one surface of the alignment slot could be used as a bearing surface. It is however important that each pair of alignment blocks engage the tabs of the lens retained by that pair of alignment blocks in a manner that secures the lens in the proper position with respect to all six degrees of freedom.

Referring to a plurality of pairs of lens alignment blocks for example blocks are shown arranged on a base . The blocks and base collectively define an alignment jig . Each alignment block is preferably rigidly affixed to the base . Any suitable means could be used to affix the alignment blocks to the base . For example the alignment block flanges such as flanges could be bolted welded bonded or screwed to the base .

Various lens alignment block configurations may be used on the alignment jig in order to accommodate the size configuration and or spacing of the elements in the lens train to be aligned. For example a pair of alignment blocks each having two slots are used in jig because of close spacing of two lenses see . Skilled artisans will recognize that while single and double slotted alignment blocks have been illustrated any number of slots may be employed on a single alignment block.

Alignment blocks may also be provided to align elements of the lens train other than lenses. For example alignment block is used to align an image source assembly see .

In addition to dimensional tolerances each optical component that forms part of the optical device will have a set of alignment tolerances which determine the amount of allowable error in the relative position of each of the optical components. Each set of alignment tolerances may include translational alignment tolerances i.e. allowable translational variation in the X Y or Z axis and rotational alignment tolerances i.e. allowable rotational variation about the X Y or Z axis . For example the set of alignment tolerances for lens define the maximum allowable variation from design specifications in position of the lens in each of the six degrees of freedom. In this context the position of lens means its position relative to the other optical components of the device . The values for the set of alignment tolerances may vary among the optical components of a single optical device. Alternatively a single set of alignment tolerances may be applied to all of the optical components with the tolerances being high enough to provide the desired optical performance of the device.

As discussed above additional optical elements may be mounted in the jig and attached to the shroud. For example shows an image source mounted on alignment block . Additionally the base of the jig may be recessed or otherwise contoured to accept standard or frequently used elements.

It should be noted that the manner in which jig is used represents a departure from the prior art in which adjustable alignment jigs and standard or consistent lens registrations are used. In the present invention a standard consistent alignment block geometry is used and each lens in the optical train is custom cut to provide tab geometry that will enable the lens to be properly positioned.

In this embodiment the alignment tolerances of the lenses used in optical device are preferably on the order of 0.005 millimeters for translation in the X Y and Z axes and 0.01 degrees for rotation in the X Y and Z axes. The dimensional tolerances for the shroud are preferably on the order of 0.13 millimeters.

Referring to an upper portion of a shroud is properly aligned and positioned atop the lenses using a finger plate which is secured to a finger plate block using screws bolts or any other suitable fastener . The finger plate includes three fingers which are attached to the upper portion of the shroud with screws or bolts not visible in which extend through threaded holes also not visible in in the upper portion of the shroud. The upper portion of the shroud includes tab clearance slots. Some of the slots such as slot mate and cooperate with a corresponding slot in a lower portion of the shroud not shown to encircle a tab e.g. tab . Other slots in the upper portion such as slot completely encircle the tab e.g. tab that extends through the slot.

As stated above the use of a larger tolerance manufacturing method for the shroud allows for a lower cost of manufacturing as the shroud itself is generally not critical to the operation of the lens train. It should be understood that the relationship of the lenses to each other and to any additional optical elements is critical to proper lens train alignment. The shroud acts as a frame by which the lenses are maintained in alignment. In order to maintain precision alignment of the lenses after the lenses and upper portion of the shroud are removed from the jig any gaps between each of the clearance slots of the upper portion of the shroud and the tab that extends through each respective clearance slot are filled with a liquid adhesive prior to removal from the jig .

A thick gap filing cyanoacrylate glue is an example of a suitable liquid adhesive. There are a number of properties that are desirable in a preferred adhesive for this application including but not limited to a short cure time water resistance post curing expansion or shrinkage that is within the alignment tolerances for the optical components a coefficient of thermal expansion that is within the alignment tolerances for the expected operating temperature range for the optical device.

When the liquid adhesive has hardened sufficiently to prevent movement of the lenses the finger plate is removed from the finger plate block with the upper shroud and affixed lenses attached. Use of the liquid adhesive enables the position of each of the lenses relative to the shroud to be maintained within its respective set of alignment tolerances after being removed from the alignment blocks.

The lower portion of the shroud not shown is then secured to the upper portion and affixed lenses using any suitable method. For example the finger plate could be flipped over and placed on a flat surface. Then the lower portion of the shroud could be positioned atop the upper portion and secured thereto using an adhesive. The lower portion of the shroud provides some additional structural stability and cooperates with the upper portion of the shroud to encase the lenses and protect them from dust moisture and other material that could be detrimental to the optical performance of the lenses.

The lens alignment and assembly method of the present invention simplifies shroud installation and reduces shroud manufacturing costs because the lens tab alignment slots formed in the shroud can be manufactured to a larger tolerance than the dimensional or alignment tolerances of the lenses.

As a practical matter in order to protect the lenses from dust condensation and other material that could impair the optical properties of the lenses a shroud is preferable in most optical applications. It should be noted that in alternative embodiments other types of structural members could be substituted for the shroud to maintain the relative alignment of the lenses after being removed from the alignment jig . For example a structural member having openings therein could be used in an application in which the lenses will be contained inside a larger protective chamber. As used herein the term housing is intended to refer to any rigid structural member or multiple members used to maintain the relative position of the lenses after being removed from an alignment jig and will remain part of the optical device after it is fully assembled.

Another embodiment of the alignment block is shown in and is generally referred to by reference numeral . In this embodiment the alignment block is comprised of two portions which form three slots when joined. The slots perform the same lens tab alignment function as the slot of alignment block . The middle slot is used with lenses having a third downwardly extending lens tab.

Each slot includes a threaded opening respectively which accommodates a set screw not shown that is used to hold a lens tab located in the slot against the portion of the alignment block . Other types of devices such as pins or spring loaded plungers could be used to hold the lens tabs in place. The middle slot also includes a lateral opening which is used to hold a lens tab located in the middle slot against a side wall .

The two portions are bolted to each other using corresponding holes located in each of the two portions e.g. holes . The alignment block is preferably attached to a base using holes located on the base and corresponding holes located in the portion of the alignment block . A pin not shown is preferably inserted through the holes in the alignment block and the base then secured in position by a screw or bolt. Each pin is preferably precision machined to insure repeatable alignment between the alignment block and the base . The location of other alignment blocks on the base is determined by the location of the mounting holes in the base for each block.

The two piece construction of the alignment block reduces the complexity and cost of adjustments to the lens alignment in block because such adjustments can be made by machining of only one portion . In addition small adjustments may be made to the spacing between the two portions of the alignment block by using shims not shown . The use of shims allows for correction of any errors or inaccuracy in machining of the mating surfaces of the two portions of the alignment block .

While the principles of the invention have been described above in connection with preferred embodiments it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation of the scope of the invention.

