---

title: Microwave and millimeter wave imaging system
abstract: A sensor array having a plurality of modulated slots for microwave and/or millimeter wave imaging. The locations of the slots in the array define a spatial domain away from an object for detecting an electric field from the object. Each of the slots outputs a signal representative of the measured field and the location of the slot. A processor decodes the signals and generates an image of the object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07746266&OS=07746266&RS=07746266
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 07746266
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080320
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided by the terms of grant number NNM06AA06G awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA Marshall Space Flight Center.

Non destructive real time imaging known in the art uses electromagnetic radiation to detect properties of an object under inspection. Generally an electromagnetic field source illuminates the object and an array of sensor elements receives the electric field scattered by the object. Each sensor signal typically requires separate pickup circuitry for discriminating one signal from another. For example conventional modulated scattering techniques MST for imaging use inefficient dipole antennas to sample the field and thus are not sufficiently sensitive particularly for fields at higher frequencies. Switched antenna array techniques for imaging require expensive and bulky radio frequency RF circuitry for each pickup antenna to detect the electromagnetic field from each array element s location. Unfortunately such conventional switched antenna array imaging does not provide sufficient resolution particularly at higher frequencies.

Imaging systems and methods embodying aspects of the invention provide an array of modulated slots receiving and responsive to microwave and or millimeter wave electromagnetic radiation. The locations of the slots in the array define a spatial domain away from an object for detecting an electromagnetic field scattered by the object. Each of the slots outputs a signal representative of the detected field and the location of the slot. By decoding the signals an image of the object can be generated. Aspects of the invention permit high measurement sensitivity high spatial resolution real time operation and portability.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Referring now to an imaging system embodying aspects of the invention provides a robust and highly sensitive system especially for use at relatively high frequencies such as those in the microwave and millimeter wave regions of the electromagnetic spectrum i.e. greater than ultra high frequency . In at least one embodiment the imaging system includes an array for sampling an electric field. The array also referred to as a retina has many array elements or sensors distributed over the retina s spatial extent. As described in greater detail below an embodiment of the microwave and millimeter wave imaging system implements its sensors using modulated slot antennas see cut into or otherwise formed in a conducting screen printed circuit board PCB substrate or the like. Advantageously modulating the slots allows each slot in the array to tag or otherwise identify its own output signal with a unique code for distinguishing one slot from another.

According to aspects of the invention imaging system produces substantially real time images of virtually any object present in the system s field of view. When illuminated by the electromagnetic field the target object causes at least some of the field to scatter in different directions as a function of the object s material and geometrical properties. For instance the illuminating electromagnetic field is associated with incident or irradiating microwaves or millimeter waves. Because microwaves and millimeter waves penetrate into dielectric materials the imaging system can view the interior of an object that comprises such a material. Likewise imaging system can detect and image an object concealed or otherwise located inside of a dielectric material. The imaging system measures the scattered electric field at a number of discrete locations corresponding to a defined spatial domain e.g. a planar cylindrical spherical or arbitrarily shaped portion of a plane located away from the object .

The imaging system also permits inspection of a source of electromagnetic radiation. For example object may itself emit microwave and or millimeter wave electromagnetic radiation that can be measured at array .

Depending on the desired usage of system sensor array can be custom designed to take different shapes. For example array can be made of one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional distributions of sensors . In an alternative embodiment sensor array can be made of a flat or an arbitrarily curved conducting surface any shape that is conformed to a rectilinear or curvilinear grid rectangle square triangle circle arc cone box hemisphere sphere etc. . illustrates an exemplary two dimensional array of sensors arranged in a rectangular pattern.

As shown in the array is integrated with other system components which include a display as well as a receiver and a processor . The receiver receives a signal from each sensor element in the array and communicates this information to the processor . Because the sensors output signals are distinguishable from each other processor knows which signal that receiver receives from which sensor . In an embodiment system utilizes a single receiver for receiving signals from multiple sensors . By properly arranging both spatially and electronically the signals received at receiver from sensors processor obtains a sampled version or map of the actual electromagnetic field incident upon the area of the array from the object being imaged. The processor subsequently processes this map to generate an image of the illuminated object . The processor which is responsible for arranging the signals received from each sensor and performing any higher level processing controls the system timing for electronic tagging and synchronization.

Using special processing of the measurements at the discrete locations i.e. at the locations of sensors system generates an image of the object s spatial and or dielectric profiles on a display . For example imaging system generates and displays a multi dimensional i.e. 2D or 3D image of object such as a holographical image.

As described in greater detail below the size the shape and spacing of slots depends on certain operational characteristics of imaging system . For example the slot of has a length greater than its width length 0.1866 inches width 0.1400 inches . In this example the conductor has a radius of 0.0311 inches and is located midway along the length of slot . The center of conductor is positioned 0.0228 inches off center relative to the width of slot . The bias line resides in a channel in conductive screen 0.0160 inches from the edge of the channel .

Referring further to active element functions to modulate its corresponding slot . When active element is OFF slot passes a signal representative of the electric field incident on the array at its location. But when active element is ON slot does not pass such a signal. The processor triggers operation of active element to modulate slot and thus tag its signal with information identifying its location relative to the other sensors of array .

As arranged to form array the plurality of slots provide for high measurement sensitivity and spatial resolution at relatively higher frequencies. The array which includes modulated slots cut into conductive screen e.g. a metal plate is unpredictably well suited for electric field mapping at microwave and millimeter wave frequencies. Conventional imaging systems by contrast avoid materials such as conducting metals around active elements because of their tendency to reflect back the electromagnetic waves. The array is subsequently integrated with other system components including receiver circuitry processing circuitry and display circuitry i.e. receiver processor and display respectively . Using special processing of the measurements at the discrete locations the system generates multi dimensional images of the object s spatial and or dielectric profiles e.g. holographical images .

In one embodiment the array sensors i.e. modulated slots are placed within close proximity of each other to provide appropriate sampling of the electromagnetic field from object . Moreover the design of slot beneficially affords weak mutual coupling between adjacent slots. Using the slot as an array element i.e. sensor allows for optimizing electromagnetic field sampling performance by reducing the spacing and mutual coupling between the sensors which are otherwise two opposing objectives. Each of the sensors passes a signal proportional to the field at the particular element s location in array .

By detecting relatively small changes in the electric field over the area of sensor array the imaging system permits highly sensitive observation of subtle object features in the obtained image. Moreover imaging system rapidly samples the electric field to provide substantially real time operation. And because sensor array is relatively compact and has closely spaced sensors in at least one embodiment of the invention imaging system provides images of high fidelity and spatial resolution.

The sensors embodied by slot antennas and incorporated into array may take various designs such as sub resonant slots or resonant slots depending on the particular application of the system . Moreover available modulation types include sequential parallel and hybrid. Sequential modulation involves modulating one slot at a time while parallel modulation involves modulating a plurality of slots at the same time e.g. using orthogonal modulation codes . In a hybrid modulation type where some slots are modulated in parallel and some are sequentially modulated different modulation patterns are possible.

Further aspects of the invention relate to loading the modulated slots with active element to affect the transmission properties of the slots. For example modulated slots can be resonant sub resonant wide band reconfigurable resonant and shape reconfigurable. Resonant slots have a compact design e.g. slot spacing less than 2 where is the free space wavelength and are narrow band but have a relatively high sensitivity. In other words slots open and close efficiently at a single frequency. Sub resonant modulated slots are similarly compact in design with a relatively low sensitivity but can be used over a wider range of frequencies. Efficiency is a trade off of a wider band of operation. Wide band slots are larger elements with moderate sensitivity over a range of frequencies. As an example slot spacing between wide band slots is in the order of 2. Advantageously the wider band of frequencies permits holography. Reconfigurable resonant slots are resonant slots with variable loading conditions e.g. through the use of varactor diodes PIN diodes and the like to control the resonance frequency for swept frequency operation. In other words electrically loading the slots through the use of one or more additional active elements changes the resonant frequency of the slots in a predictable and well controlled manner. Shape reconfigurable slots have fixed sizes larger than may be needed and are loaded with multiple PIN diodes that are selectively activated to electronically change the slot dimensions and hence its frequency response i.e. narrow band vs. wide band operation . For example a shape reconfigurable slot of 1 cm in length may have an active element located every 1 mm. By loading the slot differently at different positions depending on which of the several elements are used to load the slot selected discrete or overlapping portions of the slot may be opened and closed. In an alternative embodiment the shape reconfigurable slots are constructed out of a highly spatial selective screen material such as a liquid crystal polymer LCP so that narrow band as well as wide band slots can be realized. This design is based on locally changing the effective permittivity of the LCP via electrical control. Independent and localized changes in permittivity of the LCP create the pixels i.e. slots that are used to sample the scattered field. Those skilled in the art are familiar with LCP materials which have electrical characteristics responsive to an applied voltage.

Referring again to processor decodes the signals obtained via array by receiver to generate the image of object and to generate control signals for modulating sensors . In one embodiment processor in the form of a computer interfaces with array via a data acquisition DAQ card and executes software to generate control signals including modulation signals. The DAQ card acquires the modulated sensor signals from pickup circuitry i.e. receiver and subsequently processes and decodes the signals in software. Each of the decoded signals is arranged according to its respective slot location for displaying on the computer s screen that is display .

Alternatively a high speed digital signal processor DSP which interfaces with an analog to digital converter and display embodies processor .

In yet another alternative embodiment processor comprises a custom made circuit such as a digital switching network made from discrete components or a field programmable gate array for generating the control signals. Each modulated sensor signal is decoded in hardware using analog or digital processing techniques. The processor acquires the decoded signal via a DAQ card or the like for processing the sampled measurements and generating the image for display.

One skilled in the art will recognize that various combinations of the integration schemes described above may be used to generate the control signals and decode the resulting modulated signals without deviating from the scope of the invention. System integration allows for a portable imaging system to be deployed. In addition one or more of the interfaces between the system components are wireless interfaces e.g. the signal can be acquired or displayed remotely .

Aside from the raw image of the electric field map over the retina area i.e. the area of array imaging system applies spatial and or temporal focusing techniques e.g. synthetic aperture focusing back propagation beam forming holographic techniques etc. known to those skilled in the art to obtain 2D and 3D profiles of the geometry shape and the dielectric properties of the imaged object .

Referring now to aspects of the invention enhance the performance of the imaging system to obtain higher resolution and or sensitivity and the like. For example array is scanned i.e. mechanically moved and or arranged with similar sensor arrays to obtain 3D maps of the scattered electric field. Alternatively array is displaced in two orthogonal directions to increase the number of samples obtained per wavelength. In other words imaging system includes means for providing translational movement of array generating the images of object at each position and processing these images to obtain an image with higher spatial resolution and fidelity.

The array of has a plurality of slots e.g. six slots are shown in for convenience . It is to be understood that array may include any number of slots . For example the positions of six slots of array are shown in undergoing one or more translational displacements. In the illustrated embodiment array is first shifted down across and then up with the previous position being indicated by broken lines. The horizontal displacement may be to the right or to the left. Performing the displacement image generation and signal processing actions quickly allows the imaging process to remain in real time. As an example the displacement is a half the sensors spacing.

Referring now to the modulated slots in one embodiment are sized and shaped to be linearly polarized. For example modulated slot as shown in has a generally longitudinal shape that passes a component of the scattered electric field in one direction but blocks components of the field in other directions. According to aspects of the invention measuring the scattered electric field at different polarizations increases the amount of geometrical and materials information revealed about the imaged object . Because polarization involves the spatial orientation of the electric field the imaging system can be designed to measure electric fields at its array or retina in several polarizations. The ability to measure different polarizations increases the amount of information revealed about the imaged object . For example sensors each comprise a linearly polarized modulated slot to measure a component of the electric field. Using linearly polarized modulated slots allows array to measure the scattered electric field in an orthogonal direction by rotating the retina 90 degrees about a central point as shown in from a vertical polarization to a horizontal polarization shown with broken lines . Again performing the rotation action quickly allows the imaging process to remain in real time. It is to be understood that the amount and direction of rotation may vary according to the implementation of imaging system .

Alternatively two sets of linearly polarized sensor elements arranged in the retina space allow measurements of two orthogonal electric field components sequentially or simultaneously . In this alternative embodiment the sensors in one set comprise slots oriented along a first direction and the sensors in the other set comprise slots oriented along a second direction that is orthogonal to the first direction. In yet another alternative embodiment sensors comprise dual polarized sensor elements with electrical control over the polarization for measuring two orthogonal electric field components sequentially or simultaneously .

In another embodiment array is scanned i.e. mechanically moved to obtain higher spatial resolution and or to increase the dimensions of irradiating area. For example array with the two sets of the sensors see 0038 or linear array can be translationaly moved near the object.

The general operation described above is independent of the source of illumination e.g. an antenna and depending on the source of electromagnetic field illumination different modes of operation are possible. Unlike the human eye s retina which only receives the light energy scattered from objects the sensor array or retina may be used for transmitting in addition to receiving microwave and or millimeter wave energy. The imaging system can be passive in the sense that it receives signals representative of an electric field generated by an independent source and scattered by object . In this passive mode an independent source produces the illuminating field so imaging system can obtain a spatial map of the scattered electric field. Generally this independent source is outside the retina spatial domain and not part of array . Similarly object itself emits electromagnetic radiation independently of imaging system . On the other hand in an active operational mode the source of the illuminating electric field is part of the imaging system . When operating in the active mode one or more sensors constitute a radiating source built within the retina region for illuminating object as array samples the scattered electric field. The active mode provides a wide breadth of use in many applications and promotes portability because different patterns corresponding to different locations and distributions may be generated. It is to be understood that the configuration of is merely exemplary and various configurations are contemplated within the scope of the invention. For example the target object may be positioned between an external electric field source and the array as shown in . In yet another alternative embodiment the electric field radiates from the array itself strikes object and then is scattered back toward array .

Referring again to receiver is capable of working as a transceiver receiver transmitter depending on the mode of operation active passive . For passive operation receiver works as receiver only listening only . In the active mode receiver also has an electric field source that provides the illuminating signal through an antenna or the like. In this instance receiver not only initiates the transmitted signal but also receives the signals from the array and puts them in a form suitable for further processing e.g. pre conditioning and down conversion by processor .

Referring now to sensors comprise modulated slot antennas in the illustrated embodiment. The receiver receives the sampled electric field via the slots . As an example receiver comprises a radio frequency RF circuit having one or more pickup antennas that combine the final signal. It is to be understood that receiver may be located away from array .

In imaging system embodies a microwave system wherein the modulated slots of array are cut into conducting screen . For example array has 30 slots arranged in a 6 by 5 pattern having a spacing of 2 where is the free space wavelength and operating at a frequency of 24 GHz K band .

Advantageously the array of utilizes high Q compact resonant slots that are loaded with fast switching active elements namely PIN diodes. This improves switching speed and modulation depth which are important parameters of an imaging system based on a rapid modulated scatterer technique MST . As an example the PIN diode switches in under 3 nS while the slot goes from a very low insertion loss 20 dB to a very high insertion loss 2 dB when the diode switches. This provides a large modulation depth with a relatively fast switching speed i.e. rapid field measurement . The large modulation depth and the fact that coherent averaging over several modulated periods is readily possible provides the system with a relatively high signal to noise ratio SNR .

In addition the slots of are efficient and exhibit very little mutual coupling. Although the longest dimension of slot is less than 3 in this embodiment it is resonated to work at the frequency of interest by special loading. Slot spacing of 2 ensures adequate sampling of the scattered electric field without sacrificing signal fidelity which is adversely affected by mutual coupling. The electric field scattered by the object to be imaged reaches the plane of array and the respective electric field at the particular location of each slot is coupled into that slot. Subsequently this signal is re radiated into the opposite side of the array .

Referring further to using the PIN diodes as active elements each slot is modulated at a certain modulation rate. In this manner the electric field due to each slot can be individually discriminated and measured. Modulation allows the field from object to be unambiguously determined over a planar region of interest. To pick up the modulated field from each slot the collector of receiver comprises a rectangular waveguide placed behind the screen that forms array and having a resonant slot at its aperture. This collector has the advantages of a very small insertion loss and a wide radiation pattern engulfing array within its main lobe. Having a single collector allows the use of a single RF front end without the use of complex microwave combiners. A combination of a relatively large retina i.e. planar array and a relatively small collector as shown in results in non uniform coupling coefficients between each array sensor i.e. slot and collector both in magnitude and phase. To correct for these coefficients they are measured by applying a uniform plane wave on the array . Because the measured field has a uniform magnitude and known phase distribution any variation from that norm is considered the sole effect of the array . Consequently any subsequent measurement is referenced to the uniform plane wave measurement. Finally the I Q detector measures the magnitude and phase of the received re radiated signal by each slot .

Referring further to an embodiment in which sensors comprise modulated slot antennas such as shown in the sensor elements comprise modulated slots cut into the conducting screen . is a top layer while is a bottom layer of array embodying aspects of the invention.

In the exemplary embodiment of array comprises a K band slot array manufactured according to standard photolithographic printed circuit board PCB manufacturing techniques on a Rogers4350 board of 0.020 0.5 mm thickness. The implementation of permits a through transmission configuration where array acts as a receiver in the far field region of a transmitting open ended K band rectangular waveguide. In this instance the waveguide provides the illuminating electric field. The distance between the waveguide or transmitter and the array is for example 80 mm. The electric field distribution due to the incident field radiated by the transmitting open ended waveguide is measured and used as a reference to correct for the distortion caused by array .

Imaging the target object in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of yields the exemplary images of . In particular show the magnitude dB and phase degrees respectively of the measured electric field scattered by a relatively small metallic sphere e.g. 4 mm in diameter at a distance of 5 mm from the array .

Referring further to processor in this embodiment up samples e.g. 20 times the field distributions and spatially interpolates the data to produce a more representative image of the electric field distribution than that directly obtained by the sensors i.e. a total of 30 pixels provided by the array of . The images are measured and processed in real time e.g. under 15 milliseconds . clearly shows an indication of the sphere as a low intensity region dark .

In an alternative embodiment receiver comprises a pickup network of combiners dividers and microstrip strip lines manufactured on a PCB as shown in . illustrates a top layer and illustrates a bottom layer of this alternative embodiment of imaging system . Relatively wide band slots fed by microstrip lines striplines can be modulated e.g. switched ON or OFF by providing a controlled RF connection to the pickup network of combiners dividers that route the signal to a single receiving point where the receiver is attached. The RF connection between each slot and the pickup network is controlled by a PIN diode mounted between the feeding line and the pickup network branch routed to the slot location. In this embodiment the feeding line is located behind the slot on the other side of the board. The field incident on slot is coupled to or decoupled from the pickup network by switching the PIN diode ON or OFF respectively.

Another feature of this implementation is the low profile and light weight array . Furthermore the coupled signal from each slot undergoes very small attenuation before it finally reaches the receiving point which results in a relatively high SNR. On board RF signal conditioning such as filtering and amplification can be incorporated within the same pickup network of receiver . For measurement diversity and averaging purposes multiple receiving points can be used as well.

To illustrate the potential of this design array comprises 30 slots 6 by 5 with spacing of 2 where is the free space wavelength and operating at a frequency of 24 GHz. The array of this embodiment is manufactured using the same technique and board material as described above. The array slots are etched on the top layer of the board as shown in . A 50 pickup network consisting of Wilkinson dividers microstrip lines and termination structures are etched on the bottom layer of the board as shown in . At the receiving port a side launch PCB RF connector for example provides a receiver connection and the PIN diodes are DC biased using an on board connector. As shown in three microstrip line branches each collect the signal coupled from 10 of the 30 slots . The slots and their feeding lines are arranged in duplets on each branch line and the duplet slots mirror each other with respect to the branch line in this embodiment.

Imaging the target object in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of yields the exemplary images of . In particular show the magnitude dB and phase degrees respectively of the measured electric field scattered by a relatively small metallic sphere e.g. 9 mm in diameter at a distance of 20 mm from the array . Operating in an active imaging mode the array illuminates the field of view with a microwave signal and receives and samples the scattered field at the same time. show the obtained magnitude and phase images respectively of the sphere. The same calibration and interpolation schemes described above may be used to produce these images.

Referring further to this embodiment comprises a microwave system in which a rectangular waveguide pickup embodies receiver . Here the array consists of the modulated slots cut into the broad or narrow walls of metallic dielectric waveguide sections combined to one or more pickup points. The waveguide sections may be connected via waveguide bends combiners. Advantageously the waveguide i.e. receiver provides for a low loss transmission line to collect and guide the signals. This feature allows for machining one waveguide into a single block tracing the area behind a large number of slots . The slots on the waveguide may be made wide band or resonant to increase the SNR.

Depending on the location of each slot with respect to the waveguide an array with horizontal along the waveguide and or vertical orthogonal to the waveguide polarization may be constructed. Furthermore since the broad dimension of a standard waveguide is larger than 2 two rows of slots may be placed within the waveguide.

To illustrate the potential of this technique a 24 GHz imaging system has an array of 30 sub resonant wideband slots . As shown in the slot size is for example 4 mm 1 mm. The small sub resonant slots in this embodiment allow for densely packing array without affecting the performance of the waveguide . On each slot active element namely a PIN diode is placed in the middle along the narrow side of the respective slot . Forward reverse biasing the PIN diode changes the impedance of the slots a phenomenon used to modulate the signal picked up through that slot. To pick up this modulated signal and route it to processor the receiver comprises rectangular waveguide machined into for example a block of aluminum in three rows connected by two bends in which two waveguide openings connect either receivers or a transmitter and a receiver depending on the operational mode. Each straight section of the waveguide houses two rows of slots which are staggered to reduce interaction between them. The array in this embodiment is built on a PCB using standard photolithographic technique. A PCB allows for easier placement of PIN diodes and feasible routing of DC bias lines . The PCB which contains the slot array sits on top of the waveguide . Increasing the modulation rate and subsequently match filtering utilizing inherent averaging of modulation increases the SNR of sub resonant slots.

A. Rapid electric field measurements for antenna pattern measurements specific absorption rate SAR measurements and radar cross section RCS measurements.

An imaging system embodying aspects of the invention comprises sensor array which has a plurality of modulated slots for detecting an electric field from object . The slots are positioned at locations corresponding to a defined spatial domain located remotely from object . Also the slots each provide an output signal representative of the electric field detected at the respective location of the slot. The imaging system further comprises a receiver operatively connected to array for receiving the output signals from the slots and processor configured to generate a multi dimensional profile representative of the object in the defined spatial domain based on the received output signals. Moreover imaging system includes display for displaying an image of the multi dimensional profile.

In another embodiment imaging system comprises a plurality of modulated slots formed in conductive surface at a plurality of locations. The locations correspond to a defined spatial domain located remotely from the object . The slots receiving and responsive to electromagnetic energy at a frequency greater than ultra high frequency detect an electric field from object and each provide an output signal representative of the electric field detected at the respective location of the slot. The imaging system further comprises receiver operatively connected to the slots for receiving the output signals representative of the electric field detected at the plurality of locations and processor configured to generate a multi dimensional profile representative of object in the defined spatial domain based on the received output signals.

Yet another embodiment relates to a method of generating a multi dimensional profile. The method comprises illuminating object with an electric field that includes electromagnetic energy having a frequency greater than ultra high frequency scattered by the object illuminated thereby. The method also includes sampling the scattered electric field at a plurality of locations via sensor array . The locations correspond to a defined spatial domain located remotely from object and the array includes modulated slot at each of the locations for detecting the scattered electric field. The slots each provide an output signal representative of the electric field detected at the respective location of the slot. The method further comprises receiving the output signals from the slots and generating a multi dimensional profile representative of the object in the defined spatial domain based on the received output signals.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

