---

title: Methods for updating WHOIS with information collected from non-controlling party
abstract: A Registering Entity or another entity may provide a framework for collecting WHOIS Business Information from a Non-Controlling Party of a domain name and entering it into WHOIS. The framework may include a website, webpage, web service, web resource, software, API, or another technological solution suitable for collecting WHOIS Business Information from Non-Controlling Party. The website, webpage, web service, or the web resource may be located at URL associated with a Controlling Party's domain name, e.g. an active or a parked page for the domain name. WHOIS Business Information will be typically available for viewing to everyone along with the traditional WHOIS information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08024428&OS=08024428&RS=08024428
owner: The Go Daddy Group, Inc.
number: 08024428
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080319
---
This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 051 712 INTERACTIVE DNS FOR CONTROLLING PARTY concurrently filed herewith and also assigned to The Go Daddy Group Inc.

This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 051 718 INTERACTIVE DNS FOR NON CONTROLLING PARTY concurrently filed herewith and also assigned to The Go Daddy Group Inc.

The Internet comprises a vast number of computers and computer networks that are interconnected through communication links. The interconnected computers exchange information using various services such as electronic mail and the World Wide Web WWW . The WWW service allows a server computer system i.e. web server or website to send textual and graphical webpages of information to a remote client computer system. The remote client computer system can then display the webpages. Each resource e.g. computer or webpage of the WWW is uniquely identifiable by a Uniform Resource Locator URL . To view a specific webpage a client computer system specifies the URL for the webpage in a request e.g. a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP request . These follow the familiar format http www.example.com uniquely identifying the particular resource. The request is forwarded to the web server that serves the webpage to the client computer system. When the client computer system receives the webpage it typically displays the webpage using a browser. A browser is a special purpose application program that requests and displays the webpages.

WHOIS is a TCP based Transmission Control Protocol transaction oriented query response protocol that is used to provide information services to Internet users. While originally used to provide white pages services and information about registered domain names current deployments cover a much broader range of information services. The protocol delivers its content in a human readable format. A sample WHOIS printout is shown in .

A WHOIS server listens on TCP port for requests from WHOIS clients. The WHOIS client makes a text request to the WHOIS server then the WHOIS server replies with text content. All requests are terminated with ASCII CR and then ASCII LF. The response might contain more than one line of text so the presence of ASCII CR or ASCII LF characters does not indicate the end of the response. The WHOIS server closes its connection as soon as the output is finished. The closed TCP connection is the indication to the client that the response has been received.

For historical reasons WHOIS lacks many of the modern protocol design attributes for example internationalization and strong security. The WHOIS protocol has no mechanism for indicating the character set in use. Originally the predominant text encoding in use was US ASCII. In practice some WHOIS servers particularly those outside the USA might be using some other character set either for requests replies or both. This inability to predict or express text encoding has adversely impacted the interoperability and therefore usefulness of the WHOIS protocol.

The WHOIS protocol has no provisions for strong security. WHOIS lacks mechanisms for access control integrity and confidentiality. Accordingly WHOIS based services are used for information which is non sensitive and intended to be accessible to everyone.

The domain name system DNS is the world s largest distributed computing system that enables access to any resource in the Internet by translating user friendly domain names to IP Addresses. The process of translating domain names to IP Addresses is called Name Resolution. A DNS name resolution is the first step in the majority of Internet transactions. The DNS is in fact a client server system that provides this name resolution service through a family of servers called Domain Name Servers. The hierarchical domain space is divided into administrative units called zones. A zone usually consists of a domain say example.com and possibly one or more sub domains projects.example.com services.example.com . The authoritative data needed for performing the name resolution service is contained in a file called the zone file and the DNS servers hosting this file are called the authoritative name servers for that zone. The DNS clients that make use of the services provided by authoritative name servers may be of two types. One type is called a stub resolver that formulates and sends a query every time it receives a request from an application that requires Internet service e.g. a browser . The other type is called a caching also called recursive resolving name server that caches the name resolution responses it has obtained from the authoritative name servers and is thus able to serve multiple stub resolvers.

The zone file hosted on an authoritative name server consists of various types of records called Resource Records RRs . A type RRtype is associated with each DNS resource record. The code for these RRtypes is assigned by an international organization called Internet Assigned Names Authority IANA . An RR of a given RRtype in a zone file provides a specific type of information. Some of the common RRtype codes are NS MX CNAME and A. An NS RR in a zone file gives the fully qualified domain name FQDN of the host that is considered the name server for that zone. For example an NS RR in the zone file of the zone example.com may give the information that the host ns1.projects.example.com is a name server for the domain projects.example.com. Similarly an MX RR gives the host name for a mail server for the zone. An A RR gives the IP address for a host in a domain within the zone. CNAME provides canonical name records and mapping of names in the zone file. A zone file generally consists of multiple RRs of a given RRtype with some exceptions e.g. there can be only SOA RR in a zone file . It can also have multiple RRs for the same domain name and same or different RRtype e.g. multiple name servers or mail servers for a domain services.example.com . A sample DNS zone file printout is shown in .

The DNS infrastructure consists of many different types of DNS servers DNS clients and transactions between these entities. The most important transaction in DNS is the one that provides the core service of DNS i.e. name resolution service and is called the DNS Query Response. A DNS Query Response transaction is made up of a query originating from a DNS client generically called a DNS resolver and response from a DNS name server. The response consists of one or more RRs. These RRs may be served from its own zone file for an authoritative name server or from a cache of RRs obtained from other name servers for a caching resolving recursive name servers . In this way the DNS serves as a global distributed database. Name servers serving zone files each contain a small portion of the global domain space and clients issue queries using a domain name and a desired RRtype.

Referring to a Controlling Party and a Non Controlling Party may have a read only or read and write access to the WHOIS records for reading or entering a WHOIS Business Information. The Controlling Party is an individual an organization or another entity that has control over a domain name and subsequently the WHOIS records for the domain name. The Controlling Party is typically an owner a Registrant an administrator or a record holder for the domain name or an entity otherwise responsible for maintaining the domain name. The Non Controlling Party is an individual an organization or another entity that does not have control over the domain name and the WHOIS records . The WHOIS records are maintained by a Registering Entity such as a Registry a Registrar or a Reseller of a Registry or a Registrar.

The WHOIS Business Information is information currently not present in the WHOIS records. The WHOIS Business Information does not include information used for technical operation of the domain name resolution of the domain name through domain servers registry status of the domain name reputation information nor Registrant s administrative technical and or billing contact information. The WHOIS Business Information may include comments posted by the Controlling Party and the Non Controlling Party see in products for sale see in or any other information discussion etc. not currently saved in the WHOIS.

Referring to the Registering Entity or another entity may provide a framework for collecting the WHOIS Business Information from the Controlling Party and entering it into the WHOIS step . The framework may include a website a webpage a web service a web resource a software an API application programming interface or another technological solution suitable for collecting the WHOIS Business Information from the Controlling Party . The website webpage web service or the web resource may be located at a URL associated with the Controlling Party s domain name at a URL associated with the Registering Entity at a URL showing WHOIS information for the domain name at a URL showing DNS information for the domain name at a URL showing business registration information for the domain name etc. The webpage may be a static page a dynamic page an active page or a parked page for the domain name. The framework does not include control panels that are used for entering traditional information into the WHOIS. The WHOIS Business Information may be collected from the Controlling Party step and entered into the WHOIS step . The WHOIS Business Information will be typically available for viewing to everyone along with the traditional WHOIS information.

Referring to the Registering Entity or another entity may provide a framework for collecting the WHOIS Business Information from the Non Controlling Party and entering it into the WHOIS step . The framework may include a website a webpage a web service a web resource a software an API application programming interface or another technological solution suitable for collecting the WHOIS Business Information from the Non Controlling Party . The website webpage web service or the web resource may be located at a URL associated with the Controlling Party s domain name at a URL associated with the Registering Entity at a URL showing WHOIS information for the domain name at a URL showing DNS information for the domain name at a URL showing business registration information for the domain name etc. The webpage may be a static page a dynamic page an active page or a parked page for the domain name. The framework does not include control panels that are used for entering traditional information into the WHOIS. The WHOIS Business Information may be collected from the Non Controlling Party step and entered into the WHOIS step . The WHOIS Business Information will be typically available for viewing to everyone along with the traditional WHOIS information.

For example the Non Controlling Party may ask How much is this domain name and the Controlling Party may reply This domain is not for sale. See in . The WHOIS Business Information may be saved in the WHOIS as text as character separated delimited text as fixed width columns text as markup language formatted text or in any other form. The markup language formatted text may include HTML XML or any other markup language. The Registering Entity may impose further limitations on which tags can be used in the markup language e.g. scripts can be prohibited. Additionally a link an image a banner or any other multimedia information may be saved into the WHOIS. Involved parties may also participate in a link exchange and or a banner exchange.

Referring to a Controlling Party and a Non Controlling Party may have a read only or read and write access to the DNS records for reading or entering a DNS Business Information. The Controlling Party is an individual an organization or another entity that has control over a domain name and subsequently the DNS records for the domain name. The Controlling Party is typically an owner a Registrant an administrator or a record holder for the domain name or a website associated with the domain name or an entity otherwise responsible for maintaining the domain name or the website. The Non Controlling Party is an individual an organization or another entity that does not have control over the domain name and the DNS records . The DNS records are maintained by a Hosting Entity such as a Registry a Registrar a Hosting Company or a Reseller of a Registry a Registrar or a Hosting Company. The Hosting Entity typically hosts a website a webpage an email address a DNS record or another network related service resource or document or plurality thereof associated with the domain name.

The DNS Business Information is information currently not present in the DNS records. The DNS Business Information does not include information used for technical operation of the domain name resolution of the domain name through domain servers nor reputation information. The DNS Business Information may include information about the business hours of operation see in maps and directions products for sale comments posted by the Controlling Party and the Non Controlling Party see and in or any other information discussion etc. not currently saved in the DNS.

Referring to the Hosting Entity or another entity may provide a framework for collecting the DNS Business Information from the Controlling Party and entering it into the DNS step . The framework may include a website a webpage a web service a web resource a software an API application programming interface or another technological solution suitable for collecting the DNS Business Information from the Controlling Party . The website webpage web service or the web resource may be located at a URL associated with the Controlling Party s domain name at a URL associated with the Hosting Entity at a URL showing WHOIS information for the domain name at a URL showing DNS information for the domain name at a URL showing business registration information for the domain name etc. The webpage may be a static page a dynamic page an active page or a parked page for the domain name. The framework does not include control panels that are used for entering traditional information into the DNS. The DNS Business Information may be collected from the Controlling Party step and entered into the DNS step . The DNS Business Information will be typically available for viewing to everyone along with the traditional DNS information.

Referring to the Hosting Entity or another entity may provide a framework for collecting the DNS Business Information from the Non Controlling Party and entering it into the DNS step . The framework may include a website a webpage a web service a web resource a software an API application programming interface or another technological solution suitable for collecting the DNS Business Information from the Non Controlling Party . The website webpage web service or the web resource may be located at a URL associated with the Controlling Party s domain name at a URL associated with the Hosting Entity at a URL showing WHOIS information for the domain name at a URL showing DNS information for the domain name at a URL showing business registration information for the domain name etc. The webpage may be a static page a dynamic page an active page or a parked page for the domain name. The framework does not include control panels that are used for entering traditional information into the DNS. The DNS Business Information may be collected from the Non Controlling Party step and entered into the DNS step . The DNS Business Information will be typically available for viewing to everyone along with the traditional DNS information.

For example the Controlling Party may post a comment This Domain is for sale. Price 350. See in . The Non Controlling Party may ask Who should I contact about the purchase of this domain See in . The DNS Business Information may be saved in TXT field in the DNS records or any other field. The DNS Business Information may be saved in the DNS as text as character separated delimited text as fixed width columns text as markup language formatted text or in any other form. The markup language formatted text may include HTML XML or any other markup language. The Hosting Entity may impose further limitations on which tags can be used in the markup language e.g. scripts can be prohibited. Additionally a link an image a banner or any other multimedia information may be saved into the DNS. Involved parties may also participate in a link exchange and or a banner exchange.

Additional information on DNS and its records may be found at Mockapetris RFC 1035 Domain Names Implementation and Specification November 1987 and Rosenbaum RFC 1464 Using the Domain Name System To Store Arbitrary String Attributes May 1993 which are both hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

In an alternative embodiment one or more records posted in WHOIS and DNS may be private and therefore available only to the Controlling Party or one or more selected Non Controlling Parties.

Referring to access to the WHOIS and the DNS by the Controlling Party and the Non Controlling Party is performed via a Network such as the Internet. Often technological means used by the Controlling Party and the Non Controlling Party to access the WHOIS and the DNS don t connect to the Registering Entity and the Hosting Entity directly but rather use standardized network protocols for access and data exchange.

Further the elements from the above described systems may be combined in a single system and the steps from the above described methods may be combined in a single method. The methods described above can be performed manually partially automated or fully automated.

The above described embodiments have been provided by way of example and the present invention is not limited to these examples. Multiple variations and modification to the disclosed embodiments will occur to the extent not mutually exclusive to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the foregoing description. Such variations and modifications however fall well within the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and is in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present invention or any of its embodiments.

