---

title: System and method for providing social context to digital activity
abstract: The system and method for providing social context to digital activity combines mobile device contact information with user-provided website information to aid users when browsing the Internet. Users of mobile devices define identifications of themselves for websites, so that when another user in their contact list is browsing the Internet, an indicator is able to indicate that he is a known contact. The determination of whether the person is a known contact based on the identification definitions is able to be implemented either by direct interfacing between the host website and a server which stores the identification definitions, a browser plugin which communicates with the server or an API provided by the server or a mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08181111&OS=08181111&RS=08181111
owner: Synchronoss Technologies, Inc.
number: 08181111
owner_city: Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081231
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 009 776 filed Dec. 31 2007 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING SOCIAL CONTEXT TO DIGITAL ACTIVITY which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates to the field of computing. More specifically the present invention relates to the field of utilizing mobile device contact information with Internet application usernames.

There are many websites nowadays that allow user postings either to sell products make comments provide reviews or for a number of other reasons. However when other users review these postings it is difficult to determine if the poster is trustworthy. Furthermore the poster might even be a close friend but if the user is unaware that the friend goes by a certain user name the user will view that poster as simply another random poster.

For example if a user comments on a movie review website and rates the movie a D that may be some help to other users but maybe the person simply does not like a specific actor in the movie or some other aspect that is not highly relevant in other users decisions about the quality of the movie. However usually friends have similar tastes in movies and therefore it would be helpful to know that the review is someone the user knows. Since users tend to have different usernames for different sites it is not necessarily simple to just remember usernames for each of a person s acquaintances since people are able to use different user names for each website and there are a plethora of websites available online.

The system and method for providing social context to digital activity combines mobile device contact information with user provided website information to aid users when browsing the Internet. Users of mobile devices define identifications of themselves for websites so that when another user in their contact list is browsing the Internet an indicator is able to indicate that he is a known contact. The determination of whether the person is a known contact based on the identification definitions is able to be implemented either by direct interfacing between the host website and a server which stores the identification definitions a browser plugin which communicates with the server or an API provided by the server or a mobile device.

In one aspect a method of indicating a relationship on a computing device comprises communicating with a server device and presenting an indicator on a website in a browser if a match exists between a website username and a contact username stored on the server device. A browser plugin is configured for communicating with the server device. A host website server is configured for communicating with the server device. The indicator is selected from the group consisting of an asterisk a different font type a different font size underlining highlighting an icon and a sound. The indicator is presented when a mouse hovers over at least one of the following the website username an item related to the website username and a hyperlink related to the website username. The method further comprises determining a current user of the computing device. The contact username is a direct contact of the current user or the contact username is an indirect contact of the current user or the contact username is in a chain of direct contacts of the current user. The computing device is selected from the group consisting of a personal computer laptop computer computer workstation a server mainframe computer handheld computer personal digital assistant cellular mobile telephone smart appliance and gaming console. Each contact username is associated with a webpage name on the server device. Communicating with the server device is through an application programming interface.

In another aspect a method of associating one or more non mobile identities with a mobile identity on a mobile device comprises manipulating one or more identification definitions and saving the one or more identification definitions. The method further comprises mining the Internet for the identification definitions. Manipulating includes one or more of adding editing and deleting. Each of the one or more identification definitions include a website and a username corresponding to the website. The website is selected from one of automatically generated retrieved from a source and user generated. The one or more identification definitions are saved on at least one of a server device and a mobile device. The identification definitions are manipulated using at least one of touch screen mobile phone buttons a keyboard and a mouse.

In another aspect a method of providing social context to digital activity comprises generating a set of contact information on a first computing device the set of contact information stored on a server device generating a set of identification definitions on a second computing device the set of identification definitions stored on the server device with a relationship with the set of contact information communicating a website username to the server device from a third computing device and presenting an indicator on a website on a browser on the third computing device if a match exists between the website username and a contact username for a website in the set of identification definitions on the server device. The set of contact information includes at least one of a home phone number a mobile phone number a work phone number and an email address. Communicating includes determining a current user of the third computing device. The contact username is a direct contact of the current user or the contact username is an indirect contact of the current user or the contact username is in a chain of direct contacts of the current user. The first computing device the second computing device and the third computing device are selected from the group consisting of a personal computer laptop computer computer workstation a server mainframe computer handheld computer personal digital assistant cellular mobile telephone smart appliance and gaming console. The contact information is manipulated using at least one of touch screen mobile phone buttons a keyboard and a mouse. The identification definitions are manipulated using at least one of touch screen mobile phone buttons a keyboard and a mouse.

In another aspect a system for providing social context to digital activity comprises a server device a first computing device for manipulating a set of contact information the set of contact information stored on the server device a second computing device for manipulating a set of identification definitions each including a website address and a contact username the set of identification definitions stored on the server device with a relationship to the set of contact information and a third computing device for browsing a website by a current user wherein an indicator is presented on the website if a match exists between a website username and the contact username for the website address for the current user in the set of identification definitions on the server device. The set of contact information includes at least one of a home phone number a mobile phone number a work phone number and an email address. The website address is selected from one of automatically generated retrieved from a source and user generated. The first computing device the second computing device and the third computing device are selected from the group consisting of a personal computer laptop computer computer workstation a server mainframe computer handheld computer personal digital assistant cellular mobile telephone smart appliance and gaming console. The contact information is manipulated using at least one of touch screen mobile phone buttons a keyboard and a mouse. The identification definitions are manipulated using at least one of touch screen mobile phone buttons a keyboard and a mouse. The contact username is a direct contact of the current user or the contact username is an indirect contact of the current user or the contact username is in a chain of direct contacts of the current user.

In another aspect a computing device comprises a memory for storing an application the application configured for generating a set of identification definitions and organizing the set of identification definitions and a processing component coupled to the memory the processing component configured for processing the application. The set of identification definitions each include a website and a contact username corresponding to the website. The computing device is a mobile device. The application is configured for storing the set of identification definitions and sending the identification definitions to a server device.

In another aspect a computing device comprises a memory for storing an application the application configured for communicating with a server device to determine if a match exists between a website username and a contact username for a website address for a current user in a set of identification definitions on the server device and presenting an indicator for the match on a website and a processing component coupled to the memory the processing component configured for processing the application. The application determines a current user. The application is a browser plugin. Communicating with the server device is through an application programming interface.

In another aspect a server device comprises a memory for storing an application the application configured for storing contact information and identification definitions in a database and determining if a match exists between a website username and a contact username for a website for a current user in the identification definitions and a processing component coupled to the memory the processing component configured for processing the application. The contact information includes at least one of a home phone number a mobile phone number a work phone number and an email address. The application determines the current user. The application sends a response to a computing device to indicate the match exists.

To enhance user experiences on the Internet relationships generated for mobile devices are able to be applied on the Internet. As is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 128 121 filed on May 12 2005 and entitled ADVANCED CONTACT IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM which is hereby incorporated by reference users are able to add contact information into their mobile device for friends family co workers and so on. Users are also able to store information definitions about themselves on their mobile device such as usernames for websites such as eBay Facebook Yelp and many other websites. The contact information and identification definitions are able to be further stored or backed up on a server. In some embodiments a user is able to update his profile and a server manages all of the information with an address book.

By combining what is shown and discussed in and the contacts information and the identification definitions are stored on a server device in an organized manner so that relationships are easily recognized such as within a relational database. For example if Alice has the contacts shown in and each of the contacts has defined identification definitions similar to those shown in the server device stores the information so that when Alice is browsing websites the information in her contacts list and the information in each contact s definitions list is conveniently organized. Moreover in some embodiments additional linking or relationships are involved so that contacts of contacts also referred to as indirect contacts or a chain sequence series of direct contacts are related e.g. a friend of a friend . Any number of relationships are possible. One and two levels of relationships have been described but three or more levels of relationships chains of contacts are able to be included in some embodiments. The chain sequence series of contacts is able to include direct contacts and or indirect contacts. In some embodiments the number of relationships are configurable and in some embodiments the number of relationships are static. In some embodiments the number of relationships are configurable by an administrator of a system and in some embodiments the number of relationships are configurable by a specific user. For example if one user only wants one level of relationships while another user prefers three levels of relationships in some embodiments those users are able to configure their relationship setup as desired. The relationships are able to be generated and organized in any number of ways utilizing the appropriate hardware and software. Using the information and relationships stored in the server device social context is then able to be provided to digital activity as is shown in .

In some embodiments the indicator is implemented by the host website interfacing with a server which contains all of the contact information including the identification definitions. The host website includes code to present the indicator .

In some embodiments the indicator is implemented by a browser extension or plugin which is able to be visible or hidden. The plugin communicates with the server containing all of the contact information including the identification definitions and then annotates the page correctly.

Examples of suitable computing devices include a personal computer laptop computer computer workstation a server mainframe computer handheld computer personal digital assistant cellular mobile telephone smart appliance gaming console or any other suitable computing device.

For example eBay is provided an interface to the server device which contains the identification definitions. Then eBay adds code into its website pages which operate according to the interface to query the identification definitions based on the current user of an Internet browser and the usernames on the website. If matches are found based on the usernames of the website and the usernames of the contacts of the current user then those matches are highlighted in some manner using added code in eBay s website pages.

In some embodiments an Application Programming Interface API is implemented so that other developers are able to interface with a server side social context system. As described above in some embodiments an interface is supplied to a host website so that the host website is able to couple to and or communicate with a server device or specifically a social context system on the server device. In some embodiments the description of the API is publicly available so that any web host is able to couple their site with the server side social context system to be able to provide the social context to their site as described herein. With the description of the API publicly available users will know what values to input and what values are output when communicating with the API.

For example a user downloads and installs a browser plugin to his personal computer. The user then navigates using his browser to eBay s website where the user is searching for a toaster. After using eBay s search an auction list is provided which includes usernames for each of the sellers on the website. The browser plugin automatically queries the server device and determines if any of the usernames on the website are found on the server device in the identification definitions for the contacts of the current user. If matches are found based on the usernames of the website and the usernames of the contacts of the current user then those matches are highlighted in a way using the plugin such as to overlay an asterisk near the username on the website.

To utilize the system and method for providing social context to digital activity users generate contact lists for their mobile devices. Additionally each contact generates identification definitions which include usernames corresponding to websites. The order of these steps is not important. Then when a user is navigating the Internet if a username of a contact of the current browser is found that username is indicated as someone known by the current browser. In some embodiments a plugin is downloaded to communicate with a server to compare usernames with the identification definitions. In some embodiments the interfacing is performed directly by the host website and the server. In some embodiments another method is used to determine if the usernames match the identification definitions.

In operation instead of users simply reading and believing reviews from people where the reader has no idea if the reviewers have any common interests with them indicators are able to be used to indicate that the reviewer is in the contacts list of the reader s mobile device. Users interests that are able to be found in profiles at various websites are also able to be incorporated in the intelligence of the system. This provides better confidence in the readers that the reviews they are basing their decisions on are relevant to their own interests. For example if a person looks on Yahoo Movies to determine if a new movie is worth seeing the fact that most people have rated the movie an A is not necessarily a helpful indicator as to whether or not this specific person will also like the movie. Rather the person s contacts such as family friends and co workers likely have similar tastes or at least the person knows the tastes of the contacts thus it is helpful to know that some of the reviewers are known contacts. To provide the indicators either a web host communicates with the server where the identification definitions are stored or a browser plugin is used to communicate with the server.

In some embodiments a purchase history of a user is also stored and used for reference. The purchase history is able to keep track of the list of items bought by a user at various different web sites or catalogs. Then when another user is browsing the web that user is able to be informed that one of his friends bought this item or one of the people in his network bought this item. A contact to interests or tastes metadata is maintained and derived based on the purchase history. In some embodiments if multiple contacts have purchased or recommended an item the multiple purchases recommendations are indicated. For example a number is able to be displayed next to the item indicating the number of purchases or a list of names are displayed. Other indicators are able to be used to indicate a different number of purchases.

In some embodiments all of the stored information is synchronized so that the data is fresh or live and there are no incorrect associations. For example if a user deletes a contact from his contacts list that association is deleted or shown differently in any system storing or using the association.

In some embodiments the system and method of providing social context to digital activity is implemented on top of a synchronization system such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 671 757 6 694 336 or 6 757 696 which are all incorporated by reference.

The present invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments incorporating details to facilitate the understanding of principles of construction and operation of the invention. Such reference herein to specific embodiments and details thereof is not intended to limit the scope of the claims appended hereto. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that other various modifications may be made in the embodiment chosen for illustration without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

