---

title: Method for fabricating butt-coupled electro-absorptive modulators
abstract: A method for fabricating butt-coupled electro-absorptive modulators is disclosed. A butt-coupled electro-absorptive modulator with minimal dislocations in the electro-absorptive material is produced by adding a dielectric spacer for lining the coupling region before epitaxially growing the SiGe or other electro-absorptive material. It has been determined that during the SiGe growth, the current process has exposed single crystal silicon at the bottom of the hole and exposed amorphous silicon on the sides. SiGe growth on the amorphous silicon is expected to have more dislocations than single crystal silicon. There should also be dislocations or fissures where the SiGe growth from the each nucleation source finally join. Thus, a dielectric sidewall can protect an exposed waveguide face from any etching from an aggressive surface preparation prior to epi growth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08871554&OS=08871554&RS=08871554
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08871554
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
The present invention was made with United States Government assistance under Contract No. HR0011 05 C 0027 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The United States Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 365 to the previously filed international patent application number PCT US08 74800 filed on Aug. 29 2008 assigned to the assignee of the present application and having a priority date of Oct. 30 2007 based upon U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 001 161. The contents of both applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to optical modulators in general and in particular to a method for fabricating butt coupled electro absorptive modulators.

Silicon based modulators are commonly employed in photonic integrated circuits. However the indirect bandgap of silicon can prevent any electric field induced light modulation. Thus devices having germanium grown on silicon wafers are becoming more popular because of the relatively small difference between the indirect and direct bandgaps of germanium which can overcome some of the difficulties stemmed from silicon based devices.

Proper device design and fabrication are very important in forming efficient germanium silicon based modulators because there are many challenges in making workable germanium silicon based modulators. Ideally germanium silicon based electro absorptive modulators should have the lowest possible loss at a voltage off state with the highest possible extinction ratio at a voltage on state. Because germanium silicon based electro absorptive modulators inevitably have transmission loss due to the absorption of indirect band gap the length of germanium silicon active region has to be very short typically less than 150 m in order to achieve low insertion loss at the voltage off state. Therefore it has to be coupled to a low loss waveguide such as a silicon waveguide for on chip applications. Since germanium silicon based material system has a relatively high index contrast and its single mode dimension is very small the single mode cut off dimension is less than 1 m it is a big challenge to achieve an efficient waveguide modulator coupling. Another problem is that standard reactive ion etching RIE of germanium silicon based material usually results in rough sidewalls that increases the scattering loss in the germanium silicon based electro absorptive modulator.

Consequently it would be desirable to provide an improved method for fabricating germanium silicon based electro absorptive modulators.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a doped semiconductor layer is initially formed on a substrate. A first cladding layer is deposited on the doped semiconductor layer. A waveguide layer is then deposited and patterned to form waveguides. A second cladding layer is deposited on the waveguides. At least one trench is formed by etching through the second cladding layer the waveguide layer and the first cladding layer to expose the doped semiconductor layer. A film spacer layer is subsequently deposited on top of the trench. The film spacer layer is etched to form respective sidewalls within the trench. Finally an electro absorptive modulator is formed within the trench such that the electro absorptive modulator is butt coupled to the waveguides via the sidewalls.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is illustrated a high level block diagram of a germanium silicon based electro absorptive optical modulator. As shown an optical modulator includes an input waveguide an output waveguide and a modulator waveguide . Modulator waveguide provides active light modulation between input waveguide and output waveguide . Input waveguide and output waveguide are silicon Si waveguides. Modulator waveguide can be made of germanium Ge or germanium silicon GeSi . The composition of the GeSi material is chosen such that the relative change in the absorption coefficient at a voltage on state compared to a voltage off state is maximized around the operating wavelength. The voltage off state of modulator waveguide structure is operated at a relatively low absorption regime of the GeSi material and the length of modulator waveguide is less than the order of 150 m so as to keep a low absorption loss at a voltage off state. The voltage on state is operated with a high electric field applied on the GeSi material to change its absorption coefficient in order to generate enough extinction ratio for light modulation at an voltage on state.

With reference now to there is illustrated a detailed diagram of optical modulator from in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Optical modulator includes a bottom Si substrate an oxide insulator layer and a silicon layer . Optical modulator also includes modulator waveguide a polysilicon layer on top of modulator waveguide input waveguide and output waveguide that are butt coupled to modulator waveguide structure via sidewalls and SiOblocks and . The thickness of oxide insulator layer is approximately 2 m but it can be adjusted to other thicknesses as long as the light in waveguides and does not leak to Si substrate .

Input waveguide and output waveguide are Si waveguides in the present embodiment however they can also be SiONor SiNwaveguides. SiOblocks can also be substituted by other dielectric materials such as SiONor SiN as long as the refractive indexes of the materials in blocks are smaller than the core material of input and output waveguides and .

In addition the same inventive optoelectronic device can also be used as a butt coupled GeSi detector structure. The only difference is that the Si GeSi Si p i n diode waveguide structure in the photodetector device is usually longer than that in the modulator device in order to increase light absorption. At reverse bias the electrons and holes excited by the absorbed photons are accelerated by the electric field applied on the GeSi layer through the Si GeSi Si p i n diode waveguide structure and are collected by the electrodes. As such optical signals are transformed into electrical signals for further processing in an electronic integrated circuit.

Referring now to there are illustrated successive steps of a method for fabricating optical modulators such as optical modulator from on a silicon on insulator SOI wafer in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Initially a SOI wafer is provided with the top Si layer doped p or n type as shown in . Si mesas are then formed by patterning the top Si layer on the SiOinsulator layer as depicted in . An oxide layer is deposited on top of the structure and planarized by a chemical mechanical polishing CMP process as shown in

Next a Si waveguide layer is deposited and patterned the patterning is into the page and is not shown . A SiOlayer is then deposited on top to form the upper cladding of Si waveguide followed by a CMP planarization as depicted in

Trenches are subsequently etched into the structure to expose the tops of the Si mesas as shown in . A spacer film layer of dielectric is deposited on top of the structure as depicted in . The dielectric can be SiONor SiN. Spacer film layer is then etched back to form sidewalls and as shown in

Optionally in order to reduce deleterious effects caused by the trench etch shown in a dry etch is utilized to create a trench but an approximately 500 thick of oxide is left above the bottom silicon. Then the spacer film deposition and etching are performed followed by an HF dip. This technique requires good depth control from the etch process.

Alternatively oxide layer is planarized as shown in except less oxide approximately 100 500 is left on top of the first patterned Si layer. A thin layer of nitride or other material approximately 100 300 thick that etches slower than oxide in HE is deposited. More oxide is deposited to get the net desired thickness above the first patterned Si layer. Waveguide layer are deposited and patterned and SiOlayer is deposited. Trenches are etched and stop on the underlying nitride. After the spacer deposition has been completed spacer etch is performed to remove both the spacer nitride and the added nitride layer in the bottom of the hole. After the completion of a wet etch Ge growth can be performed.

GeSi material is selectively grown into the trenches to form respective modulators and the top is planarized by CMP. A silicon layer with opposite type of doping to the Si mesas underneath GeSi waveguide structures is further deposited and patterned on top of the structure as depicted in . Metal electrodes not shown can be used to contact the doped silicon regions on tops and bottoms of the GeSi waveguide structures. As such monolithic integration of waveguides and GeSi modulators can be achieved.

As has been described the present invention provides an improved method for fabricating butt coupled GeSi based electro absorptive modulators. The advantage of the added spacers or sidewalls is to prevent Ge defects that can create leakage and noise in the modulators. Ge defects seems or fissures are created when the Ge growth protrudes from the ends of the top waveguide as well as from the bottom Si surface. The spacers or sidewalls can prevent defects by inhibiting Ge growth from the ends of the top waveguides.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

