---

title: Bore-sight alignment device
abstract: An alignment mount is provided for adjusting elevation and azimuth between first and second axes for two respective devices attached thereto. The axes are substantially parallel to an axial direction and substantially perpendicular to lateral and vertical directions. These directions form a pitch plane by said axial and vertical directions, a yaw plane by said axial and lateral directions and a roll plane by said lateral and vertical directions. The mount is detachably disposable to first and second devices corresponding to the first and second axes. The mount includes first and second platforms respectively attachable to the first and second devices, an elevation block, an elevation screw, an elevation cam, an azimuth screw and an azimuth cam. The first platform includes a first slot that extends substantially in the yaw plane. The second platform includes a first bore and a first channel extending in tandem substantially in the axial direction. The elevation screw is rotatable within the first bore in the roll plane. The elevation block is insertable into the first channel and includes a second bore, a second channel and a second slot. The second bore and the second channel extend substantially in the axial direction. The azimuth screw is rotatable within the second bore in the roll plane. The second slot extends substantially in the pitch plane. The elevation cam translates within said first channel to engage with the second slot to rotate one end of the elevation block in the pitch plane in response to turning of the elevation screw. The elevation block and first platform can be pinned together at an opposite end to the first end. The first platform can include a Picatinny rail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07647720&OS=07647720&RS=07647720
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07647720
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081208
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to adjusting bore sight alignment of a weapon. In particular the invention relates to fine tuned elevation and azimuth adjustment of coupled hand held assembly of rifle and gun sight.

Targeting hardware such as an optical gun sight or other line of sight aiming device that attaches to a rail mount e.g. Picatinny rail often must be aligned to the barrel bore sight of the rifle connected to the rail. Conventionally this has been accomplished by adjusting the reticule of the viewing optics or adjusting hardware within the attached system.

In some applications shims are installed between components followed by tightening a bolt between components. This conventional process can be very time consuming due to the iterative nature of interdependent adjustment. Also tightening the bolt after inserting shims can change the adjusted direction to which the assembly points after alignment necessitating further correction.

Conventional bore sight alignment equipment yields disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide independent elevation and azimuth adjustments by an integrated mount.

Various exemplary embodiments provide an alignment mount for adjusting elevation and azimuth between first and second axes for two respective devices attached thereto. The axes are substantially parallel to an axial direction and substantially perpendicular to lateral and vertical directions. These directions form a pitch plane by said axial and vertical directions a yaw plane by said axial and lateral directions and a roll plane by said lateral and vertical directions. The mount is detachably disposable to first and second devices corresponding to the first and second axes.

The mount includes first and second platforms respectively attachable to the first and second devices an elevation block an elevation screw an elevation cam an azimuth screw and an azimuth cam. The first platform includes a first vertical slot that extends substantially in the yaw plane. The second platform includes a first bore and a first channel extending in tandem substantially in the axial direction. The elevation screw is rotatable within the first bore in the roll plane.

The elevation block is insertable into the first channel and includes a second bore a second channel and a second horizontal slot. The second bore and the second channel extend substantially in the axial direction. The azimuth screw is rotatable within the second bore in the roll plane. The second slot extends substantially in the pitch plane. The elevation cam translates within said first channel to engage with the second slot to rotate one end of the elevation block in the pitch plane in response to turning of the elevation screw.

In various exemplary embodiments the elevation block and first platform can be pinned together at an opposite end to the first end. In preferred embodiments the first platform can include a Picatinny rail.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

An elevation block is disposed longitudinally between the Picatinny rail and the housing . A second longitudinal azimuth bore extends within the block . To mount the assembly to another platform e.g. an optical gun sight not shown the base includes vertically oriented orifices for bolts to pass therethrough.

For purposes of orientation the view displays a local geometry compass rose to depict orthogonal Cartesian axes in the axial aft facing the operator lateral starboard and vertical upward directions. These three directions form perpendicular surface planes corresponding to alignment adjustment the axial and lateral axes form a yaw plane the axial and vertical axes form a pitch plane and the lateral and vertical axes form a roll plane. The pitch plane corresponds to elevation changes. The yaw and roll planes correspond to azimuth changes.

An elevation lead cam is shown between the elevation block and the housing . An elevation lead screw disposed forward of the elevation block inserts into the first longitudinal bore . An azimuth lead cam is shown between the cam block and the elevation block . An azimuth lead screw disposed forward of the elevation block inserts into the second longitudinal bore .

A retaining ring secures the pivot shaft in the elevation block . The pivot shaft secures the forward ends of the rail and the elevation block disposed between the cam and the elevation block . Elevation and azimuth pins disposed between the cam and the ring insert into corresponding slots of the elevation block . A lock pin secures the pivot shaft and the Picatinny rail . The retaining pin vertically secures the end of the rail to the elevation block while allowing horizontal motion.

A lateral divide orifice locks the elevation lead screw from backing out from the first longitudinal bore . The mounting block aligns to a second longitudinal axis such as corresponding to an optical sight attached thereto. The second longitudinal axis is substantially parallel with the axial direction and substantially perpendicular to the roll plane.

The elevation block includes an aft lateral orifice co linear with the lateral bore to receive the pivot pin . The elevation lead cam includes a lateral orifice aligning with lateral slots substantially in the pitch plane. In the depicted configuration the lateral slots extend substantially in the axial direction but also shifting partially in the vertical direction from forward up to aft down. The slots and the orifice receive the elevation pin . The fore end of the elevation block opposite to the opening for receipt of the azimuth lead screw extends downward into the open cavity forward of the center divide of the mounting block .

The elevation block includes an azimuth channel . The slots are disposed along walls of the channel that inserts into the open cavity above the center divide . An azimuth button and a longitudinal tang extend vertically respectively upward and downward from the azimuth lead cam . The slot receives the azimuth button . The channel receives the tang to slide therealong. A vertical orifice passes through elevation block aft of the channel to receive the pivot shaft . The ring secures the pivot shaft from vertical displacement below the elevation block . A threaded longitudinal azimuth cam orifice extends within the azimuth lead cam to receive the azimuth lead screw .

An azimuth knob extends above the elevation block forward of the channel . The knob includes a short lateral slot to receive the retaining pin . A lateral orifice extends through the elevation block forward and below the knob . A threaded longitudinal elevation cam orifice extends into the elevation lead cam .

The elevation lead screw provides vertical alignment adjustment as indicated by etched arrow . The azimuth lead screw provides lateral alignment adjustment as indicated by etched arrow . Both lead screws insert into their respective bores to be disposed substantially in the axial direction . The elevation lead screw can turn by a screw driver through an elevation notch . The azimuth lead screw can turn by a screwdriver through an azimuth notch .

The elevation lead screw is disposed in the center divide of the housing and the elevation lead cam through their respective longitudinal orifices and . The azimuth lead screw is disposed in the elevation block and the azimuth lead cam through their respective longitudinal orifices and . The elevation pin passes through the lateral orifice of the elevation lead cam to engage the lateral slot . The button is disposed within the vertical slot . The retaining pin is disposed within the knob through the slot .

Various exemplary embodiments enable a rail mounted hardware item e.g. laser illuminator to be bore sighted to other line of sight hardware e.g. an optical reticule without the need of adjusting the hardware itself. The bore sight assembly allows two screws to be adjusted one for azimuth and one for elevation to modify the direction that the system is pointed. This system has been successfully implemented for lights lasers and optics that need to be bore sighted to a weapon or other directional system.

The bore sight assembly enables an operator to move the Picatinny rail by turning the elevation and azimuth screws at the aft end of the assembly. By physically moving the rail a component attached thereto translates vertically or laterally and therefore modifies its line of sight which can conform to the rifle bore conformed to the rifle bore or other directional device.

For elevation movement the operator turns the elevation lead screw causing the elevation lead cam to move fore and aft depending on the turn direction in the slot cut in the elevation block . This action causes the entire elevation block to rotate relative to the housing about the axis of the pivot pin . The rail attaches to the elevation block via the pivot shaft and thus translates vertically in response to turning of the elevation lead screw .

For azimuthal movement the operator turns the azimuth lead screw causing the azimuth lead cam to move fore and aft in the rail cam which is attached to the rail which rotates in response about a vertical axis of the pivot shaft . All of the components employed for azimuth adjustment ride on the elevation block thus rendering possible independent and repeatable adjustments for both elevation and azimuth alignment. In this manner the first and second longitudinal axes of the rail and mounting block respectively can be aligned to be parallel to each other.

This system allows the user to quickly and precisely adjust the azimuth and elevation directions of a light laser optics or any such piece of gear. The bore sight assembly can be constructed from a wide variety of materials. The assembly should be light weight and repeatable in operation. Preferably the rail and the mount block are composed of anodized aluminum and the other components be made of 4000 series steel with nickel plating for corrosion resistance. Also preferably the lead screws can be made from high strength stainless steel.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

