---

title: 4D GIS based virtual reality for moving target prediction
abstract: The technology of the 4D-GIS system deploys a GIS-based algorithm used to determine the location of a moving target through registering the terrain image obtained from a Moving Target Indication (MTI) sensor or small Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) camera with the digital map from GIS. For motion prediction the target state is estimated using an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF). In order to enhance the prediction of the moving target's trajectory a fuzzy logic reasoning algorithm is used to estimate the destination of a moving target through synthesizing data from GIS, target statistics, tactics and other past experience derived information, such as, likely moving direction of targets in correlation with the nature of the terrain and surmised mission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229163&OS=08229163&RS=08229163
owner: American GNC Corporation
number: 08229163
owner_city: Simi Valley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080822
---
This invention was made with Government support under contracts W15QKN 06 C 0014 and W15QKN 06 C 0202 awarded by the US ARMY. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to developing computer vision systems that are installed on unmanned aerial vehicles UAV and unmanned ground vehicles UGV for autonomous flight surveillance object recognition tracking as well as other missions.

Current targeting systems such as Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data System AFATDS do not have the ability to predict future locations of moving targets being tracked within the COP. Although these systems can perform some limited terrain and mobility analysis calculations that are static in nature they do not address the key issue of how to apply terrain and mobility factors to attack a moving target. AGNC s GIS based 4D visualization and simulation system for moving targets tracking and prediction provides a virtual environment for predicting and tracking moving targets and visualizes the probable future movement of multiple ground targets based on the comprehensive analysis of geographical location terrain weather vehicle movement characteristics and vehicle tactics. The predicted geographical area where the vehicle may be located is used for searching and locating moving vehicles for targeting in a 5 D domain. The predicted future movement of the vehicles is also used to assist the effects node operator in planning a loiter path for target surveillance assets and ingress paths and terminal impact points for weapons designated to attack the moving targets.

The main object of the present invention is to develop a method and a system of 4D GIS based reality for moving target prediction to track and predict moving targets wherein the presented invention uses a GIS based positioning algorithm to determine the location of moving targets through registering the terrain image from a Moving Target Indication MTI sensor with the digital map from GIS. For motion prediction the target state is estimated using an Extended Kalman Filter EKF . In order to enhance the prediction of the moving target s trajectory a fuzzy logic reasoning algorithm is used to estimate the destination of a moving target through synthesizing data from GIS target statistics tactics and other past experience derived information such as likely moving direction of targets in correlation with the nature of the terrain and surmised mission. The trajectory prediction of moving targets can be divided into two different types road dependent trajectory and road independent trajectory. Geographical data and vehicle mobility are used in the proposed algorithms for moving target tracking and prediction. The terrain and road knowledge from GIS allow for more reliable motion tracking and prediction. For road dependent targets like cars and trucks a road network is used as a constraint for motion prediction. For other road independent targets like tanks a time varying adaptive algorithm based on target state local terrain conditions and expert knowledge is used for motion speed and direction estimation. Motion trajectories of military vehicles in the battlefield environment follow the dictates of the intended mission task conditioned by the feasibility of their realization dependent on the terrain and potential threats. Empirical models of vehicle motions are of direct relevance to the prediction of vehicle motion. For example military vehicles often execute their movements in a manner that exploits terrain elevation to prohibit as much as possible exposure to potential hostile fire. Operational constraints lead to a blending between the pure dynamic motion extrapolation considerations with those of obstacles avoidance and terrain profiling for maximum possible vehicle concealment. Accounting for the terrain profile is in turn also complemented by concerns about vehicle motion limitations induced by factors such as the maximum safe vehicle tilt angles. It is thus realized that vehicle motion prediction takes into account the baseline vehicle motion patterns as derived form knowledge and experience and adjusts any anticipated new motion variations on the basis of the current conditions.

Another object of the present invention is to develop a method and a system of 4D GIS based reality for moving target prediction for UAV computer vision based moving target surveillance and tracking wherein a UAV computer vision based moving target surveillance and tracking system has been developed for the target detection tracking and prediction in battlefield surveillance. The UAV computer vision system simulates the human eye brain using image sensor and artificial intelligence AI technology to understand the real world of the battlefield detect track and predict moving targets through vision and then make decisions in attacking the target in practical missions. A sequence of video images contains large amounts of information that can be used for many military applications and civilian applications described above. In addition computer vision is critical in guidance and navigation of UAVs for the success of autonomous missions.

Another object of the present invention is to develop a method and a system of 4D GIS based reality for moving target prediction with visualization and 4D simulation wherein new methodology and advanced algorithms are developed and established for 3D virtual terrain generation and predicted motion simulation. The main advanced component algorithms include 3D terrain generation and 3D animation synthesis to generate virtual reality of target moving simulation. The 3D virtual terrain is generated from the elevation data of GIS using the ESRI software product ArcView and 3D Analyst. Elevation data also called the terrain skin is a numeric representation that accurately portrays the character of the landscape. This data is an essential element of any database used to develop an accurate virtual environment. ESRI ArcView 3D Analyst supports Triangulated Irregular Networks TINs . TINs are vector based topologically structured models that have desirable characteristics for representing terrain and other surfaces.

Another object of the present invention is to develop and integrate within the US ARMY ARMAMENT RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING CENTER ARDEC MPC architecture a fully functional target detection prediction and visualization capability as shown in .

Another object of the present invention is to develop a system to operate real time collaboration and dynamic re planning for target engagement autonomously between unmanned systems UMS based on pre mission planning profiles generated prior to mission initiation with final decision on target engagement being left to the human operator.

Another object of the present invention is to develop a system which is able to operate autonomously for extended periods and is able to collaboratively engage hostile targets within specified rules of engagement wherein all assets are able to share a COP common operating picture of the battle space and communicate sensor and target data in real time thus allowing for human or UMS target acquisition and location transmission of the target to a weapon target pairing system and automated assignment of the target to a human or UMS asset as best suited.

Another object of the present invention is to develop a system of a distributed hardware software processing component or components capable of insertion into multiple software architectures and capable of use in multiple operating systems to include real time embedded operating systems interfaced with on board sensor controller subsystems.

Accordingly in order to accomplish the above objects the present invention provides a method of 4D GIS based reality for moving target prediction comprising steps of 

Fractal dimension analysis automated technology of the terrain for locating the moving targets through the registration of the moving target indication MTI image with a digital map from the GIS system.

UAV based sensor s suite that includes gimbaled cameras GPS INS and AGNC proprietary coremicro devices. This sensors suite was successfully applied for targets surveillance experiments and will be optimized in terms of accuracy and performance

Fuzzy logic reasoning algorithm developed to enhance the prediction of the moving target s trajectory is used to estimate the destination of a moving target through synthesizing data from GIS target statistics tactics and other past experience derived information such as likely moving direction of targets in correlation with the nature of the terrain and surmised mission.

Visualization algorithms for predicting moving targets that combine Virtual Reality VR and GIS to provide a virtual environment using 4D simulation and visualization technologies for the representation of the real natural and cultural world.

Statistical model based image classifiers 3D GIS and virtual reality to provide a virtual scenario of moving targets motion prediction and possible aimpoint within the COP.

Geospatial reasoning based on spatiotemporal data mining which will increase the degree of confidence of the target motion prediction processes.

The innovative targeting prediction and 4D simulation system uses GIS based algorithms to predict and track moving targets that will optimize and visualize 4D information 3D position plus ID time prediction . The advanced algorithms developed at AGNC utilize new advanced technology including UAV computer vision based moving target surveillance and tracking fractal dimension statistical model based image classifiers 3D GIS and virtual reality to provide a virtual scenario of moving targets motion prediction and possible aimpoint within the COP. The innovative system for tracking prediction and visualization of ground moving targets will find wide applications in the military and civilian sectors. Commercial applications include traffic control and management aerial vehicle navigation civilian emergency law enforcement firefighting and environment monitoring.

GIS based virtual reality for moving targets prediction and tracking plays important roles in ARDEC s CDAS FCS FFW and the Common Operating Picture for targeting system such as AFATDS. This innovative targeting prediction and 4D simulation system uses GIS based algorithms to predict and track moving targets that will optimize and visualize 4D information 3D position plus ID time prediction . A computer DEMO System for the 4D simulation of moving target prediction is being demonstrated which can provide a virtual scenario of moving targets motion prediction and possible aimpoint within the COP.

These and other objectives features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

The technology of the 4D GIS system deploys a GIS based algorithm used to determine the location of a moving target through registering the terrain image obtained from a Moving Target Indication MTI sensor or small Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV camera with the digital map from GIS. For motion prediction the target state is estimated using an Extended Kalman Filter EKF . In order to enhance the prediction of the moving target s trajectory a fuzzy logic reasoning algorithm is used to estimate the destination of a moving target through synthesizing data from GIS target statistics tactics and other past experience derived information such as likely moving direction of targets in correlation with the nature of the terrain and surmised mission. The trajectory prediction of moving targets can be divided into two different types road dependent trajectory and road independent trajectory. Geographical data and vehicle mobility are used in the proposed algorithms for moving target tracking and prediction. The terrain and road knowledge from GIS allow for more reliable motion tracking and prediction. For road dependent targets like cars and trucks a road network is used as constraint for motion prediction. For other road independent targets like tanks a time varying adaptive algorithm based on target state local terrain conditions and expert knowledge is used for motion speed and direction estimation.

Significant innovation in these geospatial related factors for prediction brings to the proposed for 4D GIS technology spatiotemporal data mining. In practice it will be realized by deploying in the target prediction process spatial association rules.

A GIS based algorithm has four main components for the implementation of 1 terrain and targets recognition 2 target positioning and tracking 3 destination estimation and reasoning and 4 movement route and trajectory prediction. The components and image data processing flow are shown in .

The detailed system architecture of the moving target prediction is shown in . The terrain background after extracting moving targets is first classified through a statistical model based image classifier and different natural and cultural objects are recognized such as trees grass mountains roads buildings and rivers. In our proposed algorithm the fractal dimension analysis of terrain is used for the classification and recognition of natural and man made objects. Then the classified terrain is registered with the digital map from GIS through matching the recognized cultural man made objects and natural objects. After image registration the position of the moving target can be determined. In addition the geographical information where the target is located can be retrieved from GIS including terrain road networks cities streets highways rivers bridges important sites civic and military facilities mountain height. Moving targets are extracted from the image by subtraction from a sequence of measurements from the MTI sensor and are then recognized using pattern recognition. A fuzzy logic reasoning algorithm synthesizes multi modalities from GIS target statistics tactics and other military information to estimate the destination of moving targets. Then a trajectory and motion prediction algorithm is used to calculate the locations of moving targets at the next timestamp. By tracking the target movements on the digital map the status variables of a moving target such as position direction velocity and acceleration are obtained. Two different algorithms are used to estimate the trajectory for road dependent targets and road independent targets respectively. For road dependent targets a road network is used as constraint for motion prediction and tracking. For road independent targets we use a time varying adaptive algorithm for motion prediction based on the target mobility and terrain environment.

For the classification and recognition of natural terrain objects such as mountains woods ocean grasslands and cultural man made objects such as buildings highways and vehicles we use statistical model based algorithms to classify and identify natural objects and man made objects. These algorithms classify objects through a feature vector in a high dimensional feature space. We designed two different classification methods for object recognition based on statistical modeling supervised classification and unsupervised classification. In supervised classification a set of features of known classification is provided as a training set which is then used to establish the classification method s parametric criteria that allow the various object classes of interest to be separated in feature space. Unsupervised classification uses clustering algorithms to effect an automated class delineation process in feature space.

A key element of the GIS based algorithms for moving target motion prediction is classification and recognition of terrain objects or features including natural objects trees grass mountains and man made objects such as roads buildings and vehicles so that the system can position precisely the moving target by registering the classified objects with those from the GIS. The proposed terrain classification algorithm utilizes the measurement of fractal dimension. AGNC has developed fractal dimension algorithms and used them in recognition and classification of natural and man made objects. The fractal dimension provides a quantitative index of the roughness of a natural surface such as trees grass mountains roads coastlines and many other natural surfaces. Fractal dimension has been applied to many different areas in science and engineering such as graphical simulation of clouds or trees texture analysis of material surfaces and medical imaging.

Imaging flow for moving target detection Image processing is an important component of the Automatic Prediction and 4D simulation system for moving target detection and tracking. The electro optic sensor image processing is composed of the image acquisition module the preprocessing module the segmentation module the detection module the recognition module the 3D positioning module the tracking module EO sensors and other sensors such as the AGNC coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit that integrates GPS receiver a MEMS or FOG IMU laser ranger radio altimeter baro altimeter terrain database radar and MMW. Sensors Calibration and Georeferencing

In order to superimpose geometrically any of the workflows depicted in all the datasests should employ the same reference coordinate system. From the name of our proposed system 4D GIS it is evident that the geographical coordinate system is chosen as such a reference. Calibration and georeferencing UAV sensors on the fly is a problem which is not solved yet in the research areas or practice.

The imaging sensor can provide measurements of the target range position and attitude which are fused with other object detection sensors such as radar for obstacle tracking. Besides the vision based target tracking the imaging sensors can provide more information which is very useful for prediction and visualization of moving targets. For example for motion simulation of moving targets natural and cultural man made objects are extracted from the aerial image and then those natural and man made objects including targets themselves can be simulated through virtual reality technology. Recognition of different moving targets is helpful in tracking and prediction of moving targets based on the motion characteristics. Statistical model based algorithms for natural cultural objects recognition have been designed to identify natural objects such as mountains trees and grass and cultural objects such as highways roads and buildings. Both supervised classifiers such as ANN and SVM Support Vector Machine and unsupervised classifiers such as K Means and Fuzzy C Means are designed in our model based object recognition software. In supervised classification a set of features of known classification is provided as a training set which is then used to establish the classification method s parametric criteria that allow the various object classes of interest to be separated in feature space. Unsupervised classification uses clustering algorithms to affect an automated class delineation process in feature space.

We have successfully demonstrated extraction of sky mountains and trees objects from the real aerial images. It was achieved as results of experiments with various object classifiers created during 4D GIS research efforts.

Once the mountain is identified its 3D data as well as other information such as height and geographic position are collected from GIS databases. Then we demonstrated mountain identification based on its contour model.

To compensate for the limitations of individual object detection sensors and to improve the overall object detection and tracking performance an Adaptive Multimode Tracking AMT System is employed. This system consists of heterogeneous sensors such as radar MMW ladar infrared and video. Multiple sensors can be fused in different modes i.e. sensor level fusion track level fusion and partially processed data fusion where the center of reflection sensors include radar ladar etc which provide measurements of position azimuth elevation and Doppler rates. The imaging sensors are monocular camera stereo camera and or infrared imager etc.

The imaging sensor is very important for object detection and tracking. It provides not only range and or 3D coordinates information but also target attitude measurements. Traditionally position measurements are used for maneuvering target tracking. However it is difficult to detect and estimate a maneuvering target from these position measurements because position measurements indicate poorly the changes of acceleration and thus lead to unsatisfactory tracking performance when the target is maneuvering. Target attitude variables deduced from the target image provide new fast and reliable measurements for maneuvering detection and estimation which is based on the correlation between aircraft orientation and the direction of acceleration. The delay in maneuvering detection using position and angle measurements is significantly reduced by using imaging sensors.

The Adaptation and Fusion Algorithm component plays an important role in the AMT system. It adaptively chooses the suitable sensors and fuses them in an optimal way. Application of adaptation fusion to raw sensor data results in the sensor level fusion which demonstrates better performance under certain circumstances. Its application to the estimates obtained by an individual sensor as it operates alone provides a track level fusion. Between these two extremes is the partially processed data level fusion.

In order to acquire the real time image of the moving targets in the battlefield AGNC has demonstrated a small unmanned aerial vehicle UAV computer vision based moving target surveillance and tracking system to execute surveillance and tracking of moving targets. The configuration of the computer vision system on the AGNC small unmanned Coremicro helicopter is shown . is the mini camera of the AGNC computer vision system.

AGNC built up several fixed wing UAVs and small middle large helicopter UAVs and integrated a new high performance wireless camera and configured it into a computer vision system for the fixed wing and helicopter UAVs. In order to test the image quality the camera s performance and the advanced algorithms of moving target detection and tracking a simulated computer vision system hardware has been set up and tested at AGNC for the fixed wing and helicopter UAVs.

The simulated system composition and configuration are shown in . The wireless downward camera was fixed on the ceiling. When a small target moves on the ground video image sequences are captured in a laptop on the ground through an image grabber device connected to the laptop. The captured image sequences are processed and analyzed using advanced target detection and pattern recognition for moving object tracking and prediction.

AGNC not only developed successful system architecture and algorithmic workflow of UAV surveillance component integration into 4D GIS the UAV integration with 3D Visualization was achieved is it is depicted for example in .

The second part of the presented system is an advanced computer graphical system for 4D simulation and visualization of a moving target. The algorithms developed at AGNC as shown in are used to produce a real time 4D GIS based virtual reality for simulating the moving target and the possible aimpoint within the Common Operating Picture COP . According to the predicted position from the motion prediction algorithm the geographic data of the area where a target may be located is retrieved from GIS for example a digital map and elevation data. The GIS data are used to generate a virtual 3D terrain which is based on a terrain model regular Digital Elevation Model DEM or Triangulated Irregular Network TIN . The 3D Vehicle Model Library is the storage of 3D data for various vehicles models such as trucks tanks airplanes. The 3D animation synthesis uses virtual terrain virtual vehicles and moving trajectories to produce a moving picture for the real time simulation of terrain based targeting and target engagement.

GIS technology has played an instrumental part in the real time simulation arena. As a tool for creating virtual realistic environments composed of both man made and natural objects GIS and image processing technology have been used to generate real time virtual terrain for regions all over the world. The combination of Virtual Reality VR and GIS is to explore the possibility of using 3D visualization technologies to interactively represent the virtual natural and cultural world. One of the major tools is the Virtual Reality Modeling Language VRML a high level object oriented language for the description of scenes and behavior of 3D objects. demonstrates an example of a virtual tank we generated using VRML for the tracking prediction and 4D visualization.

Terrain models can be classified into two types Digital Elevation Model DEM and Triangulated Irregular Network TIN . VRML has built in visualization mechanisms for both types ElevationGrid node for DEM and IndexedFaceSet node for TIN. Generally speaking a DEM is easier to be constructed than TIN but for a multi resolution model a DEM structure may have the problem of terrain tearing between tiles with different resolutions. Although a TIN works well in the multi resolution case its complex algorithms of the transformation between different resolution models impede its use in real time applications. GIS and image processing technology have been used to generate real time virtual terrain for regions all over the world by use of VRML technology. depicts an example of the 3D VRML data visualization within Microsoft Internet Explorer employing orthophoto image and DEM data.

The 3D animation synthesis combines virtual terrain virtual targets and predicted trajectory to produce a virtual reality of predicted target movements. Users can interact with the virtual reality through a Graphic User Interface GUI to control the display such as the timestamp a motion trajectory and 3D view angle and zoom. The algorithm of virtual reality is implemented using VRML. VRML is a platform independent file format and supports web based applications for 3D visualization. Therefore VRML based 3D simulation can be easily integrated with the client server or multi tier distributed information system such as AFATDS. The VRML algorithms for 3D motion simulation can be encapsulated in a web server or middleware multi tier distributed system . The users can use a web browser to display the simulated movement of multi targets in a full secure intranet for example ASIPRNET Army Secure Internet Protocol Routed Network .

In order to produce a 4D motion simulation of moving targets and engaging the targets a three layer model of 4D simulation is designed to generate a virtual scene of moving targets in a 3D terrain environment. The three layer model consists of three different simulation data for animation synthesis 1 the virtual terrain 2 virtual moving targets possibly including Vehicle Weapon Sound Database and 3 the routes or trajectories from the output of the tracking and prediction algorithms as shown in .

One of the most important needs for the final user of a 4D GIS system is easy to use and explicit visualization technology which will enable displaying in near real time all the datasets and manipulate those datasets through the graphical user interface. AGNC have integrated the designed 4D visualization software. As a result the Army users will be able to browse and perform queries of the 4D GIS target tracking and prediction system by means of 3D visualization interface as it is depicted in .

AGNC not only developed system architecture simulation prediction and visualization as it is described in the previous sections but also provided significant foundation by development of 3D geospatial dataset for the ARDEC Picatinny N.J. facility and it s vicinities. A similar 4D GIS database was developed for the vicinity of our facility in Simi Valley Calif. Components used to generate the 4D GIS databases included high resolution aerial images NED 10 digital elevation data USGS DOQQs and 1 24000 topographic maps. shows components used to develop the 4D GIS databases.

At the next step of the databases preparation the 3D buildings were produced by image digitalization and texture extraction for buildings rendering.

The Database developed enables us to visualize and realistically simulate target s trajectory in the geospatial environment. For example the real car object and the projected path of its predicted movements in a virtual reality environment have been depicted.

For 4D GIS virtual reality visualization AGNC built the realistic geospatial models of the targets from different viewing perspectives and even from the driver cockpit.

Analogously AGNC is capable to produce the modeling of the flying targets such as helicopters and aerial jets. The front back and the cockpit views for the helicopter or helicopter UAV have been demonstrated. Capabilities of an F15 jet flying in ARDEC s Picatinny area have also been demonstrated.

AGNC s development of the 4D GIS efforts culminated by modeling of a battlefield tactical simulation including snipers and their line of sight modeling have been demonstrated.

Analogously AGNC modeled the threat dome for the virtual launcher located geospatially at the Picatinny object area have also been demonstrated.

A mission planning virtual battlefield picture is depicted. It includes aerial and land static and moving targets such as tanks.

The major advantage of 4D GIS target tracking prediction and visualization over the most usual shareware Google Earth based open source developments is the high degree of confidence security and realism in operation with geospatial and military data. AGNC is confident to claim that a fully functional 4D GIS system will be highly efficient in Army military operations. Furthermore the technology developed has a great civilian commercial promise.

The principal concept AGNC pursued through this design is the use 4D GIS not only as a visualization tool but also as a convenient interface for control of the AGNC unmanned robotic system such as the Talon robot and other devices. shows the design of the new 4D GIS man machine interface.

The development of the manned and unmanned platform tool will enable to switch between robotic platforms and browse their video streams both draped on the 3D terrain model and in a separate lower central on the figures window.

Expand the terrain video sources by different UAV UGV capabilities including inside building image acquisitions. To address this requirement AGNC works intensively on in house and external UAV UGV video streams and telemetric files. The most important is inclusion of a WMP files format driver into the 4D GIS system. It opens the capability of video streams integrating practically on the fly.

4D GIS is a convenient environment for providing efficient integration of 3D visualization with robotic sensors control and communication functionalities. depicts the results of the integrated man machine interface integrating these two AGNC tools.

In support of Tactical capabilities decision support 4D GIS visualization and virtual reality needs to be enriched by various 3D objects types such as combatants tanks military vehicles airplanes weapons etc. AGNC started development of such graphical libraries. The figures below are depicting results of this development for the Soldier object type.

The 4D GIS application scenarios consider deployment of soldiers in different poses. The 4D GIS database contains soldiers at 9 various poses as depicted in .

Use of interoperable .3ds format will make it possible to deploy objects in multiple 4D GIS realistic and virtual application scenarios. Expansion of 4D GIS 3D objects databases will be continued per ARDEC s request if needed.

AGNC developed of the static dynamic objects hierarchy. Capability to support static dynamic 3D objects is one of the central 4D GIS functionalities. This capability should be supported by a certain system architecture organizing objects hierarchy in an efficient way. Initial design of such static objects architecture is depicted on .

The innovative targeting prediction and 4D simulation system uses GIS based algorithms to predict and track moving targets that will optimize and visualize 4D information 3D position plus ID time prediction . The advanced algorithms developed at AGNC utilize new advanced technology including UAV computer vision based moving target surveillance and tracking fractal dimension statistical model based image classifiers 3D GIS and virtual reality to provide a virtual scenario of moving targets motion prediction and possible aimpoint within the COP. The innovative system for tracking prediction and visualization of ground moving targets will find wide applications in the military and civilian sectors. Commercial applications include traffic control and management aerial vehicle navigation civilian emergency law enforcement firefighting and environment monitoring.

GIS based virtual reality for moving targets prediction and tracking plays important roles in ARDEC s CDAS FCS FFW and the Common Operating Picture for targeting system such as AFATDS. This innovative targeting prediction and 4D simulation system uses GIS based algorithms to predict and track moving targets that will optimize and visualize 4D information 3D position plus ID time prediction . A computer DEMO System for the 4D simulation of moving target prediction is being demonstrated which can provide a virtual scenario of moving targets motion prediction and possible aimpoint within the COP.

The needs of the FCS program have been met by the development of a GIS based Virtual Reality for Moving Target Prediction System which can be easily integrated with ARDEC s CDAS for the Future Combat System FCS and the Homeland Defense applications. Our integrated moving target prediction and 4D simulation system is not a closed system. It is open to other systems. The target prediction unit and 4D target motion simulation unit can be integrated seamlessly with other combat information systems including the targeting system AFATDS ARDEC s CDAS using web services technology through full secure intranet for example ASIPRNET Army Secure Internet Protocol Routed Network .

The 4D GIS system can be integrated with ARDEC s CDAS for FCS FFW and the COP of AFATDS. Integrated with CDAS this system provides a virtual environment to enable a single operator to manage the tracking and targeting of multiple moving ground moving targets such that time critical moving targets may be attacked with both precision guided and non precision guided munitions with a high probability of success.

Referring to a method and system for pointing and stabilizing a device which needs to be pointed and stabilized at a determined orientation according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrated.

Rapid advance in MEMS technologies makes it possible to fabricate low cost lightweight miniaturized size and low power gyros and accelerometers. MEMS stands for MicroElectroMechanical Systems or small integrated electrical mechanical devices. MEMS devices involve creating controllable mechanical and movable structures using IC Integrated Circuit technologies. MEMS includes the concepts of integration of Microelectronics and Micromachining. Examples of successful MEMS devices include inkjet printer cartridges accelerometers that deploy car airbags and miniature robots.

Microelectronics the development of electronic circuitry on silicon chips is a very well developed and sophisticated technology. Micromachining utilizes process technology developed by the integrated circuit industry to fabricate tiny sensors and actuators on silicon chips. In addition to shrinking the sensor size by several orders of magnitude integrated electronics can be placed on the same chip creating an entire system on a chip. This instrument will result in not only a revolution in conventional military and commercial products but also new commercial applications that could not have existed without small inexpensive inertial sensors.

MEMS MicroElectronicMechanicalSystem inertial sensors offer tremendous cost size reliability improvements for guidance navigation and control systems compared with conventional inertial sensors.

American GNC Corporation AGNC Simi Valley Calif. invented MEMS angular rate sensors and MEMS IMUs Inertial Measurement Units referring to US patents MicroElectroMechanical System for Measuring Angular Rate U.S. Pat. No. 6 508 122 Processing Method for Motion Measurement U.S. Pat. No. 6 473 713 Angular Rate Producer with MicroElectroMechanical System Technology U.S. Pat. No. 6 311 555 Micro Inertial Measurement Unit U.S. Pat. No. 6 456 939. Either the micro IMU or the coremicro IMU is The world s smallest IMU and is based on the combination of solid state MicroElectroMechanical Systems MEMS inertial sensors and Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC implementation. The coremicro IMU is a fully self contained motion sensing unit. It provides angle increments velocity increments a time base sync in three axes and is capable of withstanding high vibration and acceleration. The coremicro IMU is opening versatile commercial applications in which conventional IMUs can not be applied. They include land navigation automobiles personal hand held navigators robotics marine users and unmanned air users various communication instrumentation guidance navigation and control applications.

The coremicro IMU makes it possible to build a low cost low weight and small size automatic stabilization and pointing control of a device.

It is worth to mention that although the coremicro IMU is preferred for the present invention the present invention is not limited to the coremicro IMU. Any IMU device with such specifications can be used in the system of the present invention.

Referring to the automatic stabilization and pointing control system of the present invention for a device comprises an attitude producer a target coordinate producer a pointing controller an actuator and a visual and voice device .

The attitude producer includes an IMU AHRS Inertial Measurement Unit Attitude and Heading Reference System device or GPS Global Positioning System attitude receiver for determining current attitude and attitude rate measurements of a device .

The target coordinate producer is adapted for measuring the desired point direction of the device by capturing and tracking a target.

The pointing controller is adapted for computing platform rotation commands to an actuator using the desired pointing direction of the device and the current attitude measurement of the device to rotate the device .

The visual and voice device which can be a hand held or head up device or others is adapted for providing the operator with audio and visual means to improve his her decision including displaying the desired pointing direction and current attitude of the device target trajectory and producing a voice representing the pointing procedure.

The automatic stabilization and pointing control system of the present invention is a feedback control system. The operator uses the target coordinate producer to capture and track a target to measure the desired point direction of the pointed device . The IMU AHRS is used to measure the current attitude of the pointed device . Using errors between the desired point direction and current direction of the pointed device the pointing controller determines platform rotation commands to the actuator . The actuator changes the current attitude of the pointed device to bring it into closer correspondence with the desired orientation.

Since arbitrary disturbances and unwanted fluctuations can occur at various points in the system of the present invention the system of the present invention must be able to reject or filter out these fluctuations and perform its task with the prescribed accuracy while producing as faithful a representation of the desirable pointing direction as feasible. This function of the filtering and smoothing is achieved by the above mentioned pointing controller with different types of feedback approaches namely 

As shown in the target coordinate producer comprises of eye tracker and viewing sensor . The target coordinate producer using eye tracker measuring a desired pointing direction for the remote controlled weapon firing of said device by capturing and tracking a target comprises a platform on which reside a viewing sensor and a weapon such as a gun a gun turret a mortar an artillery etc.

There is an operator system that is remotely monitoring the scene on a display as viewed by the viewing sensor. The goal of the operator system is to acquire and track a selected target according to the scanning motion of the eyes of the object and the locking point at a selected target of the eyes. The operator system can therefore subsequently track the target according to the eye motion of an object.

The movement of the object s eyes is followed by a dual camera sensor of the eye tracker that the operator is looking into. This sensor is monitoring the object s eyesight motion while the object simultaneously monitors the external viewing sensor s scene locking and tracking with his eyesight some selected target.

The goal is to translate the display coordinates of the target the operator system has selected and is tracking to point the weapon on the external platform so that the object can fire at the target when he so desires.

The problem is thus summarized as one of controlling the weapon pointing movement and firing on a target that has been selected and is tracked by the eyes of an operator viewing a display.

The viewing sensor includes an Infrared sensor IR RF Radio Frequency radar Laser radar LADAR and CCD Charge Couple Devices camera or a multisensor data fusion system. Multisensor data fusion is an evolving technology that is analogous to the cognitive process used by humans to integrate data from their senses sights sounds smells tastes and touch continuously and make inferences about the external world.

In the preferred gun turret smart machine gun application of the present invention referring to the user identifies the coordinates of a target by the use of the target coordinate producer including a radar and laser rangefinder. The coordinates of a target are electronically relayed to the pointing controller through the visual and voice device . The actuator including a machine gunner slews the gun barrel boresight toward the precise coordinates of the target so that it is ready to start laying down fire. The visual and voice device shows the location of the target and the pointing procedure. After the user selects the target from the display the target coordinates are automatically relayed to the pointing controller as well as current attitude of the device from the IMU AHRS . The actuator the machine gunner interacts with the pointing controller to implement the fire control mission.

The gun turret smart machine gun application of the present invention is required to perform its missions in the presence of disturbances parametric uncertainces and malfunctions and to account for undesired vibrations. The system of the present invention integrates the techniques of signal image processing pattern classification control system modeling analysis and synthesis. The system of the present invention balances and optimizes tightly coupled signal processing and control strategies algorithms and procedures.

a measurement data processing module for transforming the target positioning measurements measured by the target coordinate producer and corrupted with measurement noise from the target coordinate producer body coordinates to local level coordinates 

a target position estimator for yielding the current target state including target position estimation using the target positioning measurements 

a target position predictor for predicting the future target trajectory and calculating the interception position and time of a projectile launched by the gun turret and the target 

a fire control solution module for producing the gun turret azimuth and elevation required for launch of the projectile and

a device control command computation module for producing control commands to the actuator using the required gun turret azimuth and elevation and current attitude and attitude rate data of the gun turret from the IMU AHRS to stabilize and implement the required gun turret azimuth and elevation with disturbance rejection.

Generally radar measurements include the target range range rate azimuth azimuth rate elevation and elevation rate. The relationship between the target position and velocity and the radar measurements can be expressed as 

The radar measurements are expressed in radar antenna coordinates. The target position estimator is embodied as a Kalman filter . In order to simplify the software design of the Kalman filter the radar measurements are transferred back into local level orthogonal coordinates. The measurement data processing module maps nonlinearly the radar measurements presented in radar antenna coordinates into those presented in the local level orthogonal coordinates. The relationship between the input and output of the measurement data processing module are cos cos cos sin sin cos cos sin dot over cos sin dot over cos sin cos sin dot over cos cos dot over sin cos dot over 

For a successful engagement the future target trajectory needs to be predicted accurately. Then the intercept position and time can be solved rapidly in terms of predicted target trajectory and the projectile flight dynamics. The inputs to the target position predictor are the currently estimated target states including target position and velocity from the target position estimator while the outputs the target position predictor are the predicted intercept and intercept time.

Referring to the target position predictor further comprises a target position extrapolation module a projectile flight time calculation and an interception position and time determination .

The target position extrapolation module is adapted for extrapolating the future trajectory of the projectile using the current target state including the target position estimation and system dynamic matrix 

X t is the current target state estimating from the target position estimator . X t is predicted target state vector at time t t t j where t is chosen much less than the Kalman filtering step T t t.

The projectile flight time calculation module is adapted for computing the time of the projectile to fly from the gun turret to the interception position. As a preliminary design of the projectile flight time calculation module the projectile flight time is approximately calculated by the LOS distance divided by a constant projectile speed.

The interception position and time determination module is adapted for computing the interception position and time using the predicted future projectile trajectory and projectile flight time. Once the predicted target trajectory is determined the time tfor the projectile to fly from the gun turret to each point of the predicted target trajectory and the time tfor the target to fly to the point can be calculated. Then the interception position can be determined since for the interception point the time tshould be equal to the time t.

The fire control solution module gives the required gun turret azimuth and elevation by means of the given interception time and position from the target position predictor . Once the interception position is known the gun tip elevation and azimuth can be accurately determined by using the fire control solution algorithms. The desired device tip azimuth and elevation are calculated by

The device control command computation module computes the platform rotation commands to the actuator using the desired device tip azimuth and the elevation from the fire control solution module and the current attitude and attitude rate data from the IMU AHRS to place the gun tip to the desired position and stabilize the gun tip at the desired position with any disturbance rejection.

The device control command computation module is a digital controller and definitely essential to isolate the gun turret from vibrations while maintaining precision stabilization and pointing performance.

As a preferred embodiment of the visual and voice device the visual and voice device is designed to display the target of the field of view of the gun turret motion the projectile and target flight trajectories during the interception process.

Referring to the automatic stabilization and pointing control method according to the above preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises the steps of 

 1 identifying a desired pointing direction of a device by providing coordinates of a target by a means including a target coordinate producer 

 2 determining a current attitude measurement of the device by a means including an inertial measurement unit 

 3 computing platform rotation commands of the device using the desired pointing direction of the device and the current attitude measurements of the device by a means including a pointing controller 

According to the preferred embodiment of the present invention the step 3 further comprises the steps of 

3.1 transforming the target positioning measurements measured by the target coordinate producer and corrupted with measurement noise from the target coordinate producer body coordinates to local level coordinates 

3.2 yielding the current target state including target position estimation using target positioning measurements measured by the target coordinate producer 

3.3 predicting the future target trajectory and calculating interception position and time of a projectile launched by the gun turret and the target 

3.5 producing control commands to the actuator using the gun turret azimuth and elevation and the current attitude and attitude rate data of the gun turret from the IMU AHRS to stabilize and implement the gun turret azimuth and elevation with disturbance rejection.

3.3.1 extrapolating the future trajectory of the projectile using the current target state including the current target position estimation and system dynamic matrix 

3.3.3 computing interception position and time using the predicted future projectile trajectory and projectile flight time.

The preferred IMU AHRS is a micro MEMS IMU in which a position and attitude processor is built in. The IMU AHRS is disclosed as follows.

Generally an inertial measurement unit IMU is employed to determine the motion of a carrier. In principle an inertial measurement unit relies on three orthogonally mounted inertial angular rate producers and three orthogonally mounted acceleration producers to obtain three axis angular rate and acceleration measurement signals. The three orthogonally mounted inertial angular rate producers and three orthogonally mounted acceleration producers with additional supporting mechanical structure and electronic devices are conventionally called an Inertial Measurement Unit IMU . The conventional IMUs may be cataloged into Platform IMU and Strapdown IMU.

In the platform IMU angular rate producers and acceleration producers are installed on a stabilized platform. Attitude measurements can be directly picked off from the platform structure. But attitude rate measurements can not be directly obtained from the platform. Moreover there are highly accurate feedback control loops associated with the platform.

Compared with the platform IMU in the strapdown IMU angular rate producers and acceleration producers are directly strapped down with the carrier and move with the carrier. The output signals of the strapdown rate producers and acceleration producers are expressed in the carrier body frame. The attitude and attitude rate measurements can be obtained by means of a series of computations.

A conventional IMU uses a variety of inertial angular rate producers and acceleration producers. Conventional inertial angular rate producers include iron spinning wheel gyros and optical gyros such as Floated Integrating Gyros FIG Dynamically Tuned Gyros DTG Ring Laser Gyros RLG Fiber Optic Gyros FOG Electrostatic Gyros ESG Josephson Junction Gyros JJG Hemisperical Resonating Gyros HRG etc. Conventional acceleration producers include Pulsed Integrating Pendulous Accelerometer PIPA Pendulous Integrating Gyro Accelerometer PIGA etc.

The processing method mechanical supporting structures and electronic circuitry of conventional IMUs vary with the type of gyros and accelerometers employed in the IMUs. Because conventional gyros and accelerometers have a large size high power consumption and moving mass complex feedback control loops are required to obtain stable motion measurements. For example dynamic tuned gyros and accelerometers need force rebalance loops to create a moving mass idle position. There are often pulse modulation force rebalance circuits associated with dynamic tuned gyros and accelerometer based IMUs. Therefore conventional IMUs commonly have the following features 

These present deficiencies of conventional IMUs prohibit them from use in the emerging commercial applications such as phased array antennas for mobile communications automotive navigation and handheld equipment.

New horizons are opening up for inertial sensor device technologies. MEMS MicroElectronicMechanicalSystem inertial sensors offer tremendous cost size and reliability improvements for guidance navigation and control systems compared with conventional inertial sensors.

MEMS or as stated more simply micromachines are considered as the next logical step in the silicon revolution. It is believed that this coming step will be different and more important than simply packing more transistors onto silicon. The hallmark of the next thirty years of the silicon revolution will be the incorporation of new types of functionality onto the chip structures which will enable the chip to not only think but to sense act and communicate as well.

Prolific MEMS angular rate sensor approaches have been developed to meet the need for inexpensive yet reliable angular rate sensors in fields ranging from automotive to consumer electronics. Single input axis MEMS angular rate sensors are based on either translational resonance such as tuning forks or structural mode resonance such as vibrating rings. Moreover dual input axis MEMS angular rate sensors may be based on angular resonance of a rotating rigid rotor suspended by torsional springs. Current MEMS angular rate sensors are primarily based on an electronically driven tuning fork method.

More accurate MEMS accelerometers are the force rebalance type that use closed loop capacitive sensing and electrostatic forcing. Draper s micromechnical accelerometer is a typical example where the accelerometer is a monolithic silicon structure consisting of a torsional pendulum with capacitive readout and electrostatic torquer. Analog Device s MEMS accelerometer has an integrated polysilicon capacitive structure fabricated with on chip BiMOS process to include a precision voltage reference local oscillators amplifiers demodulators force rebalance loop and self test functions.

Although the MEMS angular rate sensors and MEMS accelerometers are available commercially and have achieved micro chip size and low power consumption however there is not yet available high performance small size and low power consumption IMUs.

Currently MEMS exploits the existing microelectronics infrastructure to create complex machines with micron feature sizes. These machines can have many functions including sensing communication and actuation. Extensive applications for these devices exist in a wide variety of commercial systems.

The difficulties for building a micro IMU is the achievement of the following hallmark using existing low cost and low accuracy angular rate sensors and accelerometers 

 1 Micro size angular rate sensors and accelerometers need to be obtained. Currently the best candidate angular rate sensor and accelerometer to meet the micro size are MEMS angular rate sensors and MEMS accelerometers.

 4 Associated thermal requirements design need to be met to compensate the MEMS sensor s thermal effects.

The micro inertial measurement unit of the present invention is preferred to employ with the angular rate producer such as MEMS angular rate device array or gyro array that provides three axis angular rate measurement signals of a carrier and the acceleration producer such as MEMS acceleration device array or accelerometer array that provides three axis acceleration measurement signals of the carrier wherein the motion measurements of the carrier such as attitude and heading angles are achieved by means of processing procedures of the three axis angular rate measurement signals from the angular rate producer and the three axis acceleration measurement signals from the acceleration producer.

In the present invention output signals of the angular rate producer and acceleration producer are processed to obtain digital highly accurate angular rate increment and velocity increment measurements of the carrier and are further processed to obtain highly accurate position velocity attitude and heading measurements of the carrier under dynamic environments.

Referring to the micro inertial measurement unit of the present invention comprises an angular rate producer c for producing three axis X axis Y axis and Z axis angular rate signals an acceleration producer c for producing three axis X axis Y axis and Z axis acceleration signals and an angular increment and velocity increment producer c for converting the three axis angular rate signals into digital angular increments and for converting the input three axis acceleration signals into digital velocity increments.

Moreover a position and attitude processor c is adapted to further connect with the micro IMU of the present invention to compute position attitude and heading angle measurements using the three axis digital angular increments and three axis velocity increments to provide a user with a rich motion measurement to meet diverse needs.

Referring to the digital three axis angular increment voltage values or real values and three axis digital velocity increment voltage values or real values are produced and outputted from the angular increment and velocity increment producer c.

The stability and anti interference performance of the pointing stabilization mechanism is mostly determined by the servo loop design. It is often difficult to determine the controller parameters that can satisfy different application environments. The system model has platform rates or platform angles as outputs and three inputs platform rotation command interference torque and gyro drift. The performance of the servo system can be described by the response of the platform to the system inputs.

The platform of the automatic stabilization and pointing control of a device can rotate with respect to inertial space if there is a command input. In the automatic stabilization and pointing control of a device the command function can be used to reset or initialize the attitude system pointing direction. Because gyro drift exists the platform of the attitude system needs to be reset periodically. In this invent however the major objective of the servo loop design is to eliminate the effect of short term interference torque acting on the platform. The interference torque is induced by attitude changes of the vehicle the elastic deformation of the platform and gimbals and vehicle vibration. The frequency range of interest is from about one third of a hertz to 10 Khz. The design of the servo controller C s is the key issue in this task. After the hardware of the servo system is implemented the performance of the servo system is mostly determined by the servo controller design. But the following factors make it difficult to design a servo controller that can satisfy requirements under different application conditions 

 A The coupling between the two servo control channels of the pointing stabilization mechanism. In the servo controller design we can ignore it but in practice the coupling can affect the system performance.

 B The existence of non linearity. The platform gimbals system is actually a nonlinear system that can be described by two interacting rigid bodies. The dry friction between the platform and gimbals is also nonlinear.

 C The vibration models of the vehicle gamble and mirror are often unknown. Since in the gimbaled pointing stabilization mechanism the vibration induced interference torque to the platform is of special concern the vibration model is needed in the servo controller design.

Referring to the automatic stabilization and pointing control method according to the above preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises the steps of 

 1 identifying a desired pointing direction of a device by providing coordinates of a target by a means including a target coordinate producer 

 2 determining a current attitude measurement of the device by a means including an inertial measurement unit 

 3 computing platform rotation commands of the device using the desired pointing direction of the device and the current attitude measurements of the device by a means including measurement data processing module target position estimator target position predictor fire control solution module gun control command computation module 

 4 combining the computed platform rotation commands with the feedback signals from the coremicro IMU 

 9 the actuator torque motors converts the electric signals to torques and the torque exerted on the platform body to eliminate interference to the platform body 

 10 sensing the motion of the platform body by coremicro IMU and feedback the sensor signal to the servo controller 

The present invention also provides a first alternative method for Automatic Pointing Stabilization and Aiming Control Device comprising the steps of 

 1 receiving platform rotation commands of said device using said desired pointing direction of said device and said current attitude measurement of said device 

 2 combining the computed platform rotation commands with the feedback signals from the coremicro IMU 

 6 the actuator torque motors converts the electric signals to torques and the torque exerted on the platform body to eliminate interference to the platform body and

 7 sensing the motion of the platform body by coremicro IMU and feedback the sensor signal to the servo controller .

According to the present invention a second alternative of the present invention comprises the steps of 

 1 identifying a desired pointing direction of a device by providing coordinates of a target by a means 

 2 determining a current attitude measurement of the device by a means including an inertial measurement unit 

 3 computing platform rotation commands of the device using the desired pointing direction of the device and the current attitude measurements of the device 

 4 combining the computed platform rotation commands with the feedback signals from the coremicro IMU 

 9 the actuator torque motors converts the electric signals to torques and the torque exerted on the platform body to eliminate interference to the platform body and

 10 sensing the motion of the platform body by coremicro IMU and feedback the sensor signal to the servo controller .

Referring to the pointed device is usually a gambled two degree of freedom platform body . Now we analyze the motion model of the gimbaled platform. A simplified mechanical system model of the gimbaled platform is depicted. It consists of 3 objects a base that is stationary or fixed to a carrier an outer gimbal and the inner gimbal or platform. To describe the motion and establish a mathematical model for the gimbaled platform we define 3 systems of coordinates frames 

Using a directional cosine matrix DCM to describe the relative angular position the frame 1 angular position with respective to frame 0 is expressed as 

The angular velocity of the gimbaled platform is determined by the vector equation dot over dot over 

The external torques applied on the gimbaled platform are transferred from the outer gimbal. They can be expressed in the 3 axes directions of the frame 1 

In addition there are also external torques caused by friction and elastic properties of the gimbals. We consider them as external interference torques in the analysis and simulation.

The external torques transferred to the frame 2 B the gimbaled platform and expressed in the frame 2 B are 

At first we consider the gimbaled platform as a rigid body and the dynamic motion can be described by the so called Euler Equations 

where I I I are the moments of inertia of the gimbaled platform with respect to the axes of the frame 2 B.

Combining the angular velocity equations and torque equations into the Euler Equations we can obtain the dynamic mathematical model of the gimbaled platform umlaut over cos dot over dot over sin dot over dot over sin cos sin umlaut over dot over cos sin umlaut over sin dot over dot over cos dot over dot over cos sin cos 

In the above 3 equations M M are controlling torques from the motors while Mis a reaction torque from the base. Therefore the first 2 equations are useful for control system analysis design and the third equation is a torque relation for the gimbaled system.

Referring to the actuator is usually a set of DC motors. A generic DC motor model can be expressed as 

Applying this model to the two motors to control the motion of the gimbaled platform in the two axes OXand OY respectively we obtain two sets of motor equations 

Two direct drive brushless dc motors are used in the two axis gimbals system for the experimental inertial pointing and stabilization mechanism. We need to have a motor controller circuit module to control the two direct drive brushless dc motors. When making a DC brushless motor controller choice there are several issues that have to be addressed so that the proper device is selected for the system.

In the two axis gimbals system the direction of the motor needs to be changed. This has to be taken into account in the controller selection. And the torque needs to be controlled so a controller with a current loop control needs to be specified. Also if the two axis gimbals system control calls for a high bandwidth servo control loop a full four quadrant controller must be chosen.

There are four possible modes or quadrants of operation using a DC motor brushless or otherwise. In an X Y plot of speed versus torque Quadrant I is forward speed and forward torque. The torque is rotating the motor in the forward direction. Conversely Quadrant III is reverse speed and reverse torque. Now the motor is rotating in the reverse direction spinning backwards with the reverse torque. Quadrant II is where the motor is spinning in the forward direction but torque is being applied in reverse. Torque is being used to brake the motor and the motor is now generating power as a result. Finally Quadrant IV is exactly the opposite. The motor is spinning in the reverse direction but the torque is being applied in the forward direction. Again torque is being applied to attempt to slow the motor and change its direction to forward again. Once again the motor is generating power.

A one quadrant motor controller will drive the motor in one direction only. An example of this would be a small fan or blower such as the brushless fans used on some PC power supplies. A small pump that only needs to run in one direction can also use such a controller. A two quadrant controller has the capability of reversing the direction of the motor. If the pump needs to be backed up this would be the controller to use. A four quadrant controller can control the motor torque both in the forward and the reverse direction regardless of the direction of the motor. A servo control system needs just this kind of control.

In order to have complete control of torque the feedback loop has to allow the amplifier to maintain control of the torque at all times. A missile fin actuator or antenna pointing system needs to have complete control of motor torque at all times in order to satisfy the system requirements. Examining what happens during the PWM sequence will reveal the difference in controllers.

Pulse width modulation or PWM is the method by which all class D amplifiers operate. By turning the supply voltage on and off at a high rate to a load and letting the characteristics of the load smooth out the current spikes a much more efficient means of varying the power to the load is achieved. A switch is placed between one end of a DC motor and the supply and another switch between the other end of the motor and the return to the supply. Modulating the on off duty cycle of one or both of the switches results in the proportional control of power to the motor in one direction only. This is how one quadrant operation is achieved.

Adding a second pair of switches to the first pair basically making two totem pole half bridges is how a two quadrant controller is constructed. Modulating one or both of the second pair of switches will result in controlling the motor in the opposite direction. This is operation in quadrant three.

The construction of a four quadrant controller is exactly the same as the two quadrant controller. The difference is in the modulation of the four switches. By modulating the opposite pairs of switches together in a complementary fashion there is modulation control occurring at all times. In the two quadrant case as the motor either stops or changes direction the modulation decreases to zero and starts backing up the opposite way. The control loop is out of the control influence during the time the modulation is stopped.

With a four quadrant controller modulation is occurring at a 50 percent duty cycle when the motor is not turning. The controller maintains control as the motor speed passes through zero. The net result is tighter control without any discontinuity at zero and the bandwidth capability of the control system is doubled because in effect double the supply voltage is being utilized at all times.

Using this concept in a three phase brushless DC motor controller another half bridge is added. The pairs of half bridges are controlled by the Hall sensors as they electrically commutate the motor with the three half bridges. At any given time only two of the half bridges are being used but they are modulated exactly as previously discussed.

The selected three phase brushless DC motor controller is a full four quadrant DC brushless motor control torque amplifier. It is designed to provide closed loop current control of a brushless motor by sensing the current through the motor thereby controlling the torque output of the motor. In a DC motor torque is proportional to current. Enough torque produces speed and the controller is used as the inner loop of a servo speed control system. By controlling torque directly instead of speed better control of a motor in a servo system is realized. In other controllers the loop control is lost as the controller passes through zero torque. This is not acceptable in most servo control systems. This discontinuity will disrupt the control system in many cases.

To stabilize the gimbaled platform with respect to the stationary base or the inertial space a coremicro IMU is mounted on the platform to sense its motion. If on the platform the IMU s sensing axes are identical to those of the frame 2 B respectively the measurement model of the IMU can be expressed as 

Referring to the system configuration of the experimental automatic stabilization and pointing control system of a device. The experimental automatic stabilization and pointing control system consists of an AGNC coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit a COTS 2 axis gimbals system a 2 channel platform controller and amplifier . Referring to the amplifier further comprises 

The coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit is embedded in the 2 axis gimbals platform to measure the platform motion with respect to inertial space. The computation capability of the coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit is also used to implement the 2 channel gimbals platform controller .

The two axis gimbals system selected for the experimental inertial pointing and stabilization mechanism is a COTS gimbals meeting challenging performance demands for pointing various payloads at high degrees of accuracy and in extreme environments. These gimbals accommodate diverse payloads including mirror flats laser transponders optical telescopes and science instrument packages This two axis gimbals system can be designed to meet specific needs. It combines direct drive brushless dc motors precision bearings angular position transducers and signal transfer devices with a lightweight stiff structure. The gimbals system can be modified to embed the coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit with its structure.

The gimbals system utilizes a vacuum lubrication process to protect contacting surfaces. Wet or dry vacuum lubrication process offers very low outgassing lubrication options chosen based on life temperature contamination or radiation requirements. This gimbals system and specialized lubrication have been integrated into some of the most precise pointing systems for ground aircraft and space based applications.

The coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit is used as the loop feedback element in the stabilization mode. In either mode the gimbal controller sends a torque command signal to the motor current loop closed by the motor controller.

Referring to the Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon can be mounted on top of a vehicle and controlled from a command center within it. In an Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station equipped vehicle the gunner sits safely inside the armored vehicle looks at a computer screen and controls the weapon with the use of a joystick or other kind of user interface device such as gaze tracking. In addition the Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station is equipped with a powerful color camera forward looking infrared camera a laser range finder and other EO IR radar Laser sensors which make it possible to realize an automatic target tracking and fire control system. Once a target has been identified the computer builds a ballistic solution taking into account distance elevation and the type of weapon. All the gunner has to do now is to lock onto the target tell the computer to fire the weapon and the computer executes the rest of the action.

Furthermore the Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station has two types of user interfaces mounted inside the vehicle allowing operation from within the vehicle s ballistic protection. 1 The first type of user interface is a video mechanical system. Its main components include a display unit switch panel unit and hand controller joystick . The control user interface provides full remote control of the weapon system via on screen menus presented on the display and by the switches and joystick. 2 The second type of user interface is a video eye tracker system. The switch panel unit and hand controller joystick is replaced by an eye tracker. The operator is remotely monitoring the scene on a display as viewed by a viewing sensor. The goal of the operator is to acquire and track a selected target. The operator does this by scanning the scene with his eyes and locking his eyesight onto a selected target. The operator subsequently tracks the target with his eyes. The movement of the operator s eyes is followed by a dual camera sensor that the operator is looking into. This sensor is monitoring the operator s eyesight motion while the operator simultaneously monitors the external viewing sensor s scene locking and tracking with his eyesight some selected target. The goal is to translate the display coordinates of the target the operator has selected and is tracking to point the weapon on the external platform so that the operator can fire at the target when he so desires. A user eye controlled target tracking system is thus realized. This type of user interface can significantly reduce the operator s workload.

A typical Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station with a Shooter Detection System comprises the following main subsystems 

A remotely operated weapon station has been built for the US military called Stabilized Remotely operated Weapon Station SRWS or Common Remotely Operated Weapon Station CROWS . However it only provides the basic functions for remote operation and fire control. For example the CROWS has no automatic target tracking function and its two axis stabilization is with respect to the base or the vehicle. If the vehicle is in motion the pointing direction of the gun turret will move with the vehicle. This makes it difficult for locking onto targets and tracking them in motion. The object of this invention is to add more advanced stabilization control shooter detection and target tracking and hand off functions to the existing weapon stations.

For the complete Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station system configuration a basis is provided by the inertial two degree of freedom gun turret stabilization and control system based on the application of AGNC s coremicro Palm Navigator. Based on the stabilization and control system next comes the automatic moving target tracking system and the user eye controlled target tracking. The following is a detailed description of the inertial two degree of freedom gun turret stabilization and control system.

Referring to Inertial stabilization systems are widely used in navigation control tracking pointing imaging and stabilization systems. In this invention we use a gimbaled system for a physical inertially stable platform gun turret as a reference object model. When mounted on a vehicle the gun turret is capable to point in a fixed direction in inertial space or with respect to ground in a short time period that is the motion of the vehicle is isolated from the platform. In practice a two axis pointing stabilization mechanism has two coupled servo control loops. In the analysis of the system however the two loops can be decoupled and regarded as independent. The automatic stabilization and pointing control system of the present invention is a feedback control system. The operator uses the target coordinates producer to capture and track a target to measure the desired pointing direction of the pointed device. The CPN IMU AHRS is used to measure the current attitude of the gun turret. Using errors between the desired pointing direction and the current direction of the gun turret the pointing controller determines platform rotation commands to the actuator. The actuator changes the current attitude of the pointed device to bring it into closer correspondence with the desired orientation.

The weapon turret smart machine weapon application is required to perform its missions in the presence of disturbances parametric uncertainces and malfunctions and to account for undesired vibrations. The Gun Turret Inertial Automatic Stabilization and Pointing system integrates the techniques of signal image processing pattern classification control system modeling analysis and synthesis. The system balances and optimizes tightly coupled signal processing and control strategies algorithms and procedures. The Gun Turret Inertial Automatic Stabilization and Pointing controller further comprises 

a measurement data processing module for transforming the target positioning measurements measured by the target coordinate producer and corrupted with measurement noise from the target coordinate producer body coordinates to local level coordinates 

a target position estimator for yielding the current target state including target position estimation using the target positioning measurements 

a target position predictor for predicting the future target trajectory and calculating the interception position and time of a projectile launched by the weapon turret and the target 

a fire control solution module for producing the weapon turret azimuth and elevation required for launch of the projectile and

a device control command computation module for producing control commands to the actuator using the required weapon turret azimuth and elevation and current attitude and attitude rate data of the weapon turret from the CPN IMU AHRS to stabilize and implement the required weapon turret azimuth and elevation with disturbance rejection.

The Coremicro Palm Navigator embedded with the coremicro IMU employs the MEMS technology to provide angle increments i.e. rotation rates velocity increments i.e. accelerations a time base sync in three axes and is capable of withstanding high vibration and acceleration. The coremicro IMU is a low cost high performance motion sensing device made up of 3 gyros and 3 accelerometers measuring rotation rates and accelerations in body fixed axes. The coremicro IMU based Coremicro Palm Navigator CPN is used as motion sensors for implementation of the intelligent remotely controlled weapon station with automated target hand off.

Referring to a shooter sniper detection system determines relative shooter azimuth range and elevation from incoming weapons fire. Currently there are several different approaches for detecting weapons fire 

At present most successful sniper detecting systems today are based on acoustic measurements. But there are still many problems in the practical field applications. Based on the inventors past experience we will mainly follow the acoustic approach for the shooter detection system.

The shooter detection can be regarded as a function augmentation for the CPN. With this function augmentation based on the CPN provided absolute position and the shooter detector determined relative position of the shooter sniper the CPN can determine the absolute position of the shooter and report the shooter position to the CDAS and or other C3 or C4 systems for battlefield awareness enhancement decision aiding and fire control.

When a shooting is detected the shooter sniper position and the bullet trajectory is indicated and displayed in different media such as 

Using AGNC s existing products and technology the shooter detection system is wirelessly networked to AGNC s 4D GIS system map system CDAS and other C3 or C4 systems.

In summary the present invention provides a method and system for an innovative design of the automatic stabilization and pointing control of a device based on the MEMS technology which is small enough and has acceptable accuracy to be integrated into many application systems such as laser pointing systems telescopic systems imaging systems and optical communication systems. The stabilization mechanism configuration design is based on utilization of AGNC commercial products the coremicro IMU and the coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit. The coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit is used as the processing platform core for the design of the MEMS coremicro IMU based stabilization mechanism.

A platform is utilized on which reside a viewing sensor and a pointing system weapon e.g. gun gun turret mortar artillery communication system etc. . There is an operator that is remotely monitoring the scene on a display as viewed by the viewing sensor. The operator gazes acquires and tracks targets by scanning the scene with his eyes and locking his eyesight onto a selected target. The operator subsequently tracks the target with his eyes. The system further comprises a dual camera sensor the operator is looking into that follows the operator s eyes. This sensor is monitoring the operator s eyesight motion while the operator simultaneously monitors the external viewing sensor s scene locking and tracking with his eyesight some selected target. The display coordinates of the target the operator has selected and is tracking are utilized to point the pointing system weapon on the external platform so that the operator can fire at the target when he so desires. The problem is thus summarized as one of controlling the weapon pointing movement and firing on a target that has been selected and is tracked by the eyes of an operator viewing a display.

The present invention also provides a method and system for innovative Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station with Automated Target Hand Off. The purpose of the Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station is to get the gunner out of the turret where he is exposed to enemy fire and fragments and position him inside the vehicle for protection. The Shooter Detection System can be considered as a function augmentation to the Coremicro Palm Navigator CPN . With this augmentation using the CPN provided absolute position and the shooter detector determined relative bullet trajectory and position of the shooter sniper the CPN can determine the absolute position of the shooter and hand off the target to the fire control system by reporting the shooter s position to the local Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station. This is an automated hand off situation for an individual unit of the Intelligent Remotely Controlled Weapon Station with a Shooter Detection System. The target acquired by a unit can be handed off to other units or C3 C4 systems centers.

As shown in a target coordinate producer using eye tracker measuring a desired pointing direction for the remote controlled weapon firing of the device by capturing and tracking a target comprises a platform on which reside a viewing sensor and a weapon such as a gun a gun turret a mortar an artillery etc.

There is an operator system that is remotely monitoring the scene on a display as viewed by the viewing sensor. The goal of the operator system is to acquire and track a selected target by scanning the scene and locking onto a selected target according to the motion of the eyesight of an object. The operator system subsequently tracks the target.

The movement of the object s eyes is followed by a dual camera sensor of the eye tracker that the object is looking into. This sensor is monitoring the object s eyesight motion while the object simultaneously monitors the external viewing sensor s scene locking and tracking with his eyesight some selected target.

The goal is to translate the display coordinates of the target the object has selected and is tracking to point the weapon on the external platform so that the object can fire at the target when he so desires by using the operator system.

The problem is thus summarized as one of controlling the weapon pointing movement and firing on a target that has been selected and is tracked by the eyes of an object viewing a display.

The external viewing sensor and the weapon are close to each other on an external platform. The operator can slew the platform to gaze at and search a large field of regard. The control achieves a smooth and accurate following of the target so that the weapon can successfully and rapidly engage the target. The viewing coordinates are translated to weapon pointing azimuth and elevation motion which accurately follows the target.

The design is general with a baseline that can be formulated and modified to take care of specific needs. For example one can select eye tracking units that are already commercially available and COTS displays. One can select a platform and size it for a viewing sensor that can be useful for nominal target acquisition distances and select a machine gun that is already there for shooting at objects such as helicopters.

As shown in the operator can remotely monitor the scene on a display as viewed by the camera telescope. The operator gazes at acquires and tracks a selected target by scanning the scene with his eyes and locking his eyesight onto a selected target. The movement of the operator s eyes is followed by a dual camera sensor that the operator is looking into. This sensor is monitoring the operator s eyesight motion while the operator simultaneously monitors the external camera telescope s scene locking and tracking with his eyesight some selected targets. The display coordinates of the target that the operator has selected are translated to point the weapon on the external platform so that the operator can fire at the target when he desires.

The use of an autotracker is deemed to be of maximum benefit to the operator of a remotely controlled weapon system since following initial designation by the operator multiple targets can be autonomously tracked simultaneously until the operator decides to engage them Even in the single target case an autotracker can significantly alleviate the operator s monitoring workload.

Referring to in many applications a user needs to command a device to be pointed and stabilized with specified orientation. For example an antenna or a transmitter and receiver beam in a mobile communication system carried in a vehicle needs to be pointed at a communication satellite in orbit in dynamic environments. Or a weapon turret or a sniper rifle in the hands of a warrior of an Army elite sniper team needs to be pointed at a hostile target in a complex environment. A measurement device in a land survey system needs to be pointed at a specific direction with precision and stabilized.

The present invention provides a system for target tracking pointing and trajectory estimation system comprising an automated target tracking a measurement data processing module for transforming target positioning measurements corrupted with measurement noise from body coordinates to local level coordinates a target position estimator yielding the current target state a target position prediction of the future target trajectory and calculation of the interception position and time of a projectile launched by the weapon platform and the target a fire control solution module producing the weapon platform azimuth and elevation required for launch of a projectile and a device control command computation module for producing control commands to the actuator using the required weapon platform azimuth and elevation and current attitude and attitude rate data of the weapon platform from an IMU AHRS to stabilize and implement the required weapon platform azimuth and elevation with disturbance rejection.

Collaboration Engagement The target is acquired first by the Coremicro 4D GIS targeting system as shown in . Then the real time projectile trajectory is determined by the automated stabilization and pointing control system as shown in .

 1 Targeting There are two modes of operation as shown in . One mode of operation is the automatic target finding interface which automatically slews the gimbaled camera to line up with the target line of sight. The user can simply place the target icon at the center of the 3D virtual terrain and a mouse click on the Find Target button initiates the gimbaled camera pan motion. The second mode is the tele operational mode that utilizes the virtual joystick on the Robotic Control Module to control the pan tilt position of the gimbaled camera.

 2 Trajectory Estimation After meteorological MET variables have been estimated these variables are employed for the impact point prediction and solving for the correct aiming as shown in Error Reference source not found.32. By specifying the desired target coordinates the software will select the proper charge setting and solve for the correct azimuth and elevation angles needed for the desired impact point. The optimization problem for finding the real time aiming solution is to minimize the impact point error that is to find the global minimum of the error function which is a nonlinear function of more than one independent variable specifically azimuth and elevation angles .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a Coremicro Robot together with the Coremicro 4D GIS provides the basis for target acquisition and target coordinates determination. The Coremicro Robot gimbaled camera control interface provides two modes of operation as described above.

The implementation of the gimbaled camera control provides adequate control of the gimbaled camera for surveillance and target geo location. To expedite the targeting processes and simplify the graphical user interface the remote gimbaled control is added using the mouse click on video functionalities. The user can now simply click on the image of the video feed and the camera will automatically center the camera field of view based on the mouse click position. Hence the operator can control the pan and tilt motion of the gimbaled camera by simply using the mouse click on the live video feed.

The Robot graphical user interface also provides two buttons for the reset and home control of the gimbaled camera as shown in . The reset functionality resets or re initialize the gimbaled position in the case where the zero position is no longer at the center due to inadvertent impact to the gimbals. The home button sends the gimbaled camera back to the zero position for both the pan and tilt angles. This graphical user interface enhancement expedites the targeting and target geo location processes as well as provides ease of use and training for the operators.

Features are incorporated in the Coremicro 4D GIS graphical user interface enhancing the overall layout of the various interface modules expediting the targeting and target geo location processes minimizing the training effort for the operator as well as providing ease of use. At the start of the Coremicro 4D GIS system it automatically loads the default database which includes the Map shapefiles and various simulation scenarios. It also automatically focuses the 3D virtual terrain viewpoint to the top view of the Building as the default start sequence. The initial position of various graphical user interface module windows are arranged to fit within the tablet pc display. The Robot control Interface virtual joystick also indicates the direction of the control based on the control modes such as Forward F Backward B Left L Right R for the motor control Up Up Down Dn Left L Right R for the gimbaled camera F B UP Dn for the Arm and Open Op Close Cl for the gripper. shows the screen capture of the current Coremicro 4D GIS system graphical user interface.

Targeting location from remotely sensed terrestrial and aerial imagery is one of the most important Coremicro 4D GIS functionalities. In order to render imagery into the Coremicro 4D GIS camera position and orientation angles need to be reconstructed. Orientation of the camera presented in the Coremicro 4D GIS is determined by three Euler angles. The Coremicro 4D GIS system GUI is depicted in .

The US ARDEC Combat Decision Aids System CDAS database shapefiles are integrated into the Coremicro 4D GIS demo database. All the GIS layers are reprojected to be consistent with the Coremicro 4D GIS cartographic projection and appear as separate GIS layers group when the database menu appears. GIS data is organized as separate layers each of which can be switched in on and off states in a database window. depicts a borders layer of CDAS data integrated into the Coremicro 4D GIS database.

Current decision support systems do not have the ability to control multiple robotic platforms simultaneously with the ability of multi sensor data processing and prediction of future locations of moving targets within the Common Operational Picture COP . Furthermore abilities of efficient 3D visualization are also limited. In contrast the Coremicro 4D GIS Virtual Reality for Moving Target Prediction and Visualization is an efficient computer vision and GIS tool which has all these capabilities. Augmenting the Coremicro 4D GIS environment by UGV UAV network centric controlling capabilities and plugging in this system as a display closes the complete technological loop of the ARDEC network centric warrior system. All the work is performed within the ARDEC MPC architecture. The Coremicro 4D GIS User Datagram Protocol UDP Connection to CDAS and a UDP Waypoints Object tool were created. GUI of the UDP connection tool is depicted in .

The AGNC Coremicro Robot together with the AGNC Coremicro 4D GIS provides the basis for target acquisition and target coordinates determination. The Coremicro Robot gimbaled camera control interface provides two modes of operation. One mode of operation is the automatic target finding interface which automatically slews the gimbaled camera to line up with the target line of sight. The user can simply place the target icon at the center of the 3D virtual terrain and a mouse click on the Find Target button initiates the gimbaled camera pan motion. The second mode is the tele operational mode that utilizes the virtual joystick on the Robotic Control Module to control the pan tilt position of the gimbaled camera.

The implementation of the gimbaled camera control provides adequate control of the gimbaled camera for surveillance and target geo location. To expedite the targeting processes and simplify the graphical user interface the remote gimbaled control is added using the mouse click on video functionalities. The user can now simply click on the image of the video feed and the camera will automatically center the camera field of view based on the mouse click position. Hence the operator can control the pan and tilt motion of the gimbaled camera by simply using the mouse click on the live video feed.

Error Reference source not found.37 shows the Robot control graphical user interface. The user can click on the live video feed image to control the pan and tilt positions of the gimbaled camera. The automatic pan tilt control module automatically calculates the relative pixel position and sends the relative position to the AGNC s Coremicro Robot control processor. The automatic pan tilt control module accommodates a zoom camera.

The Robot graphical user interface also provides two buttons for the reset and home control of the gimbaled camera as shown in Error Reference source not found.37. The reset functionality resets or re initialize the gimbaled position in the case where the zero position is no longer at the center due to inadvertent impact to the gimbals. The home button sends the gimbaled camera back to the zero position for both the pan and tilt angles. This graphical user interface enhancement expedites the targeting and target geo location processes as well as provides ease of use and training for the operators.

Features are incorporated in the Coremicro 4D GIS graphical user interface enhancing the overall layout of the various interface modules expediting the targeting and target geo location processes minimizing the training effort for the operator as well as providing ease of use. At the start of the Coremicro 4D GIS system it automatically loads the default database which includes the Map shapefiles and various simulation scenarios. It also automatically focuses the 3D virtual terrain viewpoint to the top view of the Building as the default start sequence. The initial position of various graphical user interface module windows are arranged to fit within the tablet pc display. The Robot control Interface virtual joystick also indicates the direction of the control based on the control modes such as Forward F Backward B Left L Right R for the motor control Up Up Down Dn Left L Right R for the gimbaled camera F B UP Dn for the Arm and Open Op Close Cl for the gripper. Error Reference source not found.41 shows the screen capture of the current Coremicro 4D GIS system graphical user interface.

Targeting location from remotely sensed terrestrial and aerial imagery is one of the most important Coremicro 4D GIS functionalities. In order to render imagery into the Coremicro 4D GIS camera position and orientation angles need to be reconstructed. Orientation of the camera presented in the Coremicro 4D GIS is determined by three Euler angles. The Coremicro 4D GIS system GUI is depicted in Error Reference source not found.42.

The US ARDEC Combat Decision Aids System CDAS database shapefiles are integrated into the Coremicro 4D GIS demo database. All the GIS layers are reprojected to be consistent with the Coremicro 4D GIS cartographic projection and appear as separate GIS layers group when the database menu appears. GIS data is organized as separate layers each of which can be switched in on and off states in a database window. Error Reference source not found.43 depicts a borders layer of CDAS data integrated into the Coremicro 4D GIS database.

Current decision support systems do not have the ability to control multiple robotic platforms simultaneously with the ability of multi sensor data processing and prediction of future locations of moving targets within the Common Operational Picture COP . Furthermore abilities of efficient 3D visualization are also limited. In contrast the Coremicro 4D GIS Virtual Reality for Moving Target Prediction and Visualization is an efficient computer vision and GIS tool which has all these capabilities. Augmenting the Coremicro 4D GIS environment by UGV UAV network centric controlling capabilities and plugging in this system as a display closes the complete technological loop of the ARDEC network centric warrior system. The Coremicro 4D GIS User Datagram Protocol UDP Connection to CDAS and a UDP Waypoints Object tool were created. GUI of the UDP connection tool is depicted in Error Reference source not found.43.

To improve the portability and ease of use of the overall robotic system and meeting the particular needs of the mobile dismounted infantry the integration of the head tracker and the head mount display for the gimbaled camera robot tele operations and targeting is implemented. The commercial off the shelf solution provides an integrated head tracker and head mount display such as the one shown in Error Reference source not found.44.

The head mount display provides a VGA connection to the external VGA connector of the laptop PC. The operator basically sees the same display as the laptop PC screen within the goggle display. The newly configured operator control unit shown in Error Reference source not found.45 software provides the operator a simple single button toggle to switch between the onboard camera view and the overall OCU GUI display. Hence it provides the soldier an immersive perspective from the onboard camera while retaining the robot geolocation target location and communication functionalities to the base station from the 4D GIS system.

The integrated head tracker sensor also provides three axis head tracking pitch roll and yaw. The head tracker input is integrated for direct gimbals control. This new interface provides an immersive control interface integrated within the new Robotic operator control software. The enhance perspective of this integrated system enable the operator to simultaneously conduct targeting mission as well as tele operation of the robot. The simple single button target reporting and automatic slew to cue command when the operator receives BDA requests from the command center are integrated within the new software configuration for ease of use and expedite the completion of the overall collaborative targeting and target engagement mission.

The current communication configuration of the intelligent coremicro Robot based on the existing AGNC Coremicro Robot technologies separates the video and data message into two distinct communication channels. The video is provided by a video server which transmits the digitized video stream through the Ethernet based network while the data message for robot sensor and control commands are transmitted using RS232 based 900 MHz AGNC radiolink.

This separation of the data and video transmission provides some advantage over the communication through a single communication channel. The separation of data and video signal reduces the data traffic across a given communication channel. It also provides a more reliable non line of sight communication channel for the data link for the robot status report and the control command communication between the operator control unit and the robot.

However for the deployment of coremicro Robot with the mobile dismounted soldiers the added hardware for the extra radio link and the limited communication channels in the battlefield it is more feasible to combine the two data links. Hence we implemented the Ethernet based messaging for the sensor data robot status and the control commands between the OCU and the robot. Depending on the hardware configuration the operator has the option to communicate using either communication channel protocol.

For other systems applications the additional radiolinks and controller hardware can be eliminated with the direct implementation of the head tracker head mount display within the newly configured operator control interface. After the consolidation the wireless communication link is reduced to a single Wi Fi radio link as shown in .

To enable the head mounted display interface for the robot control interface as well as all other communications with the command center AGNC reconfigured the 4D GIS operator interface to provide the operator a simple intuitive control utilizing the combination of the head tracker for gimbaled control and an off the shelf game controller for all other functionalities such as tele operation of robots locomotion manipulators single button target reporting and more.

The multi windows 4D GIS system running in the desktop laptop configuration provides high level of flexibility for customization and configuration however for head mounted display application the multi windows interface is too complex for the operator. Hence the 4D GIS interface is partitioned within the single window interface and projected to the head mounted display as shown in Error Reference source not found.47. The window screen side is scaled to 800 600 resolution which is the typical head mounted display native resolution.

To simplify the interface with the combined head tracker with head mounted display we also enabled a single button toggle to switch the Coremicro 4D GIS graphical user interface to a full screen camera view as shown in Error Reference source not found.48. This single button toggle functionality combined with other single button functions such as target reporting BDA reporting and joystick driving provide a simple and efficient interface for targeting and tele operation of the robot.

The various 4D GIS system components are also incorporated within the new single window interface. These system components include 

The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR AGNC 2000RTGIS is utilized for simulation and hardware in the loop test of target tracking shown in . It is improved to provide the multiple sensor simulation capabilities and interfaces for the target tracking tests. Error Reference source not found.57 shows the GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR for target tracking test and verification.

The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR is a very helpful tool for the test and verification of target tracking. The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR generated IMU and GPS data are input into the coremicro AHRS INS GPS Integration Unit AINSGPS through a USB port. The applications of the GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR for the decision aid system include 

The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR is designed to dramatically reduce the need to perform expensive and time consuming field trials for testing evaluating and qualifying air space ground marine and underwater vehicles.

Used as Installed System Test Equipment it generates IMU and GPS signals on the ground under static conditions identical to what would be encountered if the vehicle was flying or being driven or sailing. Its design features support the final integration of a developmental Guidance Navigation Control and Communications GNCC system installed in a vehicle. It assures testers that GNCC avionics on board the vehicle work properly before and during a real flight driving sailing test. It also helps to debug on board GNCC avionics and verify system performance.

The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR receives real time data from the 6DOF trajectory generator and simulates IMU and GPS data according to the GPS IMU measurement models and error models defined by the user. Simulated electronic signals are injected into the installed avionics system which causes the on board GNCC system computer into thinking that the vehicle is actually flying or being driven or sailing.

The GPS IMU REAL TIME SIMULATOR is provided for simulation and hardware in the loop test of the real time decision aid system. It is improved to provide the multiple sensor simulation capabilities and interfaces for the decision aid test.

The simulated data are injected into the AINSGPS through an assigned simulation port. The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR receives real time trajectory data from the 6DOF flight trajectory simulator and generates GPS IMU RF radar magnetometer and velocimeter signals according to the 6DOF data and measurement models and error models of GPS IMU RF radar magnetometer and velocimeter. Simulated signals are injected into the AINSGPS which allow the hardware and program of the decision aid system to function as if the projectile were in dynamic motion. The navigation solutions of the AINSGPS are output to the Tracking Module for target tracking estimation.

Error Reference source not found.58 shows the application of the GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR for decision aid system test and verification.

In the decision aid the I O interface is accommodated to provide the ability to communicate with the GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR. For simulation testing a flexible USB I O interface structure is provided to meet test needs.

The system dynamic performance is characterized by the system s ability to track the changing input states. The AINSGPS makes use of several system aiding methods to enhance system performance. Dynamic motion can affect system characteristics. Since it is difficult to provide an accurate dynamic moving reference in field tests the GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR is used to verify system dynamic performance. The system motion is simulated and dynamic sensor data are generated by the GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR. The generated data are input to the AINSGPS and dynamic navigation solutions are produced. The output of the AINSGPS is fed to the tracking module to estimate projectile position velocity and target tracking data. The estimated target tracking data are used to determine the gun pointing of the fire control. Comparing the real system inputs and the system solutions the accuracy of target tracking estimation and decision making of the system is obtained.

The present invention provides a target tracking pointing and trajectory estimation system involving elements related to automatic target tracking target acquisition target coordinates determination targeting information visualization and evaluation simulation testing. The Coremicro Robot together with the Coremicro 4D GIS provide the basis for target acquisition and target coordinates determination. The Coremicro 4D GIS system GUI provides a most informative and efficient display medium facilitating the execution of the diverse targeting tasks. The GPS IMU REALTIME SIMULATOR is utilized as a highly versatile tool for simulation and hardware in the loop tests of target tracking.

One skilled in the art will understand that the embodiment of the present invention as shown in the drawings and described above is exemplary only and not intended to be limiting.

It will thus be seen that the objects of the present invention have been fully and effectively accomplished. It embodiments have been shown and described for the purposes of illustrating the functional and structural principles of the present invention and is subject to change without departure from such principles. Therefore this invention includes all modifications encompassed within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

