---

title: Radial inner diameter metering plate
abstract: A nozzle assembly for directing cooling fluid in a vane comprising a hollow airfoil containing at least two cooling chambers. The chambers are separated by a generally radial rib. A metering plate mount is attached to the rib. A metering plate, having at least one aperture for tuning the cooling fluid flow within the airfoil, is adjacent the metering plate mount.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08016547&OS=08016547&RS=08016547
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08016547
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080122
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Gas turbine engines include a fan inlet that directs air to a compressor for compressing air. Typically part of the compressed air is mixed with fuel in a combustor and ignited. The exhaust enters a turbine assembly which produces power. Exhaust leaving the combustor reaches temperatures in excess of 1000 degrees Celsius. Thus turbine assemblies are exposed to the high temperatures. Turbine assemblies are constructed from materials that can withstand such temperatures. In addition turbine assemblies often contain cooling systems that prolong the usable life of the components including rotating blades and stationary vanes. The cooling systems reduce the likelihood of oxidation due to exposure to excessive temperatures. The cooling systems are supplied with cooling fluid from part of the compressed air stream and air that enters the engine at the fan and bypasses the combustor.

The stationary vanes of the turbine assembly may be cooled by directing a cooling fluid through a series of internal passages contained within the airfoil of the vane. The internal passages create a cooling circuit. The cooling circuit of a vane will receive the cooling fluid from the cooling system to maintain the whole of the vane at a relatively uniform temperature.

Airflow through the vane cooling circuit is typically determined by the vane design and is typically the same for all vanes in a single stage of the engine. The vane cooling circuit may include several internal cavities. It is often desirable to adjust and tune the cooling flow through the vane cooling circuit.

To adjust the flow current technologies adhere a thin sheet metal plate that has one or more holes over one of the internal cavity inlets at the outer diameter of the vane. The metering plate placed at the internal cavity inlet does decrease the flow through the cavity but it also causes the pressure of the cavity to drop. The contraction and expansion of air as it is forced through the metering plate magnifies the pressure drop and thus efficacy of the cooling air. Another common way to adjust flow through in the vane is to use an inner diameter rib termination adjacent the bottom of the cavity to meter the flow of the cooling fluid. However these inner diameter features are designed into the vane casting and do not allow for post casting adjustments to the fluid flow. While advances have been made in the cooling circuits contained within vane airfoils a need still exists for a vane which has tunable cooling efficiency.

Disclosed is a turbine vane segment having a platform and a shroud with an airfoil extending between the shroud and platform. The airfoil has a leading edge a trailing edge a pressure wall and a suction wall. The airfoil includes a plurality of generally radial ribs extending between the pressure suction walls to define a plurality of discrete cavities between the leading edge and trailing edge that extend lengthwise of the airfoil. The shroud contains at least one opening to allow a cooling fluid into the cavities and the platform contains at least one exhaust port to allow the cooling fluid to exit the cavities. At least one of the ribs has a metering plate mount adjacent a bottom side of the rib and a metering plate is inserted within the airfoil into the metering plate mount.

In another embodiment a nozzle assembly for directing cooling fluid in a vane comprising a hollow airfoil containing at least two cooling chambers is disclosed. The chambers are separated by a generally radial rib. A metering plate mount is attached to the rib. A metering plate having at least one aperture for tuning the cooling fluid flow within the airfoil is adjacent the metering plate mount.

In another embodiment a method of cooling a multicavity vane for a gas turbine engine is disclosed. The multi cavity vane is cast. The vane has a shroud a platform and a hollow airfoil extending between the shroud and platform. The airfoil also has a plurality of radial ribs which divide the airfoil into several cavities wherein at least two ribs extend from the shroud through the airfoil and terminate prior to the platform. A metering plate mount is adjacent on of the at least two ribs and the platform. A desired cooling flow through the several cavities in the airfoil is determined and a metering plate is fabricated. The metering plate is inserted into metering plate mount of the airfoil to achieve the desired cooling flow.

Airfoil is hollow and contains cavities and . Each cavity and is separated from the adjacent one by ribs and . Cavities and are chambers that are part of the cooling system of vane . Ribs and are spaced in the interior of airfoil to create pathways for fluids to travel and cool airfoil . Ribs and extend radially through airfoil and provide support for airfoil to prevent deformation or damage from normal operation which includes a working fluid exerting force on the pressure surface . Shroud also has pocket which receives air and directs the air into airfoil cavities and for cooling airfoil . Although four cavities and three ribs are illustrated more or less may be used.

The underside of platform contains pocket between extensions and . Extending downward from pocket is airfoil support which contains fluid port and metering plate access slot . Fluid port allows for the exit of a fluid such as compressed air or steam introduced into the interior of airfoil to provide cooling to the vane structure. Metering plate access slot provides an insertion point into the interior of airfoil for placement of metering plate See and to change the flow of the fluid within the interior of airfoil .

In one embodiment vane is made using a nickel or cobalt superalloy or similar high temperature resistant material and may contain ceramic or metallic coatings on a portion of the exterior and or interior surfaces. Vane may also be constructed from other alloys metals or ceramics and may contain one or more coatings on the surfaces exposed to working fluids. Due to the complex structure of vane including internal flowpaths for the cooling fluid vane is preferably made by investment casting which is well known in the art.

Cooling air traveling through inner cavities and may exit from fluid port . Cooling air may also be traveling through internal cavity but will exit trailing edge cooling holes not illustrated . In an alternate embodiment the lower end of rib will terminate with an additional metering plate mount to allow installation of a second metering plate. Ribs and are illustrated as being vertical and perpendicular with respect to platform and shroud . In alternate embodiments the radial ribs are angled with respect to platform . Of course more or less inner cavities and ribs may exist.

Leading edge side of metering plate is adjacent leading edge guide . Similarly trailing edge side is adjacent the trailing edge guide as visible in . Top edge of metering plate mates with plate stop . The aforementioned arrangement facilitates for radial placement of metering plate generally parallel and in line with rib . After installation bottom edge of metering plate is secured to platform by methods known in the art such as welding brazing application of adhesives or installing additional mechanical fasteners such as a cover plate. In alternate embodiments metering plate is held in place by the pressure or is held in place due to thermal expansion commonly referred to as a shrink fit or interference fit.

Metering plate contains an aperture . In the embodiment illustrated the metering plate is generally rectangular in shape and aperture is a centrally located rectangular cut out however other shapes such as circular are contemplated. Once installed metering plate is secured between leading edge guide and trailing edge guide see which surround metering plate and prevents fluid flow around the plate so fluid flow is only through aperture . This assures that the fluid flow is maintained as designed through aperture without any leakage to create unwanted pressure drop within inner cavity . Aperture is sized to create a desired fluid flow through inner cavity and is fabricated as a part of the manufacturing process which creates metering plate .

Rib contains bend between the pressure surface and the suction surface of airfoil . Bend results in rib containing an angled wall which is illustrated as being angled a couple of degrees with the apex of the angle centrally located on the rib. In alternate embodiments the angle may be up to ninety degrees and the apex may be closer to either the pressure surface or the suction surface provided that the rib still is in contact with both surfaces and . Metering plate contains a corresponding bend which allows metering plate to form a seal within metering plate mount . Apertures and are each on a different side of bend line which facilitates better control of fluid flow through inner cavity

Rib terminates approximately at the same depth in the airfoil as rib at lower edge . Attached to lower edge of rib adjacent pressure surface is extension . Extension is a rail structure that extends down and terminates in metering plate slot thus forming w shaped end . Lower edge of rib and the edge of extension generally form a ninety degree angle with respect to one another. Lower edge of rib and edge of extension are illustrated as containing rounded fillets although in other embodiments the edges may be chamfered or flat.

All of the embodiments mentioned above may preferably be cast into any airfoil of a gas turbine that contains cooling channels with ribs adjacent the platform. The airfoil is designed to contain a metering plate mount adjacent one of the internal ribs of the airfoil. The platform below the airfoil will be designed with a corresponding metering plate slot that allows for the insertion of the metering plate into the metering plate mount. After the design is complete the airfoil is cast to include the metering plate mount structure and metering plate slot.

Next the airfoil is studied to determine a desired flow of cooling fluid through the cooling channels. This may be done through modeling of flow or by taking actual measurements of parameters including temperature fluid velocity and pressure during engine operation. From this a design of the metering plate is obtained including the size and placement any required apertures to achieve the desired flow pattern through the airfoil. The design also includes the perimeter design to assure sealing between the metering plate and metering plate mount. The metering plate is then fabricated.

After fabrication the metering plate is inserted into the airfoil through metering plate slot. The plate may be sealed within the airfoil to the metering plate mount by the use of adhesives braze alloys or similar sealing elements. In an alternate embodiment the plate is super cooled to reduce its size inserted into the metering plate slot and then allowed to expand to form a seal with the metering plate mount.

After insertion the metering plate is then secured. The sealing process may provide the necessary attachment to the vane. In an alternate embodiment the bottom of the plate is brazed or welded to the platform of the vane. In another alternate embodiment a removable cover plate is placed over the metering plate slot to hold the metering plate within the metering plate mount.

A vane with the generally radial metering plate near the fluid flow exit contains several advantages. First the cooling cavities do not experience the pressure drop associated with the horizontal or axial metering plates adjacent the outer band and pocket . The pressure loss will be at the end of the cavity thus giving the full length of the cavity the benefits of higher pressure without the need to increase fluid flow as required by the axial metering plate systems. Cooling fluid inlet pressure losses are minimized. Second the metering plate can be made to be a replaceable part. This is advantageous to repair any worn or damaged parts or to adjust and tune the fluid flow of the vane as may be desired after extended use of the engine Third the metering plate can be tuned to adjust the cooling of different airfoils in a multi airfoil vane nozzle segment to account for circumferential temperature variations exiting the combustor. Similarly more than one metering plate may be placed in a single airfoil adjacent multiple ribs thus tuning each cavity adjacent the metering plate. The plate can be designed for each engine that uses the metering plates with variations in aperture size and location within each plate. Existing vane segments may be retrofitted with a metering plate to incorporate the benefits described.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

