---

title: Semiconductor memory device operating with prefetch scheme
abstract: A semiconductor memory device adjusts an activation timing and pulse width of a pin strobe signal according to a power supply voltage variation, and thereby loads data on a pipelatch properly and prevents an activation period of a pin strobe signal from falling out of a period for valid data. The semiconductor memory device includes a voltage detector configured to detect a level of a power supply voltage to output a detection signal, a pin strobe signal transfer path configured to transfer a pin strobe signal determining an input timing of data to a pipelatch, a delay controller configured to control a delay value of the pin strobe signal transfer path in response to the detection signal, and a pulse width modulator configured to modulate a pulse width of the pin strobe signal in response to the detection signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07800963&OS=07800963&RS=07800963
owner: Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
number: 07800963
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20080630
---
The present invention claims priority of Korean patent application number 10 2007 0139200 filed on Dec. 27 2007 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory device and more particularly to a semiconductor memory device having an improved margin of a pulse width and enabling timing of a pin strobe signal that determines a timing of loading data on a pipelatch.

As a synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM has been continuously developed from single data rate SDR to double data rate DDR DDR2 DDR3 etc a prefetch scheme is used in DDR DDR2 DDR3 SDRAMs.

The prefetch scheme is used to overcome a limitation caused by a difficulty in increasing an operating speed of a core region of a semiconductor memory device. In the prefetch scheme or architecture data is processed in parallel at the core region where it is difficult to increase an operating speed and the data is rapidly input output in series at an input output I O region.

For example a DDR2 SDRAM employs a 4 bit prefetch scheme in which 4 bit data are read from memory cells in parallel according to a read command and the read 4 bit data are output in series through the identical data pin DQ pin during two clock cycles.

As is well known an apparatus that sequentially outputs data in series through the data pin is necessarily required to use the prefetch scheme. Such an apparatus is called a pipelatch. To determine a timing of loading the data on the pipelatch a pin strobe signal or a pipelatch input signal is needed which generally is represented as a symbol of PIN.

Data to be output during a read operation and a pin strobe signal for determining the timing of loading the data on the pipelatch are transferred to the pipelatch from a bank. The data is transferred through a global input output GIO line and experiences an RC delay. In this case delay values of the data are not greatly changed in spite of process voltage temperature PVT variations because the RC delay has little effect on the PVT variation. However the pin strobe signal is transferred to the pipelatch while passing through a variety of logic devices and thus delay values of the pin strobe signal are greatly changed according to the PVT variations.

The preliminary pin strobe signal generating unit includes a delay line a NAND gate and inverters and . A preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN is generated through a combination of a column address strobe CAS pulse signal CAS PULSE and a write I O sense amplifier signal WT IOSA. The CAS pulse signal CAS PULSE is an internal pulse signal generated by a column command e.g. write read command. The write I O sense amplifier signal WT IOSA has a logic high level in a write operation and a logic low level in a read operation.

When the write I O sense amplifier signal WT IOSA of a logic low level is input in a read operation and the CAS pulse signal CAS PULSE of a logic high level is input the NAND gate receives two high level signals to output a pulse signal that is activated to a logic low level. This pulse signal is inverted through the inverter so that the preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN which is activated to a logic high level is output. In short the preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN is activated around a band during the read operation.

An I O sense amplifier strobe signal IOSTBP is a column based sense amplifier strobe signal for reading data of a bank during the read operation and determines a timing of loading data on global input output GIO lines from the bank. The I O sense amplifier strobe signal IOSTBP is obtained by modulating a pulse width and delay time of the preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN which is shown in the lower part of . The preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN is fed to a pulse modulation circuit via a delay line . The pulse width of the I O sense amplifier strobe signal IOSTBP is determined according to a delay value of a delay line in the pulse modulation circuit which combines the signal delayed by the delay line with a signal that bypasses the delay line in NAND gate .

The pin strobe signal generating unit includes an inverter a delay line NAND gates and and a pulse width modulation circuit . The preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN is delayed by the delay line and has a pulse width modulated by the pulse width modulation circuit so that the pin strobe signal PIN is output.

Two NAND gates and which are cross coupled to form a latch are used to prevent the pin strobe signal PIN from being generated while a reset signal RSTB is activated to a logic low level. Since the reset signal RESTB is deactivated to a logic high level while a memory device is operating the NAND gate acts as an inverter simply during the operation of the memory device.

In the pulse width modulation circuit a NAND gate performs a NAND operation on an output signal of the NAND gate and a signal obtained by delaying and inverting the output signal of the NAND gate through a delay line and an inverter and thereafter an inverter inverts an output signal of the NAND gate thereby outputting the pin strobe signal PIN with the pulse width modulated. The pin strobe signal PIN has a pulse width corresponding to a delay value of the delay line .

Although the pin strobe signal generating unit of may be positioned anywhere on a transfer path of the preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN from a bank to a pipelatch it is positioned around the pipelatch in general.

Referring to a PRE PINBD signal which is generated by inverting and delaying the preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN through the inverter and the delay line is activated to a logic low level. The PRE PINBD signal is inverted by the NAND gate and its pulse width is modulated by the pulse width modulation circuit so that the pin strobe signal PIN is output finally. The pin strobe signal PIN has the same pulse width as the delay value of the delay line in the pulse width modulation circuit .

In a reference symbol GIO denotes a timing of data transferred to a pipelatch disposed around a data pin DQ pin from a bank through the GIO line and a reference symbol PIN denotes a timing of the pin strobe signal PIN transferred to the pipelatch through logic devices or the like. While the pin strobe signal PIN is activated the pipelatch is enabled so that valid data of the GIO line is loaded on the pipelatch. To properly load the valid data on the pipelatch therefore the pin strobe signal PIN with a sufficient pulse width should be activated within a period for the valid data.

In summary if the pin strobe signal PIN is set to have a narrow pulse width the valid data may not be loaded on the pipelatch properly under the FAST PVT condition of . On the other hand if the pin strobe signal PIN is set to have a large pulse width the activation period of the pin strobe signal PIN falls out of the period for the valid data under the SLOW PVT condition of so that invalid data subsequent to the valid data may be loaded on the pipelatch.

The period for the valid data may be increased. However the increase of the period for the valid data is limited by TCCD in the GIO lines. The TCCD is a parameter indicating how fast column commands such as read and write commands are sequentially input. The DDR2 standard specifies TCCD 2 tCK and the DDR3 standard specifies TCCD 4 tCK.

Therefore one clock cycle tCK should be increased to broaden the period for the valid data. To increase the one clock cycle tCK however the operating speed should be lowered.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing a semiconductor memory device which adjusts an activation timing and pulse width of a pin strobe signal according to a power supply voltage variation. The semiconductor memory device is capable of loading data on a pipelatch properly and preventing an activation period of a pin strobe signal from falling out of a period for valid data.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention there is provided a semiconductor memory device which includes a voltage detector configured to detect a level of a power supply voltage to output a detection signal a pin strobe signal transfer path configured to transfer a pin strobe signal determining an input timing of data to a pipelatch and a delay controller configured to control a delay value of the pin strobe signal transfer path in response to the detection signal.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a semiconductor memory device includes a voltage detector configured to detect a level of a power supply voltage to output a detection signal a pin strobe signal transfer path configured to transfer a pin strobe signal determining an input timing of data to a pipelatch and a pulse width modulator configured to modulate a pulse width of the pin strobe signal in response to the detection signal on the pin strobe signal transfer path.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a semiconductor memory device includes a voltage detector configured to detect a level of a power supply voltage to output a detection signal a pin strobe signal transfer path configured to transfer a pin strobe signal determining an input timing of data to a pipelatch a delay controller configured to control a delay value of the pin strobe signal transfer path in response to the detection signal and a pulse width modulator configured to modulate a pulse width of the pin strobe signal in response to the detection signal.

Hereinafter a semiconductor memory device in accordance with the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Referring to the semiconductor memory device includes a voltage detector a delay controller and a pulse modulator .

The voltage detector detects the level of a power supply voltage VDD hereinafter referred to as VDD level to output a detection signal VDD MODE. The detection signal VDD MODE is activated when the VDD level is greater than a predetermined voltage level. The detection signal VDD MODE is input to the delay controller and the pulse modulator to indicate whether the current VDD level is high or low.

Although the voltage detector is configured to generate one detection signal VDD MODE in this embodiment it may be differently designed to generate a plurality of detection signals. For example an A detection signal VDD MODEA may be set such that it is activated when the power supply voltage VDD is 1.2 V or more and a B detection signal VDD MODEB may be set such that it is activated when the power supply voltage VDD is 1.6 V or more. In this case the VDD level can be more finely detected in comparison with the case of using the detection signal VDD MODE only.

The semiconductor memory device of the invention may further include a level maintainer connected to an output terminal of the voltage detector . The level maintainer maintains the detection signal VDD MODE at a constant level during a read operation thereby preventing a pulse width and activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN from being suddenly changed during the read operation. The level maintainer is used to increase the stability of a circuit and thus may be omitted if necessary. The level maintainer may be configured as a D flip flop that latches the detection signal VDD MODE to output a latched detection signal VDD MODE D in synchronization with a CAS pulse signal CAS PULSE.

Through a pin strobe signal transfer path indicated by an arrow in the pin strobe signal is generated and transferred. Herein the pin strobe signal transfer path also includes lines and logic gates through which the preliminary pin strobe signal PRE PIN generated around a bank e.g. generated in the circuit of passes to the circuit of . Besides circuits shown in the logic gates such as drivers or the like through which the pin strobe signal passes may be included. The arrow in extending from the bank to the pipelatch denotes the pin strobe signal transfer path.

The delay controller controls a delay value of the pin strobe signal transfer path in response to the latched detection signal VDD MODE D. In detail the delay controller operates to increase the delay value when the latched detection signal VDD MODE D is activated because the VDD level is high. On the contrary the delay controller operates to decrease the delay value when the latched detection signal VDD MODE D is deactivated because the VDD level is low. The delay controller may include two delay lines and and a delay selection unit . The delay lines and are configured to delay an inverted preliminary pin strobe bar signal PRE PINBD by different delay times. The delay selection unit is configured to select an output of one of the two delay lines and to transfer the selected output in response to the latched detection signal VDD MODE D. The delay selection unit selects an output of the delay line having a large delay value when the latched detection signal VDD MODE D is activated however the delay selection unit selects an output of the delay line having a small delay value when the latched detection signal VDD MODE D is deactivated. For example the delay selection unit may include a typical multiplexer.

The delay controller operates to increase a delay time of the preliminary pin strobe bar signal PRE PINB when the power supply voltage VDD is high and to decrease the delay time when the power supply voltage VDD is low. Consequently it is possible to prevent the activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN from being advanced when the power supply voltage VDD is high and also prevent the activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN from being delayed when the power supply voltage VDD is low.

The embodiment of exemplarily illustrates that the delay controller is disposed in the front of the pulse width modulator that modulates the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN. The delay controller however may be positioned anywhere on the pin strobe transfer path because the delay controller function to control the activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN depending on the power supply voltage VDD. For example the delay controller may be positioned in the rear of the pulse width modulator .

If unlike the voltage detector generates a plurality of detection signals such as VDD MODEA and VDD MODEB not shown the delay controller may be configured such that it includes delay lines having different delay values and an output of one of the delay lines is then selected. This allows the activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN to be more finely controlled according as the power supply voltage VDD varies.

The pulse width modulator is responsive to the latched detection signal VDD MODE D to modulate the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN on the pin strobe signal transfer path. The pulse width modulator modulates the pulse width depending on whether the power supply voltage VDD is high or low which differs from the conventional art. In detail when the latched detection signal VDD MODE D is activated because the power supply voltage VDD is high the pulse width modulator operates to increase the pulse width. On the contrary when the latched detection signal VDD MODE D is deactivated because the power supply voltage VDD is low the pulse width modulator operates to decrease the pulse width. Therefore it is possible to solve a problem that the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN is narrowed when the power supply voltage VDD is high under FAST PVT condition of . Also it is possible to solve a problem that the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN is too broadened when the power supply voltage VDD is low under SLOW PVT condition of .

The pulse width modulator includes two delay lines and a multiplexing unit a NAND gate and inverters and . The delay lines and have different delay values to determine the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN. The multiplexing unit is configured to select one of the delay lines and in response to the latched detection signal VDD MODE D. The pin strobe signal PIN has the pulse width corresponding to the delay value of the one of the delay lines and selected by the multiplexing unit .

The pulse width modulator function to modulate the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN and thus may be positioned anywhere on the pin strobe signal transfer path as well as a location shown in . Similarly to the delay controller the pulse width modulator may be designed to finely modulate the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN using a plurality of detection signals for example VDD MODEA and VDD MODEB not shown instead of VDD MODE.

The semiconductor memory device of the invention includes the delay controller configured to control the activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN and the pulse width modulator configured to modulate the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN according to the power supply voltage VDD variation. Since the delay controller and the pulse width modulator serve different functions the semiconductor memory device of the invention may include only the delay controller or only the pulse width modulator instead of both.

For example in the case of improving only the activation timing of the pin strobe signal PIN only the delay controller need be used. In contrast in the case of improving only the pulse width of the pin strobe signal PIN only the pulse width controller need be used.

While the semiconductor memory device of the invention preferably includes the delay controller and the pulse width modulator the semiconductor memory device of the invention operates the same as the conventional semiconductor memory device in other respects and thus further description will be omitted herein.

The voltage detector compares a level of a division voltage VDD A obtained by dividing the power supply voltage VDD with a level of a reference voltage VREF thereby generating the detection signal VDD MODE. Here the reference voltage VREF is a voltage that always has a constant level. As well known the reference voltage VREF may be generated from a band gap circuit in a memory device.

The power supply voltage VDD is divided by resistors R and R so that the division voltage VDD A is generated. A differential amplifier employing a bias voltage VBIAS compares the division voltage VDD A with the reference voltage VREF. When the division voltage VDD A is higher than the reference voltage VREF a high level signal is output through an output terminal X of the differential amplifier so that the detection signal VDD MODE is activated to a logic high level. However when the division voltage VDD A is lower than the reference voltage VREF a low level signal is output through the output terminal X of the differential amplifier so that the detection signal VDD MODE is deactivated to a logic low level.

A resistance ratio between the resistors R and R and a level of the reference voltage VREF may be suitably set in consideration of the activation timing of the detection signal VDD MODE according to the VDD level. For example in the case of activating the detection signal VDD MODE when the power supply voltage VDD is 1.6 V or more the voltage detector may be designed such that the resistors R and R have the same resistance and the reference voltage VREF is 0.8 V.

In accordance with the invention a pulse width of a pin strobe signal is increased when delay values of logic circuits decrease because a power supply voltage is high however the pulse width of the pin strobe signal is decreased when delay values of the logic circuits increase because the power supply voltage is low. Therefore it is possible to solve a problem that data cannot be loaded on a pipelatch properly because the pulse width of the pin strobe signal is too narrow under FAST PVT condition of under condition of a high power supply voltage . Further it is possible to solve a problem that the activation period of the pin strobe signal falls out of the period for valid data because the pulse width of the pin strobe signal is too broad under SLOW PVT condition of under condition of a low power supply voltage .

In addition when the power supply voltage is high the delay time of the pin strobe signal is increased so that its activation timing is delayed. In contrast when the power supply voltage is low the delay time of the pin strobe signal is decreased so that its activation timing is advanced. Consequently it is possible to prevent the activation timing of the pin strobe signal from being delayed or advanced due to a power supply voltage variation thus improving a timing margin of the pin strobe signal.

While the invention has been described with respect to the specific embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

In particular as described above the delay controller and the pulse width modulator may be positioned at locations shown in the drawings but also positioned anywhere on the pin strobe signal transfer path as well.

