---

title: Framework versioning
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to framework versioning for a mobile computing device. The described embodiments may include a web browser, a plurality of application frameworks, one or more applications compatible with one or more of the plurality of application frameworks, and a loader module operative to select and load one of the plurality of application frameworks into the web browser for each of the one or more applications based on an identifier in each of the one or more applications. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09032390&OS=09032390&RS=09032390
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09032390
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081223
---
This application is related to the copending application by Chatterjee et al. entitled Application Management Framework for Web Applications Ser. No. 12 181 776 filed on Jul. 29 2008 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Web browsers have become highly capable software packages in recent years. In addition to rendering web pages a web browser may implement a variety of web applications. Such web applications may be implemented using various web technologies such as HTML XHTML XML and Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Ajax for example. Some applications may run in a web browser on a mobile device such as a cellular telephone or smartphone. Utilizing web applications as a platform for developing and distributing applications for mobile devices has several advantages including simplified application development decreased application size increased application responsiveness and increased numbers of qualified application developers leading to a more robust selection of applications.

Although a web application has many advantages it suffers in a number of areas. For instance web applications are typically designed to run on a specific application framework. Application frameworks however are often updated and revised to improve the user experience. Absent an update from the application developer in response to the updated application framework the web application may not render properly or even function properly following an application framework update. This places an undue burden on developers to continually update their applications and inconveniences users who expect their applications to function properly. Consequently there exists a substantial need for improvements to application framework versioning.

Various embodiments are directed to a mobile computing device comprising a web browser and a plurality of application frameworks. The mobile computing device may include one or more applications compatible with one or more of the plurality of application frameworks. A loader module may also be included in various embodiments. The loader module may be operative to select and load one of the application frameworks into the web browser for each of the one or more applications based on an identifier in each of the one or more applications. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

An application framework generally refers to a software framework that is used to implement a standard structure for an application in a specific operating environment. The use of application frameworks allows developers to rely on a standard structure when developing their applications resulting in a consistent look and feel for the end user. The use of application frameworks in developing applications may also allow for additional capabilities provided by the framework to be utilized in the applications such as caching of content or data for offline access providing for updates to the contained applications accessing native services of the mobile device such as calendar or contact data and insertion of advertising into the application user interfaces for example.

Application developers typically design their applications with a specific application framework in mind. When the application framework changes or is updated however certain functionality of the application may not longer operate as intended. This requires application developers to either update their applications to coincide with the updated application framework or to continue with a less than ideal operating environment for their application. It is desirable therefore to allow application developers to specify an application framework for their applications and to continue to support a plurality of application frameworks on a mobile computing device. It should be understood that reference to a plurality of application frameworks throughout the application may refer to one application framework in some embodiments.

Numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may include various physical and or logical components for communicating information which may be implemented as hardware components e.g. computing devices processors logic devices executable computer program instructions e.g. firmware software to be executed by various hardware components or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Exemplary mobile computing devices may include a personal computer PC desktop PC notebook PC laptop computer mobile computing device smart phone personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone combination mobile telephone PDA video device television TV device digital TV DTV device high definition TV HDTV device media player device gaming device messaging device or any other suitable communications device in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may form part of a wired communications system a wireless communications system or a combination of both. For example the mobile computing device may be arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wired communication links such as a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection and so forth. The mobile computing device may be arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links such as a radio channel satellite channel television channel broadcast channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel Wireless Fidelity WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands. In wireless implementations the mobile computing device may comprise one more interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transceivers amplifiers filters control logic wireless network interface cards WNICs antennas and so forth. Although certain embodiments may be illustrated using a particular communications media by way of example it may be appreciated that the principles and techniques discussed herein may be implemented using various communication media and accompanying technology.

As shown in the mobile computing device may include a web browser . The web browser may be implemented by a desktop and or mobile version of a web browser such as Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Safari Opera Netscape Navigator and or any other suitable web browser in accordance with the described embodiments. In various embodiments the web browser may support the computer programming languages standards web protocols and or technologies required by web applications through N and application frameworks through P. Such computer programming languages standards web protocols and or technologies may include but are not limited to HTML XHTML XML Flash ActionScript Macromedia Flash JavaScript ECMAScript JScript Basic Visual Basic Visual Basic Scripting Edition VBScript CSS Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Ajax Flex Java Python Perl C .net Flash and or other suitable programming scripting or VM based languages.

In various implementations the web browser may provide the basis of the user interface and may include a language interpreter such as a script interpreter for computer programming languages such as JavaScript Flash VBScript and or other scripted programming languages where browser based scripts bytecode sets or languages are interpreted in real time by runtime interpreter. The web browser may provide a platform for running web applications through N in the web browser using various web technologies such as HTML XHTML XML Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Ajax and so forth.

As shown mobile computing device may comprise and encapsulate one or more web applications such as web applications through N where N is any suitable positive integer value in accordance with the described embodiments. The web applications through N each may be written in any language supported by the web browser . Examples of web applications may include weather applications finance applications communication applications game applications entertainment applications multimedia applications utility applications social networking applications music applications productivity applications reference applications search applications sports applications navigation applications news applications or any other type or form of application suitable for execution within web browser .

As shown in each web application through N e.g. through N may include a distinct identifier comprising an application framework version identifier through N. In various embodiments the application framework version identifier may comprise a tag to identify an application framework version that is compatible with the web application. For example the tag may include a JavaScript tag universal resource locator URL HTML tag or any other suitable tag capable of identifying a compatible framework version. In some embodiments the tag may comprise a script tag such as where the language following the identifies the version of the application framework that is compatible with the web application for example. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may include one or more applications frameworks through P. The plurality of application frameworks through P may comprise different application framework versions in some embodiments. For example application framework may comprise version 1 V1 of an application framework application framework may comprise version 2 V2 of an application framework and application framework P may comprise version P VP of an application framework. Any number of application framework versions may be used and still fall within the described embodiments.

One or more application frameworks through P may be stored on mobile computing device at any time in various embodiments. Furthermore in some embodiments older versions of application frameworks may be deleted from mobile computing device when they become obsolete or are no longer being utilized. For example version 1 e.g. application framework may be deleted from mobile computing device after a certain period of time has passed after a certain number of new application frameworks through P have been added after a software update indicating that version 1 of the application framework is no longer needed or for any other suitable reason.

In some embodiments each application framework version through P may be periodically updated without being replaced. For example a new submission release or build of an application framework version may be loaded onto mobile computing device to make minor changes fix bugs or problems with a previous release or for any other suitable reason. It should be understood that if this type of version updating occurs the newest submission release or build of a requested application framework version will be configured and loaded when the particular framework version is requested.

In some embodiments the web applications through N may comprise or be implemented within one or more of the application frameworks through P. The application frameworks through P may comprise any software framework that is used to implement a standard structure for an application in a specific operating system or for example in web browser . In various embodiments mobile computing device may store and make available all or some application frameworks through P allowing any of applications through N to access any of the stored application frameworks as needed.

In general the application frameworks through P may be written in any computer programming language supported by web browser such as in one or more programming scripting or Virtual Machine VM based languages. For example various standard web technologies such as HTML CSS JavaScript ECMAScript may be applied to create the application frameworks through P. Since many web page authors are familiar with these technologies the benefits of using the application frameworks will be readily apparent. It can be appreciated that development using web technologies is generally much faster and easier than is the case for specialized native programming languages such as C C and so forth. Further such native programming languages often require expensive development tools for mobile devices. For web applications however a wide array of freely available or inexpensive software development tools makes web application development possible for a much larger community of developers.

The application frameworks through P may control certain aspects of the one or more web applications through N. For example the application frameworks through P may control which web application is visible to the user at a given time whether a web application is actively processing data and or when to direct a web application to be refreshed or reloaded into the web browser . The application frameworks through P also may prompt one or more of the contained web applications through N to reload or update its data.

In various implementations the application frameworks through P may provide a mechanism for developers to incorporate multitasking into one or more of the web applications through N. For example by programmatically hiding a web application using a hidden frame the application frameworks through P may allow a web application to run in the background while the user sees the user interface of a different web application.

The application frameworks through P also may provide a mechanism by which developers may incorporate web based advertising into their web applications. For example the web applications through N may use existing advertising links and scripting methods yet be viewable on a wide range of devices including computers and mobile phones. One or more of the web applications through N may include banner advertisement and or may themselves be advertisements controlled and configured by the application frameworks through P. It can be appreciated that the application frameworks through P make possible a business method of providing free or low cost web applications to end users where advertising revenue may be shared among web application developers device makers service providers and even end users.

The application frameworks through P may be stored in a directory structure in various embodiments. Directory structure may comprise any suitable storage medium or filing system on mobile computing device . For example in some embodiments the plurality of application framework versions through P may each be stored in a separate folder. As shown in more detail in directory structure may also include a shared folder . Shared folder may include any elements or files that are common to more than one of the application framework versions through P. Including common elements or files in shared folder may decrease redundancy and improve efficiency of the system when an application framework is selected and loaded into web browser . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments the web browser may include a loader module . Loader module may include any program capable of loading program or application files preparing them for execution and executing the files. While the loader module is shown as part of web browser in by way of example it should be understood that loader module could be implemented separately from web browser and still fall within the described embodiments. Loader module may be operative to select and load one of the plurality of application frameworks through P from directory structure into the web browser for each of the one or more applications through N. The loading module may load the appropriate application framework through P based on an identifier in each of the one or more applications through N. In various embodiments the loader module may be configured to parse the one or more applications through N to identify an identification tag and select and load the compatible application framework version through P based on the isolated tag.

In various embodiments each of the one or more applications through N may be compatible with one or more of the application frameworks through P. For example an application that is developed for a particular version of the application framework and includes a tag indicating that it is intended to be implemented using the particular version may be completely compatible with the identified framework version as long as the version remains available. It should be understood that the application in the above example may also be compatible with other versions of the application framework. Some functionality of the application may however be rendered inoperative if the application is loaded into an unintended framework version that has different features than the intended framework version. In some embodiments when an identified application framework version is not available a different application framework version may be selected and used. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The above described embodiments may be better understood by way of the following example which is not intended to limit the scope of the described embodiments. A mobile computing device such as a smartphone may be released with first version V1 of an application framework and applications may be developed that are compatible with V1 of the application framework. For example applications A A and A may be developed each of which are designed for use with V1 of the application framework. These applications can be loaded onto the mobile computing device and implemented using V1 of the application framework based on a tag in each of the applications indicating that V1 is the intended application framework version.

A second version V2 of the application framework may subsequently be developed and loaded onto the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device will now include both V1 and V2 of the application framework and each of applications A A and A will continue to function as intended using V1 of the application framework. If the developer of application A for example updates application A to support V2 of the application framework the developer can simply update a tag in the application indicating that the application should load using V2 of the application framework and the result will be that application A will now load using framework version V2.

At this point applications A and A include tags indicating that they are to be loaded using V1 of the application framework and application A includes a tag indicating that it is to be loaded using V2 of the application framework. Subsequently version three V3 of the application framework may be released and loaded onto the mobile computing device. Thereafter the developer of application A may update her application to support V3 of the application framework and may update the framework identification tag to indicate that application A should be loaded using V3 of the application framework. The mobile computing device now contains three different applications and three different supported application framework versions for example. It should be understood that any number of applications and any number of application framework versions may be supported on the mobile computing device and still fall within the described embodiments. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In one embodiment a request to load an application on a computing device is received at . For example a user may select or activate an application on mobile computing device . In various embodiments a user may select an icon representing the application on a touch screen of the mobile computing device to activate the application. The application may comprise a web application such as applications through N of for implementation within a web browser such as web browser for example.

At step one of a plurality of application frameworks that is associated with the requested application is identified based on an identifier in the application. For example each application may contain an identifier or tag that associates the application with an intended application framework version. The identifier may comprise an application framework version identifier in various embodiments. The identifier or tag may be parsed from the code of the application and the appropriate application framework version may be identified and selected based on the parsed application framework version identifier. In various embodiments an attribute of the tag may be parsed or separate attributes of the tag may be used to identify the associated application framework. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The identified application framework is installed within a web browser at . For example any of application frameworks through P if selected may be installed within web browser . At the requested application is installed within the identified application framework. For example following the installation of one of the applications frameworks through P within web browser any of applications through N may be installed within the identified application framework. In various embodiments the applications through N may be installed on the computing device or in a memory on the computing device to be used in combination with the identified application framework as needed rather than being installed within one of the application frameworks through P.

In some embodiments the identified application framework may be loaded from a directory structure. The directory structure may comprise separate folders for each application framework version and a shared folder comprising elements common to a plurality of application framework versions. For example as shown in directory structure may comprise application frameworks through P and shared folder . Each of the application frameworks through P may utilize common elements contained within shared folder . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments multiple web applications and application frameworks may be loaded within web browser . For example web application assets for a first web application may be loaded within a first application framework and if there are additional web applications available the process may be repeated for each web application and each application framework. In some embodiments multiple applications may be running within different applications frameworks in different browser instances resulting in simultaneous access to all or part of the available application and framework resources of the mobile computing device.

It can be appreciated that the logic flow depicts an exemplary sequence for initializing web applications and application frameworks and that alternative steps may be used to install one or more web applications in the application frameworks and the application frameworks within the web browser. For example in some cases web applications may be inserted directly in the source code for the application frameworks. Additionally or alternatively one or more web publications may be stored to be loaded by the application frameworks at startup or upon request by the user.

In various embodiments a list of web applications may be stored in cookies on the computing device of the user so that the web applications can be reloaded or configured. In some cases the list of web applications may be served via server side logic e.g. SOAP REST JSON etc. . Some embodiments may use server side languages e.g. PHP to permit building of a web application launcher that may be customized by the user and or by the web application developer. Certain embodiments also may allow saving of user preferences configurations or web application data into a database implemented locally on the device of the user or on a network server. In addition the application frameworks may be compatible with plug in technologies such as Adobe PDF Flash VMRL and others.

At a plurality of application framework versions may be provided to computing devices of users. For example different application framework versions may be provided to computing devices of users via software updates hardware updates firmware updates forced downloads or any other suitable form of supplying framework versions. Additionally the different framework versions may be provided to the devices of users automatically or user intervention may be required to allow framework versions to be provided to the computing devices. The different application framework versions may be necessary based on framework updates changes to framework features bug fixes addition of features deletion of features or any other suitable reason for including an additional version of an application framework.

In various embodiments the plurality of application framework versions are stored in a directory structure on the computing devices. For example directory structure of may be stored on mobile computing device . The directory structure may comprise separate folders for each application framework version in some embodiments. Additionally the directory structure may also include a shared folder comprising elements common to a plurality of application framework versions. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Web applications may be received from web application developers at . Any number of web applications may be received and distributed to mobile computing devices. Additionally the web applications may be written in any language supported by a web browser on the mobile computing device. In various embodiments each web application is compatible with one or more of the plurality of application framework versions. In some embodiments each web application includes an application framework version tag to identify a compatible application framework version.

At the web applications may be provided to the computing devices of users. Similar to the application framework version distribution the web applications may be provided to computing devices of users via software updates hardware updates firmware updates forced downloads or any other suitable form of supplying web applications. Additionally the web applications may be provided to the devices of users automatically or user intervention may be required to allow web applications to be provided to the computing devices.

In various embodiments the web applications and the application framework versions are available regardless of an online or offline network status of the computing devices. For example a mobile computing device may lose its network connection from time to time. During these intervals it would be advantages for users to still have access to their web applications. In some embodiments therefore the web applications through N and the application frameworks through P are stored locally on the mobile computing device. In this manner the applications and the application frameworks will still function with or without an active network connection. It should be understood however that certain functionality of some applications may not be available when the mobile computing device is not connected to a network. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The distribution of web applications and application frameworks may occur from a central server in some embodiments. For example the party responsible for receiving web applications from developers and for distributing the applications and the application frameworks may host a web server or other suitable server and may allow access to the information stored on the server. In some embodiments users of mobile computing devices may log into the central server to download applications and application frameworks. In some embodiments the central server may include a web interface front end such as a website. In other embodiments the web applications may be distributed through an application store.

In some embodiments users may download or receive applications and application frameworks on a laptop or desktop personal computer and transfer the appropriate information to their mobile computing device. In various embodiments applications and application frameworks may be downloaded or received directly onto a mobile computing device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The mobile device generally may be configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile device may comprise various components for providing such capabilities including for example a printed circuit board PCB one or more processors e.g. host processor radio processor one or more transceivers e.g. voice communications transceiver data communications transceiver GPS transceiver memory e.g. volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory internal and or external antennas a rechargeable battery and others.

The mobile device may provide voice and wireless data communications functionality by communicating with a mobile network such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network North American Digital Cellular NADC network Time Division Multiple Access TDMA network Extended TDMA E TDMA network Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS network third generation 3G network such as a Wide band CDMA WCDMA network CDMA 2000 network Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS network and others.

The mobile device also may support wireless wide area network WWAN data communications services including Internet access. Examples of WWAN data communications services may include Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data only EV DO Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV CDMA 1 RTT GSM with General Packet Radio Service systems GSM GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and others.

The mobile device may provide wireless local area network WLAN data communications functionality in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and others.

The mobile device also may be arranged to perform data communications functionality in accordance with shorter range wireless networks such as a wireless personal area network PAN offering Bluetooth data communications services in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols specifications profiles and so forth. Other examples of shorter range wireless networks may employ infrared IR techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques including passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

The mobile device may comprise various input output I O interfaces for establishing connections to other devices. The I O interfaces may comprise for example a serial connection port an IR port a Bluetooth interface a network interface a WiFi interface a WiMax interface a cellular network interface a wireless network interface card WNIC a transceiver and so forth. Such connections may be implemented using various wired and or wireless communication media in accordance with the described embodiments. Although certain exemplary embodiments may be described as using a particular communication media by way of example it may be appreciated that the principles and techniques discussed herein may be implemented using various communication media and accompanying technology.

In some implementations a connection may comprise a wired connection such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection e.g. USB host USB net Serial Bus Interface SBI connection e.g. FireWire or other suitable wired connection to directly connect e.g. tether plug in the mobile device to a device when in close proximity. In other implementations a connection may comprise a short range wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth connection IR connection to communicatively couple the mobile device to a device when in close proximity. In some implementations the a connection may comprise a network connection between the mobile device and a device such as a WiFi connection WiMax connection Ethernet connection cellular network e.g. 1G 2G 3G connection or other suitable packet data or switched connection in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile device may comprise various software programs such as system programs and applications to provide computing capabilities in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. Exemplary operating systems may include for example a Palm OS Microsoft OS Unix OS Linux OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and others.

The mobile device may provide a variety of applications for allowing a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Exemplary applications may include without limitation a web browser application e.g. web browser telephone application e.g. cellular VoIP PTT networking application messaging application e.g. e mail IM SMS MMS contacts application calendar application word processing application spreadsheet application database application media application e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management location based services LBS application gaming application and so forth. The applications may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as volatile or non volatile memory capable of being retrieved and executed by a processor to provide operations for the mobile device . The memory also may implement various databases and or other types of data structures e.g. arrays files tables directory structure records for storing data for use by the processor and or other elements of the mobile device .

The mobile device may comprise various components or devices for interacting with an application such as keypad for inputting data and or commands and a display e.g. touch sensitive screen for presenting one or more user interfaces and receiving user input. It can be appreciated that the mobile device may comprise a variety of components or devices for use with one or more applications such as a stylus keys e.g. input keys preset and programmable hot keys buttons e.g. action buttons a multidirectional navigation button preset and programmable shortcut buttons switches a microphone speakers an audio headset a camera and so forth.

In accordance with various embodiments the mobile device may comprise application frameworks through P implemented by a web browser and including multiple web applications through N as described above.

As shown the mobile device may present a web browser UI as an instance of the web browser . The web browser UI may display a web application UI corresponding to the web application . In this embodiment the web application may comprise an active clock application and the web application UI may display the local date and time for the mobile device as well as the time in other locations. The web browser UI also displays an application management framework UI providing an interface for rapidly switching between the web applications through N and receiving a common set of input controls. In various implementations the web browser may comprise built in widget controls implemented by the mobile device .

In one or more embodiments the application management framework UI may be implemented as a menu bar comprising a set of icons through M where M is any suitable positive integer value in accordance with the described embodiments. The menu bar of the application management framework UI may be implemented as an application flip tray comprising a page flipping UI such that the user can flip through web applications or widgets very fast in response to a single user event such as single screen touch e.g. pressing or sliding button press e.g. navigation button a dedicated hard key a soft key or interaction with auxiliary controls such as a jog dial wheel. The user also may select or advance to a particular web application by using any combination of touchscreen events e.g. touching or pressing on an icon button events e.g. mobile device may have dedicated hard or soft key buttons for select next and previous jog dial events and screen events e.g. clicking an icon via a mouse or other random navigation events. In some implementations the icon tray may auto hide itself to reserve available screen area. In such cases the icon tray may only appear momentarily when the user is switching between web applications using the aforementioned events.

As depicted in this exemplary embodiment the set of icons through M includes icons through for switching between and among active web applications. As shown the icons through may be implemented as a clock icon a web mail icon a weather icon a search icon a news reader icon and a stock listing icon . The icons through may correspond for example to web applications such as web applications through N. It can be appreciated however that the arrangement and order of the icons through does not necessarily have to correspond to the order of the web applications through N. In some embodiments for example the user may set preferences drag and drop move add remove and or otherwise customize the set of icons displayed by the application management framework UI .

It also can be appreciated the positions and shapes of the components of the application management framework UI are not limited to the embodiment shown in . The attributes of the application management framework UI may be easily changed by modifying graphics elements or layout parameters of the underlying web page and are readily customizable by the web page author. For example while the application management framework UI is shown as a horizontal bar at the bottom of the web browser UI it also may be placed in a vertical bar along the left side of the web browser UI . The application management framework UI also may be hidden at times. As another example any number of web application icons may be used each corresponding to web application as is practical.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. It also can be appreciated that while a logic flow may illustrate a certain sequence of steps other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. Moreover some individual steps of a logic flow may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or some steps may be removed depending on the particular implementation.

In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a computer a firmware element embedded in hardware or any combination thereof. In various embodiments the logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented by software firmware a module an application a program a widget a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The executable computer program instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a computer to perform a certain function. The executable computer program instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments a logic flow may comprise or be implemented as executable computer program instructions stored in an article of manufacture and or computer readable storage medium. The article and or computer readable storage medium may store executable computer program instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform methods and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. The article and or computer readable storage medium may be implemented by various systems and or devices in accordance with the described embodiments. In such embodiments a computer may include any suitable computer platform device system or the like implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software.

The article and or computer readable storage medium may comprise one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other suitable type of computer readable storage media in accordance with the described embodiments.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

