---

title: Graphical user interface for presenting location information
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for presenting location information. A first geographic area in which a device is currently located is estimated using a first positioning system. A second geographic area in which the device is currently located is estimated using a second positioning system. A first map view including an indication of the first geographic area on the first map view is presented if the first geographic area is contained within the second geographic area. A second map view including an indication of the second geographic area is presented if the first geographic area is not contained within the second geographic area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08355862&OS=08355862&RS=08355862
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08355862
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080106
---
The role of traditional printed maps is being supplanted by modern devices capable of rendering dynamic map displays. Devices that include mapping or navigation applications provide information regarding an area selected by a user by recalling map data from local memory or networked services.

When coupled with any of a number of positioning technologies a mapping device can display a current position on a map as well as deliver navigation instructions based on the current position to route a user to a desired destination. Positioning technologies include satellite positioning systems such as the Global Positioning System GPS cell tower triangulation and network based positioning systems e.g. Wi Fi positioning system . Positioning technologies provide varying degrees of accuracy or precision. For example GPS is generally accurate to a few meters while other positioning technologies are generally less accurate.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of estimating a first geographic area in which a device is currently located using a first positioning system estimating a second geographic area in which the device is currently located using a second positioning system presenting a first map view including an indication of the first geographic area on the first map view if the first geographic area is contained within the second geographic area and presenting a second map view including an indication of the second geographic area if the first geographic area is not contained within the second geographic area. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of presenting a map view receiving user input requesting an arbitrary position marker and presenting the map view with the arbitrary position marker placed at an arbitrary position on the map view. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of presenting a map view on a first virtual graphical layer receiving a request to present other content presenting a flipped page graphical effect with respect to the map view where the flipped page effect simulates a partial peeling of the first virtual graphical layer to reveal a second virtual graphical layer and presenting the other content on the second virtual graphical layer. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of presenting a map view and presenting an indication of a region on the map view where the region represents a geographic area in which a device is located. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in graphical user interfaces that include a map view and an indication of a region on the map view where the region represents a geographic area in which a device is located and where the indication includes a circle and one or more crosshairs. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding methods systems apparatus computer program products and computer readable media.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. The area of uncertainty associated with a current position determined using a positioning technology can be indicated on a map. Geographic areas in which a device is currently located can be determined or estimated using one or more positioning technologies and the most accurate or precise geographic area can be indicated on a map displayed on a mobile device for example.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device an e mail device a network data communication device a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device. In some implementations particular display objects can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching a phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of an email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching a Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching a media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object. Touching the maps object can for example invoke a mapping and location based services environment and supporting functionality likewise a selection of any of the display objects can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the Global Positioning System GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example one or more navigation services can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location request and receive route directions or request and receive listings of businesses in the vicinity of a particular location for example.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching for example a Web object.

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions. The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The mobile device can for example receive a communication A from an access point e.g. a Wi Fi access point . The communication A can include information about the access point e.g. the Internet Protocol IP address and or the Media Access Control MAC address of the access point . The communication A can include other information such as the latitude and longitude of the access point . The information received in communication A can be sent to the location based service in communication B. The location based service can for example with a degree of uncertainty or error estimate a first geographic area in which the mobile device is currently located using the information sent in communication B. In some implementations the location based service is a system or service that estimates with some degree of uncertainty or error the position of a device using a database of access points mapped to geographic locations. The accuracy or precision or the degree of uncertainty or error of the estimated position can for example be based on the range of the technology the accuracy of the range or some other metric. Accuracy or precision of an estimated position can be affected by one or more factors including for example inherent properties or limitations of the technology or system and a level of deployment of the given technology or system e.g. number of access points or cell towers in the vicinity of the device .

In some implementations the accuracy or precision of the estimated position is stated in units of distance e.g. the estimated position is accurate up to 50 meters . That is the actual position of the mobile device can be within the accuracy distance from the estimated position. For example the first geographic area can be a circle centered at the latitude and longitude of the estimated position with a radius equal to the stated accuracy or precision e.g. 38 meters if the accuracy of the estimated position is up to 38 meters . The first geographic area can alternatively be represented on a map display as a square rectangle oval diamond triangle or some other shaped enclosed region.

In some other implementations unique signatures of multiple access points e.g. five or more can be compared to a local cache on the mobile device or a central reference database at location based service via network communication e.g. communication B can be sent to the location based service . The location based service can use the unique signatures to estimate the latitude and longitude of the center of the first geographic circle with an m meter radius e.g. about 20 meters .

In some implementations location based service includes positioning services and reference database information provided by SKYHOOK WIRELESS of Boston Mass.

The mobile device can receive a communication A from cell tower . The cell communication A can include for example information identifying the cell tower . In some implementations the cell communication A can also include the latitude and longitude of the cell tower . The identifying information and or the latitude and longitude of the cell tower can be sent to the location based service in communication B. The location based service can estimate a position of the mobile device using the information included in communication B and estimate an accuracy of the estimate position. Thus for example the location based service can estimate a second geographic area in which the mobile device is currently located. In some implementations the second geographic area is represented on a map as a circular region centered at the estimated position and with a radius equal to the accuracy of the estimated position. In some other implementations the second geographic area can represented on a map by a square or rectangular shaped enclosed region to name a few additional examples.

In some implementations the position and the geographic area of the mobile device can be estimated using a cell of origin positioning technology. In some other implementations the second geographic area can be determined by cell tower triangulation.

The first and second geographic areas can be sent to the mobile device by communications and respectively. The mobile device can present on the touch sensitive display for example a map view including an indication of one of the geographic areas if that one is entirely contained within the other geographic area including the case where the boundaries of the geographic areas touch but otherwise no part of the one of the geographic area is outside of the other geographic area . For example a map view that includes an indication of the first geographic area can be presented if the first geographic area is completely contained within the second geographic area. The mobile device can present a map view that includes an indication of the second geographic area if the first geographic area is not completely contained within the second geographic area. For example if the technology system or service used to estimate the first geographic area has a greater level of accuracy or precision detail than the technology system or service used to estimate the second geographic area and the first geographic area is determined to be more accurate or precise based on the first geographic area being entirely within the second geographic area the mobile device can use the first geographic area. The level of detail of the technology can for example be determined by a priority table stored in the mobile device .

In another example the first geographic area can be estimated using the access point and the second geographic area can be estimated using the cell tower . In this example the access point was moved from its original location and the latitude and longitude coordinates of the access point as they are known to location based service are incorrect and the mobile device is not actually located within the first geographic area. The cell tower provided correct location based data and the mobile device is located within the second geographic area. In this situation the first and second geographic areas do not overlap so the mobile device would display a map view indicating the second geographic area. The mobile device can be used to determine the accuracy of the first and second geographic areas or an external server or servers can be used.

The location based service and location based service can run on the same device or on separate devices. For example the location based services and can run on servers communicating with the mobile device through a network e.g. WAN . The servers can be separate servers or the same server. The location based services and can alternatively run on the mobile device .

The mobile device can for example connect to additional devices or services not shown for location based services instead of or in addition to the access point and the cell tower . Such devices or services could include a Bluetooth device GPS radio or TV towers or cellular grids to name a few examples. For example the mobile device can connect to peer devices with the Bluetooth communication device and receive location based information from other mobile devices and or Bluetooth enabled devices. In some implementations the mobile device can determine or estimate its position and or geographic area using other technologies e.g. GPS . In some implementations the geographic area determined or estimated using any of these other technologies can be used e.g. displayed in lieu of the geographic area estimated using location based services or .e.g. Wi Fi or cellular positioning techniques if the geographic area determined or estimated using the other technologies is contained entirely within the geographic area estimated using location based services or and if the other technologies are more accurate or precise according to the priority table stored in the mobile device .

The search bar can be used to find an address or other location on the map. For example a user can enter their home address in the search bar and the region containing the address would be displayed on the map . The bookmarks list object can for example bring up a Bookmarks list which contains addresses that are frequently visited such as a user s home address. The Bookmarks list can also for example contain special bookmarks such as the current location e.g. the current location of the mobile device .

The search object can be used to display the search bar and other map related search menus. The directions object can for example bring up a menu interface that allows the user to enter a start and end location and then displays information for a route from the start location to the end location e.g. directions and travel time. The map view object can bring up a menu that will allow the user to select display options for the map . An example of a menu that can be displayed when map view is selected is further described below in reference to . The map could be changed from black and white to color the background of the map could be changed or the user could change the brightness of the map to name a few examples.

The current location object can allow the user to see a geographic area on the map indicating where the device is currently located. The special current location bookmark can be placed in the Bookmarks list when the current location object is selected. If the special current location bookmark was previously set in the Bookmarks list the old bookmark information can for example be replaced with the new current location information. In some implementations the special current location bookmark is tied to the centroid of the geographic area . That is the special current location bookmark includes the address for the centroid of the geographic area . The geographic area can be based on location data determined or estimated using location based services or or some other location data such as the data previously described in reference to . The geographic area can for example be depicted by a circle rectangle square or other enclosed region with crosshairs or some other distinctive element to differentiate the geographic area from the map .

In some implementations the geographic area indicates a region in which the mobile device is determined or estimated to be located and the geographic area may not necessarily be centered on the actual current position of the mobile device . In this example the mobile device may be located off center within the geographic area. In another example the geographic area can be centered on an estimated current position of the mobile device .

The mobile device can for example center the map view on the geographic area when the current location object is tapped or otherwise selected. In some implementations the zoom level of the map can be adjusted based on the accuracy or precision of the location data or the technology system or service that provided the location data. For example the map can be zoomed in for higher accuracy GPS location data and zoomed out for lower accuracy cell tower or Wi Fi location data. In another implementation the zoom level can be based on the velocity of the mobile device e.g. the map can be zoomed out at higher velocities and zoomed in when the mobile device is not moving. A combination of accuracy or precision and velocity can also be used. If all methods for retrieving location based data fail e.g. both location based service A and location based service B fail and there are no other systems or services available for determining or estimating the current position of the mobile device an error can be displayed to the user and no geographic area is displayed on the map . The error can for example contain a message to the user informing them of the failure and the possible reason for the failure.

The current location object can be selected for example to activate the estimation and displaying of the geographic area on the map to get directions to or from the estimated current location i.e. the centroid of the geographic area to send the estimated current location of the mobile device to a friend e.g. so that the friend can go to the same location or to create a bookmark for the estimated current location to name a few examples.

The circle outlining the geographic area can for example have animation or be motionless. The circle can for example change color e.g. user defined colors or pre programmed colors on the mobile device change distinctive features e.g. switch between crosshairs and ticks or have moving distinctive features e.g. the ticks change position . The circle could for example have white space overlaid on top of the map directly around the perimeter or some combination of features. In some implementations the contrast of the circle s color oscillates or pulses to differentiate the circle from the map .

In some implementations the geographic area can be based on data from the most recent query to the Wi Fi base station device . The geographic area could also for example be based on historical data of where the mobile device recently was located. For example if the geographic area was last updated a short time before the newest activation the previous location can be used to identify the new location. Continuing the example if the previous current location showed that the user is in California but the new location 30 minutes later would show a current location in Florida an error can be displayed on the mobile device .

For example the first geographic area from can be determined using access points and the second geographic area from can be determined by cell tower . If the first geographic area is determined to be wholly contained within the second geographic area the first geographic area can be used as geographic area and be presented on the mobile device . If the first geographic area is determined to be at most partially contained within the second geographic area the second geographic area could be used as geographic area and be presented on the mobile device .

Some examples of the first geographic area being at most partially contained within the second geographic area include the access point being moved or the access point and the cell tower having a partial overlap of geographic areas e.g. the first geographic area is on the edge and partially outside of the second geographic area . Other examples of the cause of geographic areas and being different would be for other positioning technologies systems or services that have varying levels of accuracy or precision such as a GPS and a radio tower.

In some implementations the scaling of the map can be different based on the geographic area selected the technology system service used to determine or estimate the geographic area or some other requirement. For example if the first geographic area determined using access points as described above is selected to be presented as the geographic area from the scaling can be larger than if the second geographic area determined using cell tower was selected to be presented as geographic area . The scaling of the map can for example stay the same when the current location object is selected. Continuing the example if the default zoom level determined to be used on the mobile device is close to the currently used zoom level the zoom level can remain unchanged e.g. if the default level is a street zoom and the current zoom level in on a city view no change is made. If the current zoom level is a state view and the default level is a street view the map can for example be changed to a street view.

The line width of the circle around the geographic area can be changed based on the zoom level or the line width can stay the same. For example the line width can get larger or smaller when zooming in closer to the map. The change to the line width and or to lengths of the crosshairs tick marks or the like on the circle can be based on an exponential algorithm a linear algorithm or some other algorithm.

The start location and end location can be swapped with a switch object . For example the switch object can be used to make the end location the new start location and the start location the new end location.

In some implementations the user can for example remove the current location bookmark from the start location if a different start location is desired with a remove start location object . Alternatively the user can manually enter a new location as the start location using the keyboard . In other implementations the user can select the current location bookmark or another location bookmark from the Bookmarks list as the start location. The remove start location object can be replaced with a start bookmarks list object not shown similar to the end bookmarks list object if the start location is empty. Once the start location and end location have been entered the route object can be selected and directions and optionally other information for a route from the start location to the end location can be displayed on the map e.g. the map .

The route of the directions between the start pin and the end pin can be highlight or depicted in some other way to clearly show the route. In some implementations the start pin has a street flag that displays the name of the street on which the start pin is placed. The street flag can have an object that is user selectable. Selection of the can display an interface to allow the user to change the display of the route to show turn by turn directions or to select other options to name a few examples.

The menu presented with the selection of the map view object can contain user selectable objects including a drop pin object and a show traffic object . Map views for the map can be changed with a map object a satellite object and a hybrid object . A list object can also be displayed.

The show traffic object can display traffic related information on the map . For example roads with heavy traffic can be highlighted in red on the map . The map object can select a basic background e.g. just streets highways etc are displayed for the map . The satellite object can select a satellite view of the map to be presented. The satellite view can contain terrain such as trees hills mountains buildings etc. The hybrid object can have a combination of the basic background and the satellite view presented on the map . For example terrain information is displayed with road information overlaid on top.

The list object can for example be used to display a list of one or more businesses landmarks addresses or other locations located in the area displayed on the map or in the vicinity of the current geographic area . In some implementations the list of businesses can be a scroll list or the list can be overlaid on top of map e.g. the names and locations of businesses can be displayed on the map . In some implementations the businesses etc. in the list can be organized by name or by street. In some implementations the businesses landmarks etc. are ordered by a location based service from which the information regarding the businesses landmarks etc. are received. The location based service can sort the list based on various criteria e.g. popularity relevance to a search query entered by the user of the device etc. . Selection of the list object can change the zoom level of map so that too much information is not displayed on the map e.g. if the user is in a densely populated area the map can be zoomed in more than if the user is in a rural area .

In some implementations when the list object is selected while a directions mode is active e.g. the map is showing direction for a route the list that is displayed is a list of the turn by turn directions for the route.

The drop pin object can for example allow the user to drop a pin or other position marker on the map . When the user drops a pin on a map e.g. map a special drop pin bookmark is placed in the Bookmarks list. In some implementations the map can have one custom drop pin at any time. In some other implementations the map can have more than one dropped pin at any time. The user can drop a pin on the map to mark and to keep track of an arbitrary location. For example the user received a current location of a friend and wants to place a pin on the map where their friend is located. The user can use the dropped pin to get directions from the current location of the mobile device to the location of the dropped pin e.g. their friend s location. In the case of multiple dropped pins the user can use the dropped pins to get direction from one arbitrary location to another arbitrary location.

In some implementations the add to bookmarks object can create a bookmark in the Bookmarks list for the current location of the dropped pin . When the bookmark is added to the Bookmarks list the special dropped pin bookmark can for example be removed from the Bookmarks list or the special dropped pin bookmark can remain in the Bookmarks list.

The directions to here object can bring up the directions interface for getting directions to the current location of the dropped pin . For example if the dropped pin is placed at a location that the user needs to get back to at a later time the user can double tap on the dropped pin when they need directions. Continuing the example if the user has the estimated current location e.g. the centroid of an estimated geographic area selected selection of the directions to here object can bring up the directions interface with the estimated current location filled out as the start location and the end location as the dropped pin . This can allow the user of the mobile device to easily get back to another location they were at recently or to get to a friend s location to name a few examples.

The directions from here object can bring up the directions interface and allow the user to select or enter an end destination. The directions from here object can for example be chosen when the user is giving directions to a friend located at the dropped pin . The directions from here object can be selected continuing the example and a bookmark e.g. a home bookmark with the home address of the user of the mobile device or a manually entered location can be chosen as the end location. The directions to here object and the directions from here object can also be used to provide route information to or from the dropped pin for a doctor s appointment or a sporting event to name a few additional examples.

The remove pin object can allow the user to remove the currently selected dropped pin from the map . In some implementations the dropped pin is unique e.g. there is only one dropped pin on the map at any time and in other implementations there can be more than one dropped pin on the map at any time. The user can select the remove pin object if the location of the dropped pin is no longer needed e.g. the location of the dropped pin has been added to the Bookmarks list with the add to bookmarks object .

In some other implementations there can be more than one dropped pin. In this example both the drop pin object and the replace pin object can be visible in the menu presented by selection of the map view object . The user could for example name the dropped pins to keep track of them on the map .

The directions interface can also be entered when the user selects the directions to here object . In this case when the directions interface is displayed the location of the dropped pin is filled in as the end location .

The disclosed and other embodiments and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The disclosed and other embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the disclosed embodiments can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The disclosed embodiments can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of what is disclosed here or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what being claims or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understand as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

