---

title: Plasma fluid modeling with transient to stochastic transformation
abstract: The invention relates to the simulation method and apparatus used in plasma modeling. It includes a method to transform transient formulations of the phenomenological plasma model into a quasi-stochastic spatial formulation. Specifically, the invention aids in decreasing computational time for the modeling of plasma in a plasma processing system, particularly those involving two different time-based parameters. The invention is particularly described in connection with plasma simulations used for the optimization dual-frequency capacitively-coupled plasma etching systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103492&OS=08103492&RS=08103492
owner: Tokyo Electron Limited
number: 08103492
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081009
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 094 719 filed on Sep. 5 2008 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to the modeling of plasma distribution properties in the design and optimization of plasma processing systems. More particularly the invention relates to a system and a method for modeling the distribution within the chamber of a plasma processing system of plasma density plasma species or other plasma properties. The invention is particularly useful in the design and optimization of dual frequency CCP etching systems IPVD deposition systems and other plasma processing or plasma enhanced processing systems.

Advanced plasma tools have been using very high frequency power sources or combination radiofrequency RF and direct current DC power supplies to advance greater control over the plasma formation process and performance. Recently for example capacitively coupled plasma CCP reactors have employed dual frequency DF power delivery to control the energy and density of the ions and radicals at the surface of a wafer being processed. In such reactors the effectiveness and the quality of the process being performed depends on the distributions of this energy and of the various particle species in the processing chamber particularly near the wafer surface. Inductively coupled plasma ICP reactors such as ionized physical vapor deposition iPVD reactors employ combinations of gas and coating material species plus energy introduced from a number of different sources within the geometry of a processing chamber. In these systems the material and energy distributions that affect the process being performed are reached after initial parameters are established transient behavior has subsided and the system has stabilized. However the physics of this process has not been fully understood and has been the subject of continued theoretical and experimental investigations.

Plasma modeling and numerical simulations play in an important role in understanding plasma behavior in these systems. Modeling and simulation methods can play important roles in the development and optimization of plasma equipment and related plasma processes.

While in the last decade computing systems have greatly increased capabilities for numerically modeling complex and robust plasma chemical systems like etching systems for example central processing unit CPU speed multi core architecture memory resources and large size data storage capacities the computational time required for a full numerical simulation is often on the scale of many hours and in some specific complex cases can be several days. Most computing systems and software are not yet ready and or capable for parallel computing for a variety and specific tasks.

For example even with the simplest plasma model e.g. inert argon gas with a basic geometry etching system a computer simulation of the plasma density distribution can take several hours 2 6 hours to converge if the model includes mutually coupled mass transport equations heat and energy balance equations and electromagnetic EM wave propagation equations of 100 MHz i.e. RF cycle on a 10 ns time scale . To generate a full transient solution on a system excited by a lower frequency EM wave would require yet longer CPU times.

Computational time becomes even longer when more complex chemistry number of reactant species and or number of participating reactions and higher resolution reactor geometry are modeled. Computing time increases yet again if a transient solution is desired when a pulsed process is investigated by simulation or when a process is operating on multiple frequency scales such as in the DF CCP etching system. Multiple frequency scales or other multiple time based factors increase computational time because electron and ion transport properties within the plasma must be solved at both time scales. For example the first frequency of the DF CCP etching system can be 100 MHz corresponding to a 10 ns time scale and the second frequency can be 1 2 MHz corresponding to a 1 s time scale . Thus the DF CCP etching system must be solved for both the 10 ns and the 500 ns or 1 s time scales. The computational time is related to the product of the number of iterations that each solution requires.

If the interactions between the ion flux and the processed wafer are considered which can be over the time scale of several thousand RF cycles the number of iterations and computational times can increase drastically.

Thus there is a need to develop fast methods that would reduce computational real time in complex chemistry and geometry plasma systems. The fast algorithm and or method could apply to solving numerically by finite elements modeling FEM methods multiple frequency applications pulsed plasma processes sequential processing contamination studies feature profile evolutions or developing industrial applications for etching or deposition technologies in plasmas.

Further there is a need to develop and invent new fast algorithms for technological plasma simulations and modeling. The simulation procedure should be practical and efficient for aiding in process and or hardware development for serving as an operational and predictive flexible tool and for generating outputs as close as possible to the development needs and workflow in real time. Thousands of wafers are processed by the technological process on a daily basis thus a large amount of experimental data related to hardware and software performance is readily available. Simulation procedures should be competitive in the rate of generating results to provide the ability to correlate correct or change the technological process in real time. This can represent large material and technical resource savings.

According to principles of the present invention a computer method is provided for simulating plasma density distribution within a plasma reactor that is responsive to at least two variables of different time bases. The computer method includes executing computer program codes according to a process of approximating transient sheath behavior of the plasma occurring in the plasma reactor in response to a variable having a first time basis and performing on a spatial character that is based upon the probability function a time domain simulation of the transient plasma sheath behavior occurring in the plasma reactor in response to a variable having a second time basis. The behavior is approximated by defining a model domain that is characteristic of the plasma reactor constructing a probability function for a time dependent variable within the model domain and transferring the time dependent variable into the spatial character. In certain embodiments the performing is carried out to arrive at a steady state plasma density distribution.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention a computer method is provided for simulating plasma density distribution within a capacitively coupled plasma reactor having a dual frequency power source coupled to the plasma where transient sheath behavior of the plasma occurring in the plasma reactor at a first frequency of the dual frequency power source is approximated and a time domain simulation of the transient plasma sheath behavior occurring in the plasma reactor is performed on the spatial character at a second frequency of the dual frequency power source.

In certain embodiments of the invention the constructing includes random time sampling of the time dependent variable and constructing a probability function of a predetermined plasma parameter response to an incremental unit of a time dependent variable within the model domain. In some embodiments of the invention the defining includes establishing at least one initial value and at least one boundary condition for the model domain.

A plasma reactor optimized in accordance with the simulation performed by the computer method of the invention is also provided. For example a dual frequency plasma etching reactor optimized in accordance with the simulation performed by the computer method of the invention is provided.

A computer program product is also provided having computer readable program codes embodied in the medium that when executed causes a computer to execute the method of the invention. A simulation apparatus is also provided having a calculating unit programmed with the computer program product.

Turning to the drawings wherein like numbers denote like parts throughout the several views illustrates a hardware and software environment for a computing system that may include an integrated circuit device hereinafter ICD consistent with embodiments of the invention. The computing system for purposes of this invention may represent any type of computer computer system computing system server disk array or programmable device such as multi user computers single user computers handheld devices networked devices etc. The computing system may be implemented using one or more networked computers e.g. in a cluster or other distributed computing system. The computing system will be referred to as computer for brevity sake although it should be appreciated that the term computing system may also include other suitable programmable electronic devices consistent with embodiments of the invention.

The computer typically includes at least one processing unit illustrated as CPU coupled to a memory along with several different types of peripheral devices e.g. a mass storage device a user interface including for example user input devices and a display and a network interface . The memory may be comprised of dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM non volatile random access memory NVRAM persistent memory flash memory at least one hard disk drive and or another digital storage medium. The mass storage device is typically at least one hard disk drive and may be located externally to the computer such as in a separate enclosure or in one or more networked computers one or more networked storage devices including for example a tape drive and or one or more other networked devices including for example a server . The computer may communicate with the networked computer networked storage device and or networked device through a network . As illustrated in the computer includes one processing unit which in various embodiments may be a single thread multithreaded multi core and or multi element processing unit as is well known in the art. In alternative embodiments the computer may include a plurality of processing units that may include single thread processing units multithreaded processing units multi core processing units multi element processing units and or combinations thereof as is well known in the art. Similarly memory may include one or more levels of data instruction and or combination caches with caches serving an individual processing unit or multiple processing units as is well known in the art. In some embodiments the computer may also be configured as a member of a distributed computing environment and communicate with other members of that distributed computing environment through the network .

The memory of the computer may include an operating system to control the primary operation of the computer in a manner that is well known in the art. In a specific embodiment the operating system may be a Unix like operating system such as Linux. The memory may also include at least one application or other software program configured to execute in combination with the operating system and perform a task. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that other operating systems may be used such as Windows MacOS or Unix based operating systems for example Red Hat Debian Debian GNU Linux etc.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention whether implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component algorithm program object module or sequence of instructions or even a subset thereof will be referred to herein as computer program code or simply program code. Program code typically comprises one or more instructions that are resident at various times in memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by at least one processor in a computer cause that computer to perform the steps necessary to execute steps or elements embodying the various aspects of the invention. Moreover while the invention has been and hereinafter will be described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments of the invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the invention applies regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the invention. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives tape drives optical disks e.g. CD ROM s DVD s HD DVD s Blu Ray Discs among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links.

In addition various program code described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application or software component within which it is implemented in specific embodiments of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature. Furthermore given the typically endless number of manners in which computer programs may be organized into routines procedures methods modules objects and the like as well as the various manners in which program functionality may be allocated among various software layers that are resident within a typical computer e.g. operating systems libraries Application Programming Interfaces APIs applications applets etc. it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the specific organization and allocation of program functionality described herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the environment illustrated in is not intended to limit the present invention. Indeed those skilled in the art will recognize that other alternative hardware and or software environments may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

With the computing system described in some detail an exemplary physical system to be modeled is described. The system to be modeled and simulated includes an etching apparatus described in the plasma model and can be a DF CCP etching system such as those taught in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 997 962 6 426 477 and 6 576 860 each incorporated herein by reference in its entirety however the necessary details will be described specifically herein. This system is selected because its nominal complexity renders it suitable for illustration purposes. It should be understood that the principles described herein are applicable to a wide variety of other plasma processing systems. Other examples of plasma processing systems and plasma sources that are described with the aid of computer simulations are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 273 533 and 6 523 493 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2005 0160985 each expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The wafer support is made of aluminum having an oxide surface and can include several features such as heating and chilling elements not shown .

The wafer support is surrounded by a baffle plate arranged around the wafer support . An inner portion of the baffle plate is affixed to the wafer support . The baffle plate serves to facilitate the uniform flow of process gas from a processing volume of the process chamber above the wafer to an exhaust volume in the lower portion of the process chamber from which it is exhausted by an exhaust pump .

A shower head is arranged at the top of the process chamber for introducing a gas from a gas source . The shower head is attached to the ceiling of the process chamber through an insulating support made of alumina and a cooling member made of aluminum. An upper electrode is fixed to the bottom of the shower head and is made of a conductive material such as single crystalline silicon. The upper electrode serves as the outlet plate of the shower head and includes a plurality of delivery holes through which a gas within the shower head can be delivered into the process chamber above the wafer on the wafer support . The upper electrode should be approximately the same in size as the lower electrode represented by the wafer support .

The process chamber further includes a shield ring near the upper electrode and made of an insulating material such as quartz. A second insulating ring can be made of a fluoride based resin and positioned between the top of the shield ring and ceiling of the process chamber . Generally the frequency of the RF for the upper electrode should be much greater than the frequency of the RF to the lower electrode represented by the wafer support .

The upper electrode and the lower electrode represented by the wafer support are each respectively connected to individual power sources or RF power supplies . Each RF power supply is respectively connected through a matching network to the upper electrode and the lower electrode represented by the wafer support . Generally the RF power supply for the lower electrode will operate at a lower frequency such as 2 MHz from about 1 MHz to about 5 MHz . The RF power supply for the upper electrode will operate at a higher frequency such as 100 MHz from about 10 MHz to about 200 MHz .

The DF CCP system includes a control system not shown operable to govern the RF power supplies and to operate the other sub systems of the system to perform a plasma etch process on the wafer .

In operation the DF CCP system will generate a capacitively coupled plasma in the processing volume for etching the wafer upon the wafer support according to a first embodiment of the present invention by which for example an oxide film such as SiOis etched on the wafer .

In performing an etching process in the DF CCP system a wafer is positioned upon the wafer support and the processing volume is set to a predetermined vacuum. One or more process gases including Ar N CFand others is supplied from the gas source at a predetermined flow rate. The one or more process gases are exhausted at the exhaust volume by the vacuum exhaust pump . Typical pressures are in the range of from 1 to 20 mTorr up to about 300 mTorr .

After the vacuum is established the upper electrode is supplied with an RF energy having a frequency of 100 MHz and a power of e.g. 2 kW from the RF power supply . The lower electrode represented by the wafer support is supplied with an RF energy having a frequency of 2 MHz and a power of e.g. 1 kW from the RF power supply . The RF power applied to the upper electrode generates a plasma between the upper electrode and the wafer support while the RF power to the lower electrode represented by the wafer support provides a self bias on the wafer for directing the etchant ions within the plasma onto the wafer . This combination of lower and higher frequency RF energies creates an immediate and stable plasma.

Within the plasma electrons are energized by the high frequency RF field. As the high energy electrons diffuse through the plasma the high energy electrons will undergo non elastic collisions with molecules of the process gas. These collisions can result in the generation of radicals cations and or anions by the dissociation of the process gas wherein the generating of these species will depend on the particular gas the energy of the high energy electrons and the number of collisions occurring between electrons and a particular gas molecule. Additionally a portion of the dissociated radicals anions and cations may undergo recombination into the process gas molecules.

Cation etchant ions of gas from the plasma are attracted by a negative bias on the wafer support such that the cation etchant ions are incident onto the wafer . As a result the silicon oxide SiO film on the surface of the wafer can be etched at a uniform etching rate that is determined in part by the composition density and distribution of the plasma in the processing volume and physical parameters such as the geometric electric and chemical parameters of the process chamber and the DF CCP system .

When the etching is complete the controller stops the supply of RF energy to the upper electrode and the wafer support and stops the supply of the process gas into the process chamber whereupon the wafer can be removed from the process chamber .

Existing between the plasma and the upper and lower electrode there is a plasma sheath. The plasma sheath properties are usually considered to be a vacuum.

While the basic components of the DF CCP system have been described in some detail it would be understood than additional features or geometries could be included within the simulation model.

With the DF CCP system now described with some detail the simulation according to an embodiment of the present invention for modeling of the distribution and other parameters of the plasma and the computer method for such modeling will now be described. The plasma to be simulated is specified in a mathematical coordinate system called the simulation domain. The simulation domain used herein is two dimensional and is constructed with axial symmetry however multiple dimension systems are also possible. The plasma for example can be modeled in a manner described by Lee et al. Modeling electromagnetic effects in capacitive discharges 17 1 16 2008 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The program code to simulate the plasma may be executed as part of or executed on behalf of a software suite application command or request. In some embodiments the program code may be incorporated with or executed on behalf of device simulation software. In a specific embodiment the program code may be incorporated with or executed on behalf of a version of COMSOL application software suite as distributed by The COMSOL Group of Burlington Mass. In alternative embodiments the program code may be incorporated with or executed on behalf of mathematical software such as a version of Fluent by ANSYS Corp or Mathematica by Wolfram Research Inc.

The conventional transient method of modeling the plasma is shown in . This method can for example model transient behavior that leads to steady state solutions of various plasma properties. To begin the method and in accordance with steps and configuration settings initial conditions boundary conditions and parameters of the etching system are entered into the start of the simulation program. These initial parameters and settings are utilized within various subsequent steps as shown.

After the simulation domain and initial parameters are set the simulation begins at step wherein the simulation domain is entered. This simulation domain involves solving the transient domain behavior for the time based variables to arrive at a steady state solution of the plasma. In the DC CCP system this involves solving equations that describe the system for each of the time based variables which in the case of the system are CCP power that has a first frequency of for example 100 MHz and the substrate bias power that has a second frequency of for example 2 MHz in a series of nested loops.

The transient behavior based on the CCP power at the first frequency is iterated in a first and inner loop over a time interval sufficient for convergence to a steady state solution which for the 100 MHz frequency is found to be a time interval of from 0 to approximately 1 10 microseconds in 0.1 nanosecond increments for a total of about 10 000 to 100 000 iterations. The transient behavior based on the bias power at the 2 MHz frequency is iterated in a second and outer loop over a time interval also deemed sufficient for convergence. Where the first frequency is much larger than the second frequency this is found to be one complete cycle of 500 nanoseconds calculated in 10 or 15 degree increments for example for twenty iterations of 25 nanosecond. The solution for the system with the two time bases thus requires about 250 000 to 2 500 000 iterations that each involves solving of all of the equations describing the system.

Execution of the inner loop begins with calculating the RF power deposition within the plasma as in step using the configuration settings Block the initial settings Block and the boundary conditions Block . One manner of calculating the RF power deposition is by an Electro Magnetic solver for Maxwell Equations in a simple format having 2 D axial symmetry i.e. electric field with components in the r z plane and a magnetic field having only an azimuthal component . As such the RF power deposition can be computed from 

Once the iteration step on the calculation of the radiofrequency field and power deposition is complete the gas flow is calculated in step . This can be accomplished from steady state Navier Stokes equations assuming a low Reynolds number and laminar flow in 2 D axial symmetry geometry. The total stress tensor formulation is given by 

Turning now to iteration step the temperature of the gas is calculated in accordance with energy conservation. As noted above the gas molecules are heated source term Q due to the non elastic collisions between gas molecules and RF field energized electrons. Thus the gas temperature T is computed through a heat transport by a gas convection and heat conduction module EQUATION 6 where k is Boltzmann constant and c and k are gas heat capacity density and thermal conductivity of the gas mixture respectively.

With the gas flow and temperature calculated the local time iterative scheme can begin at step . As noted above the upper electrode is powered by a 100 MHz RF frequency which corresponds to a 10 ns time scale. As a result the iterations to simultaneously solve the equations of step through step occur at 0.1 ns intervals until a transient convergence of the intermediate values of the electron temperature electron density and radical densities is achieved. This iteration process can typically continue at about 10second or 100 s intervals within the internal time of the model. Specifically the iterative calculations include the following steps and equations.

In step the electron or ion density is calculated by an ambipolar drift diffusion approach with a transient mass balance equation for i type of ions 

Finally in step the neutral species transport within the plasma is calculated from the mass balance equations EQUATION 9 where Dis the diffusion coefficient of the k th particle and nis the k particle and where k all neutral species of the reaction. The generation and recombination of the positive etchant ions is given by 

where nis the electron nis the j particle and are the recombination rates due to collisions with electrons R forward and R backward are the rate constants due to collision with species nor n and vis the electron velocity.

As indicated above iteration steps are repeated at approximately 0.1 ns intervals until the transient solutions converge. Typically the iterations involve calculations of steps for electron temperature electron density and radical densities to converge. Convergence usually occurs within an internal model time of between 1 s and 10 s at which time the iteration scheme computation proceeds to loop switch which involves recalculation of all steps .

Throughout step to step the local constraints and convergence criteria of step can be changed or adjusted to aid in the convergence of the mentioned parameters.

If convergence does not occur at step the new iteration sequence will start again at Step through Step under the satisfaction of the global constraints and convergence criteria at step . The process begins again at step with these new criteria.

When the electron density for the first frequency has converged then the RF cycle at the second frequency is computed in the outer loop at phase steps that are less than 5 of the RF cycle duration that is phase modulated by 10 to 15 steps with the process of steps through are repeated for each iteration of loop . Typically steps through can take about 4 hours to about 6 hours to complete the coupled iteration scheme computation using a dual core PC at 2 3 GHz. Thus a full transient solution for a dual frequency system can take nearly 100 hours.

To decrease the computational time needed for achieving a solution the transient model is converted to a stochastic model as generally shown in and in accordance with the present invention.

Turning now to the method begins with defining the simulation domain according to one embodiment of the present invention. The simulation domain defining the characteristics of the etching system will include time dependent variables that are dependent upon the chemicals materials or geometries of the plasma. Often the simulation domain may contain at least one or more time dependent variables or sub domains for differing chemicals materials and or geometries. That is for each sub domain the time dependence of the variable in each point within the sub domain should be a homogenous transient formulation i.e. have similar time dependence differing only in phase for various points. Otherwise the simulation domain is a heterogeneous transient solution and should be divided into two or more sub domains of homogeneous transient formulations.

For example as illustrated in the simulation domain D can include points x z and x z shown to differ in their time dependence of a particular variable. Thus points x z and x z will exist in first and second sub domains D D respectively. While only two sub domains Dand D within the simulation domain D are shown it would be understood that more sub domains are possible.

A time dependent function for the time dependent variable of each sub domain can be determined by empirical data or by analytical derivation and are represented by the graphs versus time within .

Returning again to and specifically to Step where a probability function for each time dependent function is determined wherein the probability function is a statistical distribution of the values of . The probability function can be determined from the known analytical expression of the transient dependence of the particular variable by measured or empirically established transient dependence hypothetically derived or measured directly. As seen in each of a separate sub domain may have a different statistical distribution shown in graphs versus .

Continuing with and step the probability function is normalized to ensure that an occurrence of all transient values corresponds to the probability equal to 1. In other words the probability function is multiplied by a normalizing constant according to 1 EQUATION 11

This will ensure that the area under the versus curve see should be equal to 1. The normalized probability function will then be given by 

With the probability function now normalized the method proceeds to step of with reference made to . In step the interval of the function values that is is subdivided into n subintervals wherein the size of each subinterval will be given by 

Turning again to and specifically to Step wherein the characteristic values are arranged into corresponding strings B wherein the length of Bn is given by EQUATION 14 where nand nare the number of points within the simulation domain in the x and z axes respectively and each member within the string will equal the value of .

In step of and further in the values within each are reassigned randomly into the points of the corresponding sub domain. Once all of the points of the original simulation domain are randomly reassigned values from the respective then the resultant array is a stochastic simulation array and is ready to undergo simulation as described in .

Described herein is a method and an algorithm for converting a transient to spatial stochastic formulation for enhancing the computation of plasma fluid models. The computer method may be encoded on a computer usable medium and provided in the form of a computer program product. The system of when programmed with the computer program product is a simulation apparatus that includes a calculating unit programmed to calculate a probability function as described in connection with and a simulation unit programmed to perform a simulation of transient plasma sheath behavior as described in connection with .

While the invention has been illustrated by a description of various embodiments and while these embodiments have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention of the applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Thus the invention in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details representative apparatus and method and illustrative example shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of applicants general inventive concept.

