---

title: Two-tier random backoff and combined random backoff and transmit power control in wireless networks
abstract: Systems and methods for two-tier backoff interval randomization are presented. An initial message transmission can have both a chip level and an access cycle duration level backoff applied to avoid potential collisions. Additionally, improved transmit power calculations and the random backoff can be combined to further improve the probability of a successful message reception and decoding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08265683&OS=08265683&RS=08265683
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08265683
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080807
---
Embodiments of the invention generally relate to communication systems. More particularly the invention relates to power control and random backoff control for access probes in communication systems.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xRTT 1x and 1xEV DO standards 1xEV for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations or access terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Conventionally each mobile station monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile station and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are conventionally used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile station. For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like as is known in the art. Generally there are two types of power control for the reverse link open loop and closed loop power control. The open loop power control conventionally occurs prior to the mobile terminal establishing contact with a base station. The closed loop control occurs after the mobile and the base station are in communication and the base station can measure the received power levels and feedback power level adjustments to the mobile terminal.

In the open loop condition the reverse link power for an initial communication signal e.g. access probe from the mobile terminal to the base station can be determined by monitoring specialized signals from a base station or access point. For example in CDMA systems a pilot signal can be use to estimate the channel condition and then determine a power estimate for transmitting back to the base station. The accuracy of the channel conditions and power estimation can greatly impact performance of the system particularly in terms of latency of the system. For example 1x and 1xEV systems will transmit an access probe at a first power level based on a power control algorithm. If the first access attempt does not succeed then the probe is resent at increasingly higher power levels until it is successful or the power level maximum is reached.

In addition to the message loss due to power related issues e.g. channel fading time varying ROT etc. access channel losses can also occur because of access probe collisions which may be the case in geographically dense group calls. Losses that are caused due to the fading of the wireless channel can be minimized by increasing the transmit power of access probes. Losses due to probe collisions over the Access channel can be mitigated by ensuring that probe transmissions that are synchronized with respect to each other do not transmit their probes at the same time.

Accordingly a method and system for jointly determining the transmit power of the access probe and the random backoff interval over which the access probe can defer its transmission can improve the system performance by reducing delays due to unsuccessful access probe transmission for geographically dense calls in wireless communication systems such as CDMA2000 1X A and 1xEVDO networks.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for random backoff and joint power control of access probes in a communication system.

Systems and methods for two tier backoff interval randomization are presented. An initial message transmission can have both a chip level and an access cycle duration level backoff applied to avoid potential collisions. Additionally improved transmit power calculations and the random backoff can be combined to further improve the probability of a successful message reception and decoding.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs base station transceivers BTS base stations BS or more generally access points. An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to a PC card external or internal modem or wireless phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Additionally although exemplary embodiments of the invention are described in terms of a wireless system and specific technologies such as CDMA 1x and 1XEV system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to the illustrated systems. For example embodiments of the invention can include any system that uses a signal from an access point to estimate channel parameter and uses that estimation to control power in the reverse link. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that signals transmitted over many mediums can be considered to have channel parameters.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carrier a core network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages conventionally sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Conventionally the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is conventionally connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is conventionally a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

As used herein access terminal includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units personal digital assistants PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is conventionally between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN .

Paging can be used to notify an access terminal e.g. a wireless device that a communication directed to that terminal is available. Conventionally the access terminal monitors a non traffic channel e.g. control channel access channel to check for paging directed to the access terminal and to receive power control signals and or pilot signals that can be used to determine an initial power level of an access probe. Further as discussed in the foregoing the access probe s transmit power is determined by measuring a received signal strength e.g. pilot signal from a base station and estimating the forward link path loss. It is assumed that the path loss for the reverse link will be similar so the access terminal can use this information to determine the access probe transmit power. The first transmission on the access channel may be in response to a page from the base station or to initiate a voice or data call. To avoid interfering with other access terminals the initial power is conventionally set low and then the power is increased on successive attempts until the base station acknowledges the signal or a time out is reached.

For comparison to embodiments of the present invention a conventional sequence of access probes is illustrated in . The first probe is transmitted at an initial power Pinit during a first access channel slot. The probe waits for acknowledgement from the access point e.g. base station or for an acknowledgement timeout to occur. Then a random backoff time is determined before the next access probe is sent. As illustrated the second access probe and subsequent access probes and will be sent using increasingly higher transmit powers until an acknowledgement is received a maximum power is reached or the access process timeout occurs.

A reference diagram that illustrates an exemplary access procedure over the access channel in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . As illustrated an exemplary access procedure for embodiments of the invention differs from the standard specified procedure in one aspect in that a random backoff operation is performed even before the transmission of the first access probe. Additionally the initial transmit power e.g. P is determined based on the channel load in embodiments of the invention. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can use both the initial random backoff and the enhanced transmit power determination to increase the probability of successful receipt of the access probe.

Embodiments of the invention can use two tier random backoff scheduling that includes both a chip level and access cycle duration ACD level random backoff. Further power level control can be combined with the two tier random backoff to further improve system performance. Aspects of each will be discussed in the following sections. Additional details regarding some of these features are included in co pending U.S. patent applications Ser. No. 11 364 148 filed on Feb. 27 2006 entitled Backoff Control For Access Probe Transmission In Communication Systems and Power Control In Communication Systems Ser. No. 11 363 670 filed on Feb. 27 2006 having the same assignee as the present application and each application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In a conventional CDMA2000 or 1xEVDO network the RAN has the ability to decode one access probe in a single access cycle duration ACD with high probability e.g. 98 if the one access probe was the only access probe transmitted in that ACD. However when N probes are transmitted within an ACD and they are less than 2 chips apart then the probability of decoding a single access probe amongst N probes decreases sharply. In a conventional cell of radius 1000 meters the maximum delay offset between any two probes amongst N simultaneous probes is approximately 4 chips which can be determined as 

In general probes collide with very high probability within 4 chips resulting in high loss rates of the access probes. This problem can be avoided by PN randomization or chip level randomization . Since conventional RANs can only decode one access probe in an ACD it is desired to ensure success of a probe when N probes are scheduled for simultaneous transmission or collide. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can use PN randomization to reduce or eliminate access probe failures due to collisions.

For example let N probes transmit in a given access cycle duration ACD at time t 0. Let each probe apply a random delay offset in multiples of C chips in the interval 0 R C where the value of R and C may be predetermined. For example the value of R can be in the range of 2 to 8 and the value for C can be in the range of 4 to 8 chips.

The probability of successfully decoding a single access probe when N probes perform PN randomization can be represented as W N R . A probe will be successful i.e. received and decoded with high probability e.g. 98 if it is received at the RAN base station at least C chips earlier than the other probes. The probability of this occurrence is a lower bound to W N R and is given by 

In the foregoing equation PER is the Probe Error Rate on the first attempt. For example in the case of N 2 R 4 and PER 0.02 the probability of receiving one probe ahead of the other probe is at least 0.98 R R 1 i.e. 

In the absence of PN chip level randomization each AT will start transmitting at the start of the access cycle duration e.g. T 0 26 67 ms 53.34 ms etc. and collide with each other thereby reducing the chance of a successful decode at the RAN. However using PN randomization according to embodiments of the invention each AT delays its probe by a random delay offset e.g. 0 4 or 8 chips from the start of the access cycle duration boundary as illustrated in . Accordingly this chip level randomization allows for greater chip separation and can improve the likelihood of success of a single probe significantly even if the probes are transmitted in the same slot ACD.

The probability of successful receipt and decoding of an access probe is significantly high for a large range of values of N. However the actual probability of success of a probe may even be higher since it is possible that a probe may be decoded albeit with lower probability when it is transmitted at the same time chip level synchronization with other probes.

It is noted that in the above analysis it was assumed that all the N handsets were geographically equidistant from the RAN. Since in most network deployments the cell radius is less than 2 kilometers the maximum delay offset between probes is expected to be within 8 chips a suitable value for C can help eliminate the likelihood of probes overlapping each other within a window of C chips. For instance if C is set to a value greater than 8 chips then regardless of the location of handsets with the cell the gains of PN randomization are achieved since any two probes will be offset by at least a few chips a condition that is adequate for successful decoding of an access probe.

Collisions can occur on the access channel whenever two or more access probes start transmitting at the same time. This can be particularly probable in a geographically dense call region and or when access attempts may be highly synchronized e.g. in group communications . For example in a group communications network a large number of access terminals may be simultaneously paged and attempt to access the network. In general access terminals that get a page message may get synchronized with respect to each other within a time window e.g. in an 80 msec. window of time when transmitting the page response message.

As previously discussed conventional systems do not perform a random backoff at the chip level or ACD level during the initial transmission of the access probe. Accordingly the probability of collisions on the initial access probe is greater than in subsequent access attempts. Embodiments of the invention use a two tier chip and ACD level random backoff in the initial and subsequent transmissions to improve the probability of at least one successful access probe.

In one embodiment of the invention one or both of the two tier random backoff intervals can be a predetermined constant. For example the chip level interval R and the random backoff interval variable D can both be set to predetermined values. These values can be based on a system design considerations such as expected loading e.g. expected value of N average or maximum delay constraints sensitivity of the base station receivers etc. However to further enhance the probability of the access probe being successfully received and decoded the ACD level random backoff can be determined based on the channel load as will be discussed in the following description.

The dependence of collision probability on the load on the access channel and the random backoff interval can be determined in closed form. These results can be used in the development of an adaptive backoff algorithm that ensures successful delivery of access probes over the access channel.

For example let N denote the number of access terminals that have a probe to transmit or probes to be transmitted over the access channel at time t 0. Each access terminal randomly defers its transmission by RT access cycle durations where 0 RT D 1. The random backoff time RT can take integer values and can be uniformly distributed in the interval 0 D 1 . In one embodiment D can be fixed to a pre specified value. In this case two probes will only collide with each other if their random backoff times RT are the same on the first access attempt. Collisions can also occur on subsequent access attempts if the access probes transmissions start at the same time.

Accordingly the probability of M probes colliding in exactly K slots can be denoted as P N D . The number of collisions in each of these K slots can be given as I i i . . . i where i i . . . i M. Then 

The foregoing illustration results if the BTS is only able to decode exactly one probe per access cycle duration then a collision will occur if two or more probes start transmissions simultaneously e.g. i 2 for all k 1 K and K M 2 . However if the BTS is able to decode exactly J access probes transmitted in the same access cycle duration then the foregoing equation can be modified by adding the constraint i J 1 for all k 1 K and K M J 1 in the determination of P N D . Accordingly the results can be expanded to systems that allow for simultaneous decoding of the access probes.

In the following section the impact on delay in successful delivery of an access probe as a function of the load on the access channel is analyzed for varying values of the random backoff duration. These results provide valuable insight to the development of the backoff algorithm in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

To facilitate an understanding of the following disclosure definitions for various terms used therein will be provided. For example the delay incurred by the first successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Minimum Delay. Note that the minimum delay will impact latency sensitive applications. The delay incurred by the last successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Maximum Delay. The 50th and 80th percentile delay are defined as the delay experienced by the N 2 and 0.8N successful access probe respectively. The terms ProbeBackoff and D may be used interchangeably where ProbeBackoff D 1.

Additionally the following terms are described to aid in understanding the aspects of the invention presented herein.

Further in the following illustration the following configuration parameters are assumed for the access channel.

The delay incurred in transmitting access probes over the access channel can be analyzed as a function of the load on the access channel for different settings of D. The delay incurred by the first successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Minimum Delay. The delay incurred by the last successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Maximum Delay.

Each data point in was computed by averaging over 500 runs. For the case of N 1 the Minimum Delay 33.33 msec which is the lower value since the preamble payload is equal to 20 slots. The Minimum Delay is approximately 150 160 msec for all values of N 2. This is because in the default setting the first access attempt always results in a collision because there is no random backoff before the first attempt. Since the first successful probe is generally successful in the second access attempt the average value of can be determined as Minimum Delay 2 Preamble Payload ACMProbeTimeout 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration Alignment with nearest cycle boundary 5 

In a specific embodiment using the values noted above this calculates as Minimum Delay 2 33.33 26.67 0.5 4 26.67 12 1.67 166 msec.

Alignment with the nearest Access Cycle boundary can result in an additional delay of 12 slots. Additionally the average delay incurred as a result of performing a random backoff is not always equal to 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration. 6 It can be considered a function of the backoff interval length and is conventionally less than the value of equation 6 for D N. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the value of D can impact the delay and D may be bounded by Dbased on system delay sensitivities.

However for all values of N 2 the first successful access probe incurs an average delay of 87 msec which is significantly less than 166 msec. This is because performing a random backoff operation prior to the first access attempt results in a significant decrease in access channel collision probability and as a result at least one access probe is generally successful in the first access attempt. Following the first access attempt both these experiments depict the same behavior as ProbeBackoff 4 for all retransmissions in either case.

The Minimum Delay value directly affects the initial latency of the system. Accordingly in latency sensitive applications such as group communications the initial latency should be reduced as much as possible. Additionally for the group communications applications and other latency sensitive applications the 50th percentile delay should be considered as it can impact some target access terminals and cause loss of some initial media traffic. The 50th 80th and the Maximum Delay values are uniformly lower in as compared to for all values of N 2. Accordingly aspects of embodiments of the invention such as performing the random backoff procedure prior to the first access probe can yield significant reduction in delay.

The foregoing description discussed the ACD level backoff interval variable D in terms of channel load and is discussed in further detail in the co pending application entitled Backoff Control For Access Probe Transmission In Communication Systems referenced above. The two tier randomization allows for further reduction and refinement of the ACD level random backoff. For example as illustrated in the process can start by establishing a random chip level backoff based on a number of chips C per interval and a random interval selected from a number of intervals R . A random ACD level back off is also determined . The message can then be transmitted at a time designated by the chip level random backoff and ACD level random backoff . As discussed above the ACD level determining ACD level random backoff interval variable D as a function simultaneous probes N 

By incorporating a chip level backoff the value of D can be reduced while still achieving a high probability of a successful access probe. For example assume the ACD level backoff interval variable D is set to N without any chip level random backoff. If the access probes are randomly distributed over R intervals at the chip level the value of D can be recalculated to D N R because the chip level backoff improves the probability of a successful probe even if the access probes are transmitted in the same slot access cycle duration as discussed in detail above. The determination of D can also be lower than D N R if the RAN has the ability to decode multiple probes within an ACD as discussed below. Further alternative adjustments to D could be made using R such as scaling R by a factor e.g. 0.5 . In some embodiments D can be rounded up to the nearest integer should the calculated value be a non integer.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention include a two tier randomization where the ACD level random backoff includes determining a backoff interval e.g. D based on channel load of an access channel. The ACD level random backoff time is selected from the range defined by the backoff interval e.g. 0 D 1 ACDs . The initial transmission of the access probe can then be delayed for the random backoff time. The value of D can be set equal to N R where N is a number of access terminals attempting to access the access channel or access probes and D is used to establish the backoff interval as 0 D 1 access cycles.

In one embodiment D can be established as a non decreasing function of a number N of access probes being sent. For example D can be set equal to N R when N R is less than a predetermined value and wherein D is equal to predetermined value for N R greater than or equal to the predetermined value see e.g. and . In another aspect as further illustrated in D is set to a value greater than or equal to N R for low values e.g. N

Since the value of R will have less of an impact on the maximum or average delay experienced by a user it may be fixed at a predetermined level and then the value of D can be adjusted based on that value of R. Alternatively the value of R and D both could be adjusted to achieve a desired probability of a successful probe.

The backoff interval variable D can be establishing based on a quality of service constraint. For example the quality of service constraint is defined as 

As noted above some of the techniques in the foregoing ACD level backoff had the persistence test bypassed. However in other embodiments persistence can be used in combination with the chip level randomization for the two tier random backoff. In the foregoing it was assumed that a random backoff procedure is performed prior to the first access attempt. However it is possible to accrue benefits similar to that achievable via the random backoff with alternate randomization procedures such as the persistence test pass procedure as defined in the 1xEV DO Rev. A Air Interface specification as defined in cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification 3GPP2 C.S0024 A Version 3.0 dated September 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. For example setting the persistence probability to 1 N is approximately equivalent to setting D N discussed above in terms of average collision rate performance on the access channel. The collision probability upon performing a persistence test is derived in the following equation. Assuming that each AT will pass the persistence test with probability q and defining vector i i . . . i with idenoting the number of ATs colliding in the jaccess cycle duration following the start time t 0 the probability of M probes colliding is given as 

Power control influences the ability for the probe transmission to overcome the channel parameters such as Rise over Thermal ROT fading etc. As illustrated in the open loop power is conventionally increased for each subsequent probe transmission. However the appropriate transmission power also is influenced by message parameters such as the message length L which is not considered in conventional power control algorithms. The two tier random backoff control influences the probability of collisions for a given number of simultaneous channel contenders. Both of these aspects can influence the eventual success of the message e.g. access probe receipt at a given base station for a given set of conditions. Conventional systems fail to adequately address each of these controls and also fail to address the joint determination of these controls to achieve a desired message error rate MER .

A conventional equation to estimate the initial transmit power in decibels in the open loop case is defined in the IS 95 standard as Const NOM PWR INIT PWR 9 where Pis the received power from the base station Const is a default constant e.g. 73 dB for cellular and 76 dB for PCS systems NOM PWR and INIT PWR are adjustment factors that can be set by the system operator. The NOM PWR and INIT PWR can be broadcast from the base station along with other data in an access parameter message. Additional details of the conventional access probe and initial power estimates are not provided as these are well known in the art and can be obtained from references such as Yang CDMA RF System Engineering Artech House Inc. 1998 pages 85 88 and 141 145 which are incorporated herein in their entirety. Generally Pin the foregoing equation 9 can be considered as a combination of the detected received power from the base station and a correction factor that can include constants and other system compensating factors e.g. Const NOM PWR and INIT PWR as discussed above . Additionally the correction factors discussed in the following can be used in combination with or in place of the conventional system parameters.

The existing open loop power control algorithms such as described above and used to transmit access probes over the access channel in CDMA2000 1X A and 1xEVDO e.g. IS 856 standard networks are prone to inaccuracies and can result in underestimation of the transmit power for access probes. This underestimation can lead to an increased loss rate of access probes over the access channel particularly on the first access attempt as it is transmitted at the lowest power see e.g. . Existing open loop power control algorithms often determine a transmit power that is lower because of inaccuracies in estimating the path loss between the access terminal and the access point base transceiver station BTS crude estimation of the Rise over Thermal ROT at the BTS and failure to take the size of the access message into account.

Embodiments of the present invention can overcome at least some of the problems associated with the existing open loop power control policy so that a target success rate on the first access attempt is achieved. Thus embodiments of the invention can use a correction factor or term to improve the initial power estimate and the target success rate on the first access attempt.

In another embodiment of the invention the transmit power estimation of an access probe can be improved by adjusting the transmit power estimation using the access probes size e.g. as measured in frames . For example larger sized messages can be transmitted at higher power than smaller ones to compensate for potential channel ROT variations during the course of message transmission. Accordingly message size can be used as a correction factor to the access probe power level determination.

For example when transmitting at a rate of 9.6 Kbps an access probe can potentially be as large as four frames long. Each frame can be 16 slots in length. Thus loss of even a single frame can lead to loss of the entire access probe. As a result the transmit power for access probes that span multiple frames should be greater than the transmit power used for a single frame at the same data rate.

Transmissions over the reverse traffic channel R TCH for example for voice over IP VoIP messages can be operated at a target frame error rate FER of 1 . Similar target FERs can be expected of access probe transmissions as well. The wireless channel in cellular networks is generally uncorrelated between frame durations since the coherence time of the wireless channel for most pedestrian vehicular speeds is less than an frame duration . As a result the frame error process can be modeled as an independent and identically distributed i.i.d. random process and in particular by a Bernoulli random process. For an access probe of size L frames achieving a message error rate MER of 1 will use a target FER L of 1 1 10 Generally the MER can be considered to be related to the frame size as illustrated in . As can be seen from the message error rate rises at increasing rates as the frame size increases.

Further referring to a graph is provided of PER which is equal to FER versus the pilot SNR Ec p Nt per antenna for different wireless channels with power control disabled therefore R TCH transmissions are identical to Access Transmissions . Accordingly it can be determined that to achieve a target MER 1 for L 2 FER 2 0.5 and for L 4 FER 4 0.25 . Based on the results illustrated in this would imply an additional 0.5 dB and 1 dB increase in transmit power is needed respectively in order to achieve a target MER of 1 over an entire range of vehicular speeds. If the operating FER is 10 then FER 2 5.13 and FER 4 2.6 . For these error rates a correction factor of 1 dB and 2 dB for L 2 and L 4 respectively can be used to achieve acceptable performance. These correction terms can be determined directly from or could be derived from lookup tables.

It will be appreciated that similar calculations simulations and or empirical data can be obtained for other system parameters and conditions that will allow the determination of the correction factor based on the FER. The FER can be established based on the message size L and the target message error rate MER as discussed in the foregoing e.g. as in Eq. 10 . In general those skilled in the art will appreciate that a small correction term can be used for messages that span L frames where L 1. The magnitude of the correction term is a function of the number of frames spanned by the access probe as well as the target MER that is desired.

As discussed above the conventional open loop power control algorithm does not take the size of the message into consideration. All messages regardless of their length are transmitted at the same signal power. It also assumes that the channel is likely to be constant over the transmission duration of the message. In contrast embodiments of the present invention transmit longer messages at a higher minimum SNR value which can be represented as 1 . . . 1 . 11 Conventionally 1 is about 15 dB. Accordingly the transmit power can be adjusted based on the message size using the foregoing equation or using a fixed gain based on the message size e.g. an additional 0.5 dB or 1 dB increase in transmit power as discussed above .

Further the open loop power control algorithm for the reverse enhanced access channel R EACH conventionally overestimates path parameter G by dividing the total received pilot signal power from all the access terminals in its active set by the transmit power of its associated access point. Due to this over estimation of G the transmit power P L can often times be set to a value that is less than the minimum power that will ensure successful delivery of the access probe where P L is determined as 

In the above formula L can be predetermined at the access terminal based on the target MER constraint the size of the access probe L and the channel correlation coefficient. The path parameter G can also be determined accurately by the access terminal by dividing the received pilot signal power from its associated access point by the transmission power at the access point or BTS . The transmission power can be specified for example in the Enhanced Access Parameters message or can be assumed to be a predetermined value which is generally set to about 10 20 Watts. The signal interference and thermal noise Ican be determined by assuming that the interference power incident at the access terminal is the same as the interference at the access point BTS .

As discussed in the foregoing information to enhance the transmit power determination can be transmitted from the wireless network. For example the Rise over Thermal ROT at the access point BTS can be transmitted to the access terminal so the actual ROT value is available at the access terminal to include in the correction factor and provide a more accurate determination of the desired initial transmit power and subsequent transmit power if needed. Further the number of users in a group call can be included in an initial call set up message from the group communication server which can serve as an estimate of the channel load N or as an upper bound on the channel load estimate.

Alternately the ROT can be determined at the AT by means of information transmitted on the number of users with traffic channel allocations and using a parameterized curve that estimates the dependence of ROT at the BTS as a function of the number of users with traffic channel allocations such as illustrated by the curves in . It will be appreciated that the curves illustrated in can be reduced to lookup tables mathematical approximations and the like to facilitate determination of the ROT at the access terminal.

For example referring to the mean ROT at the BTS is an increasing function as the number of access terminals increase. Further the data rate also impacts the ROT for a given number of access terminals as illustrated. This information is available for example in a paper entitled CDMA Capacity and Coverage published December 2006 by ADC Telecommunications Inc. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The number of active access terminals who are given traffic channels can be derived by the access terminal AT by means of signaling information e.g. the QuickConfig message in 1xEV DO . This information can be used by the AT to determine the expected ROT value at the RAN. The AT can then make a correction to its power value by using the expected ROT value which can be derived from the stored curves table and information regarding the number of ATs active in a given sector. Accordingly the ROT value at the BTS can be determined without the BTS transmitting this information to ATs via broadcast messages.

A simple numerical experiment to determine the amount of overestimation in G by access terminals when they are scattered across a large scale cellular network can illustrate this problem. Specifically consider a cellular network having seven cells each having an access point BTS and associated access terminals as illustrated in . The path loss between the access terminal and the access point can be considered to be purely a function of the Euclidean distance between them in this example the path loss exponent for this example was assumed to be 2.8 . The transmit power of each access point on the pilot channel was set to 20 64 Watts e.g. 20 Watts distributed equally over 64 orthogonal Walsh codes one of which is used for F PICH . For this network topology G computed by conventional open loop algorithm ranges from 0 223 greater than the actual value with nearly half the mobiles overestimating G by 47 . As a result of this overestimation in G the transmit power P L determined by the open loop algorithm is less than the desired value by at least a factor of 1.5 for half the mobiles in the network and as many as one quarter of the mobiles underestimate their transmit power by a factor of 2. In the foregoing example the path loss was assumed to be purely a function of the distance.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can further include determining a transmit power based on a predetermined gain factor that is applied to an initial calculated transmit power. For example the initial calculated transmit power can be based on conventional algorithms the adjusted power calculations described above or any other initial transmit power determination. The predetermined gain can be based on empirical data such as on the order of 1.5 to 2 times as discussed above. Alternatively the predetermined gain can be adjusted to ensure that the transmit power is approximately the maximum transmit power. Additionally the predetermined gain factor may not be applied if a received power from a base station is below a threshold value. Accordingly only a subset of the ATs will have their transmit power increased and that subset can be determined to be those ATs that are in close proximity to the base station and or have good channel characteristics as they would be the most likely to have a successful probe transmission. By limiting the ATs that have an increased transmit power the overall interference will be reduced in comparison to having all ATs transmitting at higher power. Further this will compensate the ATs that would conventionally be transmitting at lower power e.g. the ATs that have the higher received power and better channel conditions so the average transmit power of all ATs in a sector would not increase as much as applying the gain to remote ATs or ATs with poor channel conditions.

As discussed in the foregoing message error rate MER can be a useful metric in determining a desired transmit power. In addition MER can be used to establish a basis for determining the joint determination optimization of the power and backoff control including both PN randomization and or ACD level randomization . As discussed above the power control is influenced by the channel conditions and the message length. The backoff control was influenced by the instantaneous load on the channel. The following sections will discuss the combination of these aspects into a common optimization scheme because messages transmitted e.g. over the R EACH are prone to loss either due to fast fading of the wireless channel due to sudden changes in ROT etc. and or collisions as is the case in group calls or high density calls.

Losses that are caused due to the fading of the wireless channel can generally be minimized by increasing the transmit power of access probes. This was discussed above and a series of optimizations were presented to achieve a target success probability on the first attempt. However the foregoing discussion did not directly consider the impact of channel loading and or the random backoff interval in determining the transmit power.

Losses due to probe collisions over the R EACH can be mitigated by ensuring that probe transmissions that are synchronized with respect to each other do not transmit their probes at the same time but perform a random backoff procedure even before each access attempt including the first one. This was also discussed in the foregoing sections and the effect of performing a random backoff interval on the collision probability as well as delay experienced by access probes was highlighted. Increasing the random backoff interval increases the average delay incurred by the access probe but guarantees a higher success probability.

In order to ensure that access probes are successful with high probability e.g. 80 95 on the first access attempt the losses incurred as a result of the two aforementioned problems should be limited. Accordingly joint consideration of transmit power of the access probe and the appropriate random backoff interval is considered so that the is limited to within a predetermined value such that e 13 where is the probability of all probes failing and eis a scalar value that can be used to establish a quality of service constraint by the system operator. For example the lower the MER the better the overall service for a given network.

Generally the MER for an access probe over the R EACH because of channel fading induced errors can be shown to be 1 1 14 where FER is a function of the SNR i.e. of the link and is the channel correlation coefficient and L is the number of frames. Further assume that exactly N access terminals are perfectly aligned in time at t 0 and have an access probe of length L frames to transmit over R EACH. Defining the probability of an access probe colliding given that N probes are contending for R EACH and performing a random backoff over the interval O D 1 R EACH SLOTS is given by the function PR N D i i . . . i .

Embodiments of the invention apply the power determinations and or the PN or chip level backoff algorithm and quantify the gains via a weighting function W S . After determining the weights the random backoff algorithm can be used to determine D as a function of N. For example assume that there are S simultaneous access probes are transmitted. Each AT applies the power control optimizations when transmitting the probe. Each AT also introduces a random backoff delay in the order of multiples of C chips in a pre determined interval of 0 R C chips. Note that R can be predetermined. When performing backoff at the chip level each AT randomly delays the probe transmission by 0 or C or 2C or 3C . . . or R C chips. A value of R 3 to 5 and C in the range of 4 to 8 can be used in some embodiments.

Using simulations it is possible to determine the probability of success of a probe when S probes are transmitted with joint optimizations. The probability of success denoted by W S is used as a coefficient in the equation P N D determining an improve backoff algorithm. Specifically the equation can be given as 

In one embodiment of the invention the backoff probe interval variable D can be determined based on a capture probability of the system. In embodiments capture probability can be used as an alternate to simulations to determine W s . The term capture probability refers to the condition that even in the presence of collisions there is a probability that at least one or more probes or messages will be successfully decoded. The capture probability and the potential for collisions are impacted by both the channel load N backoff interval D and the transmit power channel conditions. For example assume it is determined that the system should be limited to a condition where it is highly probable that only two access probes will collide then D will be set to approximately 0.5 N or considering the two tier backoff D can be set to 0.5 N R. Using this setting the transmit power can be determined to increase the capture probability for the condition of two synchronized access channel transmissions i.e. two probes colliding as discussed herein.

For example let exactly two access probes be transmitted at the same data rate in an access cycle duration. Let the received power per chip of the access probes at the BTS be Pand Prespectively where P P. Let the total interference plus noise power in mW at the BTS be denoted by I n. Then a conventional system will successfully decode one access probe if 

Additionally using a number of potential collisions permissible and channel load N the backoff interval variable D can be determined. For example as the channel load increases increasing the value of D can maintain a desired number of probable collisions e.g. setting D 0.5 N allows for two collisions or factoring in the chip level randomization D 0.5 N R. The number of potential probable collisions can also be used as a basis for determining an additional power correction based on the capture probability analysis discussed above. By increasing the transmit power to ensure a high probability of capture of at least one probe message the value of D can be reduced to reduce the maximum delay seen by the system. For example D may be set to etc of N or N R as the system can tolerate increased collisions e.g. 2 3 4 collisions and still decode the probe message transmitted. If the calculated power level is acceptable then the transmit power and random backoff interval can be set for transmission of the probe.

Tolerating increased collisions conventionally results in increasing the transmit power. As discussed above the increased transmission power will increase the probability that at least one probe will be successfully received even in the presence of a collision due to the capture effect. Accordingly the increased power level can be checked to determine if it exceeds a desired threshold or maximum permissible transmit power. If so the backoff interval setting can be increased e.g. a higher value of D to mitigate the collision probability as the load will be randomly distributed over D intervals. Accordingly the power increase can be recalculated based on the new parameters.

As discussed in the foregoing embodiments of the invention can improve system latency which can benefit all applications but is particularly important to delay sensitive applications. A group communication system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Conventionally a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communications system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal such as ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality wireless video cameras still cameras audio devices such as music recorders or players laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an access terminal AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example the request may be transmitted over the air to one or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network RAN . However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to distributed network .

Referring to one or more group communication servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to distributed network . Since group communication server can be connected to the distributed network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Conventionally a group communication server controls communications between the wireless devices of group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN .

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is conventionally connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the details of a group communication system will not be further discussed.

In embodiments of the invention the group communication server can be used to aid in the determination of the channel load. For example during the initial call request information regarding the number of group members active group members or an estimate of active group members can be sent to the access terminals. The ATs can then use the information in determining the channel load. For example the number information can be used directly as the channel load N can be scaled by a factor e.g. 0.8 or can be used as an upper limit to verify other channel load determinations. For example using the information as N the backoff interval value of D can be determined as K N where K is 

It will be appreciated that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

