---

title: System and method for dynamically changing web uniform resource locators
abstract: A web browser is implemented to receive a document from a server. The document may include one or more embedded Uniform Resource Locator (URL) references. The web browser may display the document on a user interface. A user associated with the web browser may determine one or more of the original embedded URL references should be replaced. In response to user input, the web browser may change at least one of the original embedded URL references to a corresponding replacement embedded URL reference and display the document with the replacement embedded URL reference. The web browser may save an association of the original embedded URL reference with the replacement embedded URL reference and subsequently, when receiving the document with the original embedded URL reference, automatically replace the original embedded URL reference with the corresponding replacement embedded URL reference before displaying the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075777&OS=09075777&RS=09075777
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09075777
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080227
---
The World Wide Web provides a system of interlinked hypertext documents e.g. web pages accessed via the Internet. Users typically use a web browser application to retrieve and display the documents which may contain text images video and other multimedia content. Frequently documents contain links e.g. hyperlinks that when selected by a user cause the web browser to retrieve and display other documents.

Viewing a web page typically begins when a user types the Uniform Resource Locator URL of a web page into the web browser or when the user follows a hyperlink to the web page or resource. The web browser initiates a series of communications messages e.g. transparent to the user that cause the web browser to fetch and display the web page. The server name of the URL is resolved into an IP address using a global distributed Internet database known as the domain name system or DNS. The IP address is necessary to contact and send data packets to a web server. The browser requests the resource by sending a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request to the web server located at the IP address. Typically a web page e.g. made up of Hypertext Markup Language HTML text is requested and parsed by the web browser which may make additional requests for images and other files. The HTML tells the web browser how to render the text and images on the screen.

Many web pages will themselves contain hyperlinks to other related pages downloads source documents and other web resources. Frequently the links will point to content controlled by other web sites. Many times web site administrators will change or update their web content resulting in hyperlinks in other documents that may point to content that no longer exists. A hyperlink that points to content that does not exist may be known as a Broken Link or Dead Link and when a user selects these hyperlinks they may receive a Page Not Found error from their web browser.

While the system is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the system to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present system as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limiting to.

Various embodiments of methods and systems configured to allow users of web based content to dynamically change web URLs included within such content are explored in the following discussion. For example a web browser may receive a document with one or more embedded URL references from a server. The web browser may display the document on a user interface. The user associated with the web browser may determine that one or more embedded URL references are incorrect. For example the user may click on a link e.g. implemented as an HTML href tag to another web page and the web browser may respond by displaying a Page Not Found error indicating a Broken Link or a Dead Link . In other cases the user may determine the existing link is wrong e.g. the link may refer to a valid page that differs from the one indicated or suggested by the link or sub optimal e.g. there may exist a better source for information than the page referred to .

The user may find the correct link and interact with the web browser causing the web browser to change one or more of the original embedded URL references to a corresponding one or more replacement URL references in the document source. In some embodiments the change may take place locally e.g. on the user s system as opposed to on the server system from which the document was obtained . The web browser may then display the document with the replacement embedded URL references.

The web browser may save an association of one or more original embedded URL references to a corresponding one or more replacement embedded URL references. For example the association of references may be stored in the web browser s cache or on a storage device. Subsequently e.g. in another session another day or another week the web browser may receive the document lookup the previously stored association and replace at least one or more original embedded URL references with the corresponding replacement embedded URL references before displaying the document on the user interface. Thus the user s replacement URLs may be persistent with respect to subsequent interaction with the document.

The user of the web browser may not have permission to change the document on the web server where the document was retrieved. In some embodiments the web browser may send a request to a web server where the request is to change the original embedded URL reference to the replacement embedded URL reference.

The web server may receive the request to change one or more original embedded URL references in a document to a corresponding one or more replacement URL references. In response to determining the change request is valid the web server may change the one or more original embedded URL references to the corresponding one or more replacement embedded URL references in the document and store the document with the changes. Subsequently when the document is requested the server may send the document with the replacement embedded URL references.

In the following discussion a general overview of a system for retrieving and displaying web documents is first provided followed by a general overview of online user communities that may be employed in conjunction with the document system. Various techniques for implementing dynamic changing of URLs within such a system are then discussed. Finally an exemplary embodiment of a computer system that may be configured to implement various aspects of the disclosed techniques is described.

Generally speaking a web document may correspond to any document that is accessible via a URL that is associated with the document. Such a document may typically be retrieved according to a URL and displayed by an Internet enabled application such as a web browser for example. In one embodiment the web document may be formatted in Hypertext Markup Language HTML . HTML is the predominant markup language for web pages. HTML describes the structure of a document by specifying certain text as headings paragraphs lists forms tables embedded images and other objects. HTML includes labels known as tags or elements that describe the appearance and semantics of a document. HTML may include scripting code e.g. JavaScript that may affect the behavior of web browser . In some embodiments the web document may be in a format different than HTML. Examples include Hypertext Preprocessor PHP scripting language Active Server Pages ASP Extensible Markup Language XML or any other script data format or language that may have an embedded reference to another document and may be interpreted by an Internet enabled application such as a web browser.

A web document may include one or more hyperlinks. A hyperlink may be an embedded reference or navigation element in a document to another section of the same document or to another document. An embedded reference may be a link embedded in an object such as hypertext or a hot area. A hot area may be an invisible area of the screen that covers a text label or graphical image. A hyperlink may start at a source anchor and point to a destination anchor. The most common type of destination anchor is a Uniform Resource Locator URL . A URL may point to a document e.g. web page or a position within a web page or another resource.

Web browser may typically be configured to display a hyperlink in some distinguishing way e.g. different color font or style . A user may activate the link by clicking on it with a mouse or by performing another type of selection activity via a user interface. In response web browser may display the target of the link. In an HTML embodiment the HTML code of the document may contain some or all of five main characteristics for an embedded reference. They include 1 a Link Destination which identifies the pointed to URL 2 a Link Label which identifies the visible clickable text displayed for the hyperlink 3 a Link Title which is an attribute that adds information about the link 4 a Link Target which defines where the linked document will be opened and 5 a Link Class or Link ID which assigns a unique name to the element.

where the href field corresponds to the Link Destination. The HTML example is only one example of how an embedded reference may be formatted. Other formats languages and or scripts e.g. other than HTML are possible.

Normally a user associated with web browser will click on a link label and web browser will attempt to open the target anchor pointed to by the link destination URL. If the URL points to a document or resource that does not exist the web browser may display a Page Not Found error.

Web browser may be a software application configured to display a web document. Web browser may be implemented on a personal computer server cell phone PDA or any other suitable device configured with a user interface display. Web browser may enable a user to display and interact with text images videos music and other information that can be included in or obtained via a web page. Some popular web browsers include Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Safari Opera and Netscape although the term Web Browser may correspond to any suitable Internet enabled browser or application. Web browser may be used to access information provided by the World Wide Web e.g. via the Internet or information provided by private networks. Web browser may communicate with web server and community server via hypertext transfer protocol HTTP secure HTTP HTTPS Transport Layer Security TLS or another protocol to fetch web pages. Typically web browser initiates a request by establishing a Transmission Control Protocol TCP connection to a particular port e.g. port on a host e.g. web server .

Web browser may be implemented in a procedural programming language e.g. C or C or an object oriented programming language e.g. Java or C or another programming or scripting language executable on a computing device. In various embodiments web browser may utilize HTML JavaScript AJAX SOAP ASP .NET XML TCP IP UDP or another suitable technology. Web browser may be configured to communicate with other systems via network . In some embodiments web browser may be located on the same computer system as web server . In other embodiments web browser may be located on a system separate from server and communicate with server via network .

As described above web browser may be configured to utilize scripting code. One example of scripting code is JavaScript . JavaScript is a scripting language that allows a web document author to write functions embedded in or included in web documents. JavaScript may interact with the Document Object Model DOM of the page. The DOM is a platform and language independent standard object model for representing HTML or XML and related formats. JavaScript runs locally within a web browser rather than on a remote server. JavaScript can respond to user actions in ways that HTML cannot. Some web browsers may include a JavaScript engine e.g. interpreter that interprets the JavaScript source code and executes the script. It is contemplated that in various embodiments web browser may be configured to utilize any suitable type of scripting language instead of or in addition to JavaScript .

Generally speaking web browser may provide an environment in which web documents retrieved from web server may be processed manipulated and displayed to a user. For example the DOM representation of a web document may be stored and manipulated within the web browser s environment. The environment of web browser may encompass functionality and or data structures that are native to or built into web browser itself as well as functionality provided by complementary or third party software that is configured to be incorporated within web browser or to interoperate with web browser such as plugins toolbars or widgets for example.

The document environment provided by a particular instance of web browser may be local to that instance of web browser . That is the state of the document within the environment of a particular instance of web browser may not be directly visible to or accessible by other entities such as other instances of web browser or servers although it is contemplated that a particular instance of web browser may be configured to communicate information about the state of its environment to other entries on its own initiative .

It is contemplated that in some embodiments a document may be modified within the web browser s environment. For example as described in greater detail below an original embedded URL reference in a document may be changed to a replacement embedded URL reference within that document. In some cases state information relevant to a document may be persistent within the web browser s environment. For example modifications to a document s content or appearance within the web browser s environment that are made on one occasion may be reflected when the document is retrieved and or displayed on subsequent occasions.

Web server may be configured to service requests from web browser . In some embodiments web server may be configured to listen on a port e.g. port 80 waiting for a client such as web browser to send a request message. When the web server receives a request for a document web server may be configured to access web content to fetch the document and forward the document to web browser . Web server may be implemented as one or more physical systems. Web server may be configured to run special web server software configured to service web browser requests. Examples of popular web server software include Microsoft Internet Information Systems and Apache though any suitable web server software platform may be employed.

Web content may include one or more web pages formatted in HTML or another suitable format. In addition web content may include images videos and documents formatted in formats other than HTML. Web content may be organized and stored as files on a file server as records within a database e.g. a relational database or according to any other suitable organization. Web content may be stored on the same physical system as web server or may be located on one or more separate systems accessible by web server . Web content may be implemented as one or more servers and or as one or more storage devices. Generally speaking documents that are stored within web content or that are otherwise accessible by server to be provided to a web browser s document request may be referred to as being stored within the server environment or as the server s copy of the documents. In some embodiments changes made to the server s copy of a particular document may be visible to some or all users who subsequently request the particular document via web browser .

As described in greater detail below in some embodiments two or more users of web browser may be organized within a peer to peer community a virtual community or an online community. An online community may be defined as a social network of two or more users of web browsers that communicate with one another via network and share an affinity. An online community may have access to their own peer community web content which may include one or more web pages and or other content. In some embodiments a user belonging to online community and associated with web browser may access community server to access peer community web content .

Community server may be configured as a web server similar to web server although configured to serve peer community web content to online community . In some embodiments the features described above with respect to web server functionality or interaction with other systems may apply to community server as well.

In various embodiments network may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between web browser web server web content and peer community web content . Network may correspond to various methods of communication between entities and may include but is not limited to communication via telephone fax email messages e.g. instant messaging voice messages and electronic documents e.g. web page email or file transfers . In general network may represent any method that one entity may utilize to communicate with another entity. While network may be illustrated in a generalized manner one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that network is meant to be representative of a complete communication path between the entities depicted in with a specific type of communication channel. For example network may represent one or more communications channels and may include one or more telecommunications networks as well as various data networks. Network may include network devices such as circuits switches routers hubs and or gateways. Network may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of network including the Internet and or Ethernet LAN via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fiber Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol. Web page content may be transmitted on network using Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTP Secure Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer Protocol SSL Transport Layer Security Protocol TLS or another suitable network transport protocol. In various embodiments the services described herein may utilize cryptographic protocols and algorithms when communicating over network .

In one example of how one embodiment of the system of may work a user associated with web browser may request a document from web server . Web server may retrieve the document from web content and send the document to web browser . The user associated with web browser may select a URL reference to another web page. The target document may no longer exist resulting in the web browser displaying a Page Not Found error. Alternatively the target document may not be the best version of the document to reference e.g. the target of the existing reference may be outdated or the user may know or suspect that a better reference exists . The user may find the correct or desired link and display the original document with the original URL reference. The user may select the existing link and press a key sequence or select a menu item initiating a pop up dialog box within the web browser. The dialog box may allow the user to enter a replacement URL reference. Web browser may replace the original embedded URL reference in the page source of the web document with the replacement embedded URL reference. Web browser may store e.g. locally on the user s system an association of the original embedded URL reference with the replacement embedded URL reference and display the document with the replacement embedded URL reference. When the user selects the reference in the document web browser may retrieve and display the document pointed to by the replacement URL reference.

Subsequently when the user requests the document with the original embedded URL reference the web browser may receive the document from web server and replace the original embedded URL reference with the replacement embedded URL reference and display the document with the replacement URL reference. In one embodiment the replacement URL reference may be substituted for the original URL reference only within the original document for which the replacement URL reference was originally specified. In another embodiment the replacement URL reference may be substituted for the original URL reference within any document or subset of documents in which the original URL reference appears.

In some cases the user may not have permission to change the document on the web server. Web browser may send a request to the web server e.g. where the document was retrieved requesting the original embedded URL reference be replaced by the replacement embedded URL reference.

In some embodiments web server may receive a request to change at least one or more original embedded URL references in a document to a corresponding replacement one or more embedded URL references for example within web content . In response to determining the change is valid the web server may change at least one or more original embedded URL references in the document to the corresponding at least one or more replacement URL references. Determining whether the change request is valid may be accomplished in many ways. In one example an administrator associated with the web server may verify that the original embedded URL reference is broken and the replacement URL reference is correct and then change the document source. In another example the web server may receive one or more requests to change the original URL reference to a replacement URL reference. When web server receives a number of requests equal to a threshold web server may automatically change the original URL reference in the document to the replacement URL reference. In some embodiments weighted values associated with the authority of users making the request may be used to determine when a change request is valid. Some users may have a higher authority level than other users and therefore their requests may be more heavily weighted. For example the past history or reputation of some users e.g. as assessed by their peers and or by the content owner may be such that these users are more trustworthy or credible and that their replacement requests should be given greater consideration as reflected by a weight or other metric of reliability credibility or trustworthiness that may be associated with such users. In another embodiment the recency of the request may be taken into consideration. For example recent requests may be more heavily weighted than old requests and thus may factor more significantly in determining whether to accept a request. Other methods of determining a change is valid have been contemplated.

In some embodiments two or more users of web browser or another suitable client side application may be in a peer to peer community. These peer to peer communities may be known as virtual communities e communities or online communities. An online community may include a group of people that primarily interact using the Internet as a communication media rather than interacting face to face. Many different means are used to facilitate online communities including chat rooms and forums that may utilize text voice video and or avatars.

Frequently online communities share an affinity. In one example some users of web browser may have similar browsing activities as detected by a web tracking system and their membership within an online community may be defined in terms of the similarity in their browsing activity. In another example users of web browser may explicitly identify themselves as sharing an affinity e.g. as dog lovers for example by forming a new community or joining an established community associated with that that affinity. In another example users of web browser may have similar shopping habits e.g. they may browse for or purchase similar items via an electronic commerce web site or portal and their membership within an online community may be defined in terms of the similarity of their shopping habits. Any other type of affinity may be common to the members of an online community and in some instances community members may share little affinity beyond simply being members of that particular community. That is in some instances online community membership may be ad hoc. Various examples of online communities that may be employed in conjunction with the system of are described in greater detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 478 919 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING INTEREST SPACE USER COMMUNITIES and filed on Jun. 30 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. It is noted that in some embodiments some members of online community may be associated with client side applications other than conventional full featured web browsers. For example such members may be associated with standalone applications e.g. instant messaging applications dedicated network aware applications document readers such as Adobe Acrobat Reader etc. that support interaction with various types of documents and other types of network delivered content.

In one embodiment community server may be configured to store and maintain information pertaining to the configuration of an online community such as online community . For example community server may be configured to store information regarding community membership affinity information or other community related information. In some embodiments community server may be configured to facilitate communication among members of online community for example via chat rooms instant messaging or other suitable schemes. Also in some embodiments it is contemplated that the functionality implemented in a centralized e.g. client server fashion by community server may instead be implemented in a distributed e.g. peer to peer or serverless fashion via web browsers and or by applications local to each member of the community.

Community membership may be implemented according to any suitable model. In some embodiments online community membership may be implemented by invitation. For example community server may be configured to determine that various users share an affinity e.g. according to their historical usage of network based content their expressed preferences or other behavioral data and may invite those users to join one or more communities appropriate to their shared affinities. In other embodiments online community membership may be implemented through member self management. For example existing members of communities may moderate community membership to determine whether to allow new members to join or to expel existing members. In some embodiments users may elect to join online communities on their own initiative e.g. through self selection. In one such embodiment an online community may potentially encompass all potential users of web documents e.g. the set of all Internet users .

Generally speaking information conveyed from one community member to some or all other community members may be referred to as notification of the online community. In various embodiments such notification may be conveyed directly to members e.g. in a peer to peer fashion or indirectly e.g. via a server . Such notification may occur in a push fashion such that other members may receive the notification irrespective of whether they actively request it. For example community members may subscribe to receive notifications related to the community such as by communicating a subscription request to community server or another service and may thereafter receive notifications without further action on their part. In some embodiments subscriptions to notifications may allow filtering of notifications e.g. by keyword by an identifier of the origin of the notification or by any other suitable criterion or combination of criteria . In such embodiments a given community member may only receive those notifications that satisfy the subscription filtering criteria rather than all notifications pertinent to the community. Notification may also occur in a pull fashion such that a given member may receive the notification only if it requests it e.g. by polling peers or a server for pending notifications .

In some embodiments only certain users e.g. users associated with web browser B and web browser C may be members of online community whereby only the members of online community may have access to and share peer community web content . Peer community web content may include web documents text video voice or another suitable data type. In one embodiment peer community web content may include all or a portion of the content included in web content along with additional information reflecting changes such as replacement URLs that may be generated by members of online community . For example peer community web content might include a copy of some or all of a document included in web content for which one or more members of online community have submitted replacement URLs. In another embodiment peer community web content may be configured to store information about the differences between an original document as stored in web content and a revised document that reflects replacement URLs. For example rather than store a substantial duplicate of an original web document peer community web content may be configured to store a reference to the original document within web content as well as information detailing how the revised document differs from the original such as the locations and content of replacement URLs within the document.

In some embodiments peer community web content may be stored in a separate distinct repository from web content for example as distinct records stored on a distinct system. In other embodiments peer community web content may be combined with or be the same content as web content . For example peer community web content may be stored on the same system as web content or may be intermingled with web content such as in the form of document metadata. In some embodiments only web browsers in online community may be configured to submit and view dynamically changed URLs or to access peer community web content .

In one embodiment a community member s request for peer community web content may be facilitated by web server . For example a user associated with web browser B may make a request for a web document from web server . Web server may fetch the document from web content and also fetch differences or changes to the document that are unique to online community from peer community web content . Web server may combine the original document retrieved from web content with the changes retrieved from peer community web content and send the results to web browser B. In a variation of the example above web server may send the original web document from web content and the differences from peer community web content to web browser B and web browser B may combine the original document with the differences and display the results on a user interface.

In another embodiment access to peer community web content may be facilitated by community server in a manner that may be transparent to web server . For example web browser B may request an original document from web server which may fetch the document from web content and then send the document to web browser B. Web browser B may also request differences or additional data from community server which may fetch the differences from peer community web content and send the differences to web browser B. Web browser B may combine the original data and the differences and display the results on a user interface. In such an embodiment it may be possible to implement community based features such as community derived replacement URLs for web documents in a manner that is transparent to the source of the content. It is contemplated that many other variations of fetching peer community content are possible.

In some embodiments a request to change at least one or more original embedded URL references to at least one or more replacement URL references for an online community may be sent from web browser to peer community web content . In this case one peer e.g. a user associated with web browser two or more peers or any peer may be authorized to approve the request such that after approval the original embedded URL reference is replaced by the replacement URL reference. Subsequently when the document containing the original embedded URL reference is downloaded from peer community web content and displayed by web browser the replacement URL reference may be included in the document.

In some embodiments one peer e.g. web browser B may make the document with the replacement embedded URL reference available to a selected one e.g. web browser C or more peers. In other embodiments one peer may make the document with the replacement embedded URL reference available to all peers in the online community . In some embodiments peers may share replacement information without sharing entire documents. For example peer community web content may contain metadata differences or changes corresponding to web content . In this example web server may retrieve a web document from web content and apply changes to the document found in peer community web content . The modified or changed document may then be sent to web browser . In this example peers may share replacement information without sharing entire documents.

In various embodiments web browser may be configured to display a dialog box window or pop up to receive user input in order to replace the original URL reference with a replacement URL reference in the page source of the web document as shown in block . Web browser may configured to allow a user to select the URL to change from a list of displayed URLs included in the web document or select the reference with the mouse while pressing a certain key on a keyboard. In various embodiments the replacement reference may modify or annotate any suitable property of the reference such as the targeted document or the link label for example. Web browser may display a dialog box and receive a replacement embedded reference from a user. See the example illustration in . Web browser may interact with JavaScript or another suitable script or language to change the original embedded URL to a replacement embedded URL. In some embodiments the scripting language may have been inserted into the web document by the original author to enable a user to change an original embedded URL and or to enable the user to interact with a third party service e.g. community server community peers or another service to dynamically replace the original URL. In other embodiments the original web document author may not have added a scripting language to the web document. In one such embodiment web browser may be configured to search for all instances of a specific attribute in the web document e.g. all href attributes and display the list in a list box. The user associated with web browser may select one or more references to change and enter the replacement embedded reference into a dialog box in web browser . Web browser may replace selected original embedded URL reference with the replacement embedded URL reference. For example the scripting functionality that implements the user interface through which the user indicates a replacement URL may modify the representation of the document e.g. by modifying the DOM of the document to reflect the replacement URL. The description above is given as one example. Many variations have been contemplated.

As mentioned below in one particular embodiment a web page author may specifically identify references that a user is allowed to dynamically modify for example by denoting such references with a tag other than the HTML standard href tag. In one such embodiment a user may be restricted from modifying URL references other than ones indicated as dynamically modifiable. In other embodiments dynamic URL replacement may be supported with respect to any URL reference that occurs within a document.

In some embodiments support for the URL replacement functionality and associated user interface may be implemented within the functionality of web browser or obtained from a third party source instead of being embedded within the source of the original document. For example in various embodiments web browser may be configured with an add on toolbar widget component e.g. Flash or Active X or a drag and drop object that can be dropped into a displayed web document within web browser for the purpose of changing an original embedded URL to a replacement embedded URL. Web browser may interact with the add on to display some or all URLs within a web document. The user associated with web browser may select one or more original embedded URLs enter a replacement embedded URL and submit the change. Subsequently web browser configured with the add on may change the page source such that the original embedded URL reference is replaced by the replacement embedded URL reference.

After changing the original embedded URL with the replacement embedded URL web browser may store a record of an association of the original embedded URL and the replacement embedded URL. The record of the association may be stored in the web browser s cache an XML file a cookie or may be persisted to a storage device or stored in any other suitable fashion as shown in block . See the description below for regarding one example of the URL association data format. In some embodiments it is contemplated that the record of the association need not be stored on the same system on which web browser executes. For example the record may be stored in a distributed fashion among online community members or the record may be communicated to community server or to a third party service such as a web service.

Web browser may display the document with the replacement embedded URL reference as shown in block . Subsequently when receiving the document web browser may retrieve the record of the association from storage e.g. from the browser s internal data structures or local cache or from a different service or system and replace the original URL reference with the replacement URL reference before displaying the document.

In one embodiment web browser may retrieve another document e.g. different than the original document with the same original embedded URL reference. In this embodiment web browser may replace the original URL reference with the replacement URL reference for the document or any document that contains the original URL reference.

In various embodiments a dref reference may be used in the web document source code to indicate a reference that may be dynamically changed. The dref reference may function the same way as an href reference however the dref reference may also indicate a reference that may be dynamically changed. The dref tag is used as an example other tags have been contemplated.

As described above in some embodiments web server may collect requests to change original embedded URL references to replacement embedded URL references. One or more web browsers may submit a request to web server to change the original document that contains the broken link. The submitted requests may notify the web server that a broken link is in the document. In some embodiments web server may maintain a count of the most frequently requested change requests. For example web server may collect ten requests to change the URL http www.foo1.com to http www.foo2.com and five requests to change http www.foo1.com to http www.foo3.com. When web browser requests a document from web server web server may send the most requested replacement URL references as part of the document e.g. within scripting code . Alternatively web browser may separately request suggested URL replacements for a document from web server .

If the user associated with web browser determines an original embedded URL reference is broken the user may display a dialog box to change the reference as shown in . In this example the most requested replacement URL references e.g. item may be displayed as suggestions for the user to select. These references e.g. http foo2.com and http foo3.com may have been included in the document that was downloaded to web browser e.g. in JavaScript . When the user associated with web browser displays the dialog box to change the original embedded URL reference to the replacement URL reference web browser may interact with the scripting code and may retrieve and display the most frequently suggested links as shown at item . In some embodiments community server or another entity distinct from web server may maintain information regarding suggested replacement URL references. In such embodiments web browser may be configured to request such information from the appropriate entity.

In some embodiments more than one embedded URL reference may be included in a single document. In this case each original embedded URL reference may be replaced by its respective replacement embedded URL reference in the single document. In other embodiments the same embedded URL reference may be included in the same document multiple times. In this case each instance of the original embedded URL reference may be replaced with the replacement embedded URL reference. As mentioned above in some embodiments an original embedded URL reference may occur in multiple different documents and may be globally replaced across the multiple documents e.g. when they are retrieved for display.

As described above in some embodiments a user associated with web browser may be included in an online community. In some such embodiments requests to change URL references may be submitted to peers within the online community. For example such requests may be exchanged among peers in a peer to peer fashion or may be submitted for storage within peer community web content from which they may be centrally accessed. In some such embodiments web browser may present the user an option to submit such a request as shown in block . If the user s response is Yes a request with the URL reference association may be sent to peer community web content as shown in block . In one embodiment requests indicating replacement URLs that are submitted to an online community may form the basis for suggestions received by community members from the community. For example if one community member discovers a broken URL or a sub optimal URL and submits a suggested replacement to the community other members of the community may be notified of the suggestion if they should encounter the broken URL themselves thus benefiting from the collective experience of other community members.

In some embodiments notifications regarding replacement URL references that are conveyed by community members to the online community may include records that are similar or identical to the record of the association between the original URL reference and the replacement URL reference that web browser may store e.g. as described above with respect to . In other embodiments notifications regarding replacement URL references among online community members may be made using records or indications of any other suitable format.

As a result of notifications to the online community web browsers or other client side applications that are associated with users who are members of an online community may receive notifications regarding replacement URL references for various documents. In one embodiment subsequent to receiving such a notification with respect to a particular document from the online community web browser may be configured to receive the particular document e.g. from web server and to automatically replace within the particular document the original URL reference with the replacement URL reference indicated in the notification. Thus in some instances one community member s replacement of a particular URL reference may be propagated to other community members without requiring active participation on the part of the other community members. In some embodiments it is contemplated that community members may select a degree to which they wish to see the effects of other members URL replacements. For example a given community member may allow such replacements from some community members but not others. As described above notifications within the online community may be performed in a push fashion or pull fashion.

In some embodiments different communities may have control over their own replacement URLs such that each online community may have different replacement links respective to their community. For example a web site may have a link to an image captioned The World s Greatest Car which may link to an image of Car X. In this case the link to the image of Car X is the original embedded URL reference. The Car Y online community may replace the original embedded URL with a replacement URL link to an image of Car Y and the Car Z online community may replace the original embedded URL with a replacement URL link to an image of Car Z. When The Worlds Greatest Car link is selected web browsers associated with members of the Car Y community may retrieve and display the image of Car Y and web browsers associated with members of the Car Z community may retrieve and display the image of Car Z.

Thus it is contemplated that through the participation of their members in replacing URLs different online communities may develop different perspectives or views of a particular document. That is community members may be presented with a version of the document that reflects the preferences of their community. If a particular user is a member of more than one online community it is possible that different replacement URLs may be provided for the same original URL from the different communities. In various embodiments conflicts among multiple replacement URLs may be resolved by displaying all or a subset of the replacements allowing the user to prioritize replacements from one community over another or using any other suitable scheme.

As shown in block the request may be analyzed to determine if the request is valid. In one example an administrator associated with web server may analyze the request to determine if the original embedded URL reference is valid. The administrator may check the replacement embedded URL reference included in a request to determine if it is valid for replacing the original URL reference. If the replacement URL reference is valid the administrator may change the document to include the replacement embedded URL reference. In another example web server may be configured to determine the request is valid block when the number of requests to change the original embedded URL reference to the same corresponding replacement URL reference satisfies a threshold e.g. by equaling or exceeding the threshold . The threshold may be an integer value. Web server may detect the threshold has been reached and change the original embedded URL reference to the replacement embedded URL reference as shown in block . In another embodiment the request may be determined to be valid if one or more trusted users of a community make the request. In this embodiment all requests from trusted users may be designated as valid. Trusted users may be flagged by a system administrator or determined based on a history or reliability metrics. When web server detects a trusted user has submitted a request it may determine the request is valid. In another embodiment users may be assigned an authority value such that one user may have a higher authority value than another user and therefore the request from user with the higher authority value may be weighted more heavily than the request from a user with a lower authority value. For example as noted above an individual user such as a community member may be associated with a metric that reflects that user s credibility or trustworthiness and by extension the user s degree of relative authority to propose changes to URLs. In another example the recency of the request may determine the weight of the request such that a recent request may be weighted more heavily than an old request. In other embodiments various other metrics may be employed to determine whether or not a request to change a URL should be honored or ignored.

Additionally it is contemplated that in some embodiments the method of may be implemented by a server other than web server such as community server for example. That is in some embodiments the analysis and validation of requests to change URL references for a particular document may be performed by a system that is distinct from the system responsible for hosting or serving the document. Further in some embodiments the processing of requests to change URL references for a particular document may be performed in a manner that is transparent to the system responsible for hosting or serving the document. For example community server or another system may process change requests and provide replacement URL information to members of an online community entirely independently of the operation of web server such that URL replacement functionality may be implemented without the intervention or knowledge of web server .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC Scalable Processor Architecture SPARC or Million Instructions per Second MIPS Instruction Set Architectures ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory is one example of a computer accessible medium that may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. Program instructions and or data may also be stored for example on a hard disk. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above for web browser and web server as well as any of the methods shown in are shown stored within system memory as program instructions and data storage respectively. In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM Double Data Rate RAM DDR RAM RAMBUS Dynamic RAM RDRAM Static RAM SRAM etc. Read Only Memory ROM . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be provided via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel Storage Area Networks SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices and respectively may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or retrieving data by one or more computer system . Multiple input output devices and may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

Memory may include program instructions configured to implement at least a portion of embodiments of the web browser and web server as described herein and data storage comprising various documents tables databases etc. accessible by program instructions . In one embodiment program instructions may include software elements of the web browser and web server illustrated in the Figures and data storage may include data used in embodiments of the web browser and web server . In other embodiments different software elements and data may be included. Program instructions and or data may be stored for example on various types of memory including hard disks.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of the system as described herein. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices internet appliances PDAs mobile phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals provided via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description. Accordingly the present system may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The various methods as illustrated in the Figures and described herein represent exemplary embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Additionally it is intended that any inconsistency in description between this document and any document incorporated within this document be resolved in favor of this document.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended that the system embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

