---

title: Phenazine compounds and use thereof in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases
abstract: The invention discloses compounds, compositions and methods useful for preventing and/or treating autoimmune diseases and inflammatory diseases. The methods and compositions utilize water-soluble phenazine compounds, or salts, or solvates thereof. These molecules can be delivered alone or in combination with agents which treat or prevent autoimmune diseases and inflammatory diseases such as those caused by arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08273881&OS=08273881&RS=08273881
owner: JJ Pharma, Inc.
number: 08273881
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080116
---
This application is the National Stage of and claims priority to International Application No. PCT US2008 051226 filed Jan. 16 2008 and claims benefit of U.S. provisional Application No. 60 885 164 filed on Jan. 16 2007 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to novel water soluble phenazine compounds and their use in the treatment of autoimmune diseases and inflammatory diseases.

Arthritis from the Greek word for joint is a chronic multifactorial disease induced when the immune system attacks and begins degrading the body s joints. Rheumatoid arthritis RA is characterized by chronic inflammation of the synovium and comes in many forms including calcific periarthritis enteropathic arthritis chronic gouty and hand osteoarthritis hip and knee osteoarthritis thumb Jaccoud s juvenile osteoarthritis oligoarthritis polyarthritis and peripheral psoriatic rheumatoid and septic arthritis. RA is triggered by an immune response generated via the molecular recognition of the T cell receptor on CD4 positive T cells with a complex of disease inducing peptides bound to Human Leukocyte Antigen HLA class II molecules.

Rheumatoid arthritis alone is estimated to affect 1 of the world s population and is twice as prevalent in women as in men. The aging population of developed countries are presents a growing market for arthritis therapies. In the US arthritis and other rheumatic conditions affects about 15 of the population.

Rheumatoid arthritis is associated with the expression of certain HLA class II molecules. It is known that blockade of the interaction between a given class II molecule peptide ligand and T cell receptor inhibits specific T cell responses both in vitro and in vivo. Tumor necrosis factor TNF an inflammation promoting cytokine is found associated with multiple inflammatory events including arthritis and anti TNF therapeutics include Enbrel Etanercept Humira Adalimumab and Remicade Infliximab .

Other therapeutic strategies which are directed at the T cell such as total lymphoid irradiation thoracic duct drainage cyclosporin A anti CD4 monoclonal antibody and other monoclonal antibodies directed at T cell determinants result in some cases in clinical improvement of rheumatoid arthritis but these therapies are also associated with side effects. For instance conventional general immunosuppressives increase the risk of opportunistic infections and cancer.

There is no cure for arthritis or RA at present. Current therapies are aimed at alleviating the symptoms of the disease and arresting its progress using drugs such as Enbrel . Chemotherapeutic agents such as methotrexate cyclophosphamide and cyclosporine have been also used for alleviating symptoms. All of the above treatments have side effect liabilities limited effects on relapse rates and on ability to prevent exacerbation of the disease.

Thus there is a need for new drugs which can be used alone or in combination with other drugs to combat the progression and symptoms of arthritis in particular RA. It has now been found that certain novel phenazine compounds facilitate recovery in subjects suffering from autoimmune diseases. Thus the novel phenazine compounds are useful in the treatment and prevention of arthritis RA and other autoimmune diseases.

The present invention provides compositions and methods for treating or preventing the onset of autoimmune diseases inflammation inflammation diseases metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes and non alcoholic fatty liver disease. The molecules and compositions of the invention can be delivered alone or in combination with additional agents and are used as for the treatment or prevention of autoimmune diseases inflammation diseases and cardiovascular diseases.

Accordingly in one aspect the subject invention is directed to a method for treating or preventing autoimmune diseases in a subject in need thereof. The method comprises administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I II III or IV 

The invention thus provides methods for treating autoimmune disease in a mammalian subject in need thereof the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I II III or IV.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of Formula II and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. The excipient can be suitable for oral administration. Thus the composition may be in the form of a tablet a capsule or a soft gel capsule.

Alternatively the excipient can be liquid suited to intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous administration. Alternatively the excipient may be suited to transdermal administration or buccal administration.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become evident upon reference to the following detailed description. In addition various references are set forth herein which describe in more detail certain procedures or compositions and are therefore incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Unless otherwise stated the following terms used in this application including the specification and claims have the definitions given below. It must be noted that as used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Definition of standard chemistry terms may be found in reference works including Carey and Sundberg 1992 Advanced Organic Chemistry 3Ed. Vols. A and B Plenum Press New York. The practice of the present invention will employ unless otherwise indicated conventional methods of mass spectroscopy protein chemistry biochemistry recombinant DNA techniques and pharmacology within the skill of the art.

The term agonist means a molecule such as a compound a drug an enzyme activator or a hormone that enhances the activity of another molecule or the activity of the a receptor site.

The term antagonist means a molecule such as a compound a drug an enzyme inhibitor or a hormone that diminishes or prevents the action of another molecule or the activity of the a receptor site.

 Alkyl refers to a saturated or unsaturated branched straight chain or cyclic monovalent hydrocarbon radical derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkane alkene or alkyne. Typical alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyls such as ethanyl ethenyl ethynyl propyls such as propan 1 yl propan 2 yl cyclopropan 1 yl prop 1 en 1 yl prop 1 en 2 yl prop 2 en 1 yl allyl cycloprop 1 en 1 yl cycloprop 2 en 1 yl prop 1 yn 1 yl prop 2 yn 1 yl etc. butyls such as butan 1 yl butan 2 yl 2 methyl propan 1 yl 2 methyl propan 2 yl cyclobutan 1 yl but 1 en 1 yl but 1 en 2 yl 2 methyl prop 1 en 1 yl but 2 en 1 yl but 2 en 2 yl buta 1 3 dien 1 yl buta 1 3 dien 2 yl cyclobut 1 en 1 yl cyclobut 1 en 3 yl cyclobuta 1 3 dien 1 yl but 1 yn 1 yl but 1 yn 3 yl but 3 yn 1 yl etc. and the like.

The term alkyl specifically intended to include radicals having any degree or level of saturation i.e. groups having exclusively single carbon carbon bonds groups having one or more double carbon carbon bonds groups having one or more triple carbon carbon bonds and groups having mixtures of single double and triple carbon carbon bonds. Where a specific level of saturation is intended the expressions alkanyl alkenyl and alkynyl are used. Preferably an alkyl group comprises from 1 20 carbon atoms more preferably from 1 to 10 carbon atoms.

 Alkanyl refers to a saturated branched straight chain or cyclic alkyl radical derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkane. Typical alkanyl groups include but are not limited to methanyl ethanyl propanyls such as propan 1 yl propan 2 yl isopropyl cyclopropan 1 yl etc. butanyls such as butan 1 yl butan 2 yl sec butyl 2 methyl propan 1 yl isobutyl 2 methyl propan 2 yl t butyl cyclobutan 1 yl etc. and the like.

 Alkenyl refers to an unsaturated branched straight chain or cyclic alkyl radical having at least one carbon carbon double bond derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkene. The group may be in either the cis or trans conformation about the double bond s . Typical alkenyl groups include but are not limited to ethenyl propenyls such as prop 1 en 1 yl prop 1 en 2 yl prop 2 en 1 yl allyl prop 2 en 2 yl cycloprop 1 en 1 yl cycloprop 2 en 1 yl butenyls such as but 1 en 1 yl but 1 en 2 yl 2 methyl prop 1 en 1 yl but 2 en 1 yl but 2 en 2 yl buta 1 3 dien 1 yl buta 1 3 dien 2 yl cyclobut 1 en 1 yl cyclobut 1 en 3 yl cyclobuta 1 3 dien 1 yl etc. and the like.

 Alkynyl refers to an unsaturated branched straight chain or cyclic alkyl radical having at least one carbon carbon triple bond derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent alkyne. Typical alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyls such as prop 1 yn 1 yl prop 2 yn 1 yl etc. butynyls such as but 1 yn 1 yl but 1 yn3 yl but 3 yn 1 yl etc. and the like.

 Acyl refers to a radical C O R where R is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to formyl acetyl cyclohexylcarbonyl cyclohexylmethylcarbonyl benzoyl benzylcarbonyl and the like.

 Alkylamino means a radical NHR where R represents an alkyl or cycloalkyl group as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methylamino ethylamino 1 methylethylamino cyclohexylamino and the like.

 Alkoxy refers to a radical OR where R represents an alkyl or cycloalkyl group as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy cyclohexyloxy and the like.

 Alkylsulfonyl refers to a radical S O R where R is an alkyl or cycloalkyl group as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methylsulfonyl ethylsulfonyl propylsulfonyl butylsulfonyl and the like.

 Alkylsulfinyl refers to a radical S O R where R is an alkyl or cycloalkyl group as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methylsulfinyl ethylsulfinyl propylsulfinyl butylsulfinyl and the like.

 Alkylthio refers to a radical SR where R is an alkyl or cycloalkyl group as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methylthio ethylthio propylthio butylthio and the like.

 Amide or Acylamino refers to a radical NR C O R where R and R are each independently hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to formylamino acetylamino cyclohexylcarbonylamino cyclohexylmethylcarbonylamino benzoylamino benzylcarbonylamino and the like.

 Aryl refers to a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to groups derived from aceanthrylene acenaphthylene acephenanthrylene anthracene azulene benzene chrysene coronene fluoranthene fluorine hexacene hexaphene hexylene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene octacene octaphene octalene ovalene penta 2 4 diene pentacene pentalene pentaphene perylene phenalene phenanthrene picene pleidene pyrene pyranthrene rubicene triphenylene trinaphthalene and the like. Preferable an aryl group comprises from 6 to 20 carbon atoms more preferably between 6 to 12 carbon atoms.

 Cycloalkyl refers to a substituted or unsubstituted cyclic alkyl radical. Where a specific level of saturation is intended the nomenclature cycloalkanyl or cycloalkenyl is used. Typical cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to groups derived from cyclopropane cyclobutane cyclopentane cyclohexane and the like. In a preferred embodiment the cycloalkyl group is C C cycloalkyl more preferably C C cycloalkyl.

 Cycloheteroalkyl refers to a saturated or unsaturated cyclic alkyl radical in which one or more carbon atoms and any associated hydrogen atoms are independently replaced with the same or different heteroatom. Typical heteroatoms to replace the carbon atom s include but are not limited to N P O S Si etc. Where a specific level of saturation is intended the nomenclature cycloheteroalkanyl or cycloheteroalkenyl is used. Typical cycloheteroalkyl groups include but are not limited to groups derived from epoxides imidazolidine morpholine piperazine piperidine pyrazolidine pyrrolidine quinuclidine and the like.

 Drug refers to a compound that exhibits therapeutic and or prophylactic and or diagnostic utility when administered in effective amounts to a patient or a mammal.

 Ester refers to a radical C O OR where R is alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl substituted cycloheteroalkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroalkyl substituted heteroalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. Representative examples include but are not limited to methyl ester C O OCH cyclohexyl ester C O OCH phenyl ester C O OCH benzyl ester C O OCHCH and the like.

 Ether refers to a radical OR where R is alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein.

 Heteroaryl refers to a monovalent heteroaromatic radical derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single atom of a parent heteroaromatic ring system. Typical heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to groups derived from acridine arsindole carbazole carboline chromane chromene cinnoline furan imidazole indazole indole indoline indolizine isobenzofuran isochromene isoindole isoindoline isoquinoline isothiazole isoxazole naphthyridine oxadiazole oxazole perimidine phenanthridine phenanthroline phenazine phthalazine pteridine purine pyran pyrazine pyrazole pyridazine pyridine pyrimidine pyrrole pyrrolizine quinazoline quinoline quinolizine quinoxaline tetrazole thiadiazole thiazole thiophene triazole xanthene and the like. Preferably the heteroaryl group is between 5 20 membered heteroaryl with 5 10 membered heteroaryl being particularly preferred. Preferred heteroaryl groups are those derived from thiophene pyrrole benzothiophene benzofuran indole pyridine quinoline imidazole oxazole and pyrazine.

As used herein the term patient or subject encompasses mammals and non mammals. Examples of mammals include but are not limited to any member of the Mammalian class humans non human primates such as chimpanzees and other apes and monkey species farm animals such as cattle horses sheep goats swine domestic animals such as rabbits dogs and cats laboratory animals including rodents such as rats mice and guinea pigs and the like. Examples of non mammals include but are not limited to birds fish and the like. The term does not denote a particular age or gender.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable means approved or approvable by a regulatory agency of the Federal or state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia or other generally recognized pharmacopoeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. It can be material which is not biologically or otherwise undesirable i.e. the material may be administered to an individual without causing any undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the components of the composition in which it is contained.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound means a salt that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound. Such salts for example include 

 1 acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or formed with organic acids such as acetic acid propionic acid hexanoic acid cyclopentanepropionic acid glycolic acid pyruvic acid lactic acid malonic acid succinic acid malic acid maleic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid 3 4 hydroxybenzoyl benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 1 2 ethanedisulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid 2 naphthalenesulfonic acid 4 methylbicyclo 2.2.2 oct 2 ene 1 carboxylic acid glucoheptonic acid 4 4 methylenebis 3 hydroxy 2 ene 1 carboxylic acid 3 phenylpropionic acid trimethylacetic acid tertiary butylacetic acid lauryl sulfuric acid gluconic acid glutamic acid hydroxynaphthoic acid salicylic acid stearic acid muconic acid and the like 2 salts formed when an acidic proton present in the parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion e.g. an alkali metal ion an alkaline earth ion or an aluminum ion or coordinates with an organic base. Acceptable organic bases include ethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine tromethamine N methylglucamine and the like. Acceptable inorganic bases include aluminum hydroxide calcium hydroxide potassium hydroxide sodium carbonate sodium hydroxide and the like. It should be understood that a reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt includes the solvent addition forms or crystal forms thereof particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates contain either stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts of a solvent and are often formed during the process of crystallization. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water or alcoholates are formed when the solvent is alcohol. Polymorphs include the different crystal packing arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound. Polymorphs usually have different X ray diffraction patterns infrared spectra melting points density hardness crystal shape optical and electrical properties stability and solubility. Various factors such as the recrystallization solvent rate of crystallization and storage temperature may cause a single crystal form to dominate.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or carrier with which a compound of the invention is administered. The terms effective amount or pharmaceutically effective amount refer to a nontoxic but sufficient amount of the agent to provide the desired biological result. That result can be reduction and or alleviation of the signs symptoms or causes of a disease or any other desired alteration of a biological system. For example an effective amount for therapeutic uses is the amount of the composition comprising one or more phenazine compounds disclosed herein required to provide a clinically significant decrease in autoimmune disease such as those resulting from arthritis or rheumatoid arthritis or from an inflammatory disease. An appropriate effective amount in any individual case may be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using routine experimentation.

By physiological pH or a pH in the physiologically acceptable range is meant a pH in the range of approximately 7.2 to 8.0 inclusive more typically in the range of approximately 7.2 to 7.6 inclusive.

 Preventing or Prevention refers to a reduction in risk of acquiring a disease or disorder i.e. causing at least one of the clinical symptoms of the disease not to develop in a patient that may be exposed to or preposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease .

 Prodrug refers to a derivative of a drug molecule that requires a transformation within the body to release the active drug. Prodrugs are frequently though not necessarily pharmacologically inactive until converted to the parent drug.

 Protecting group refers to a group of atoms that when attached to a reactive group in a molecule masks reduces or prevents that reactivity. Examples of protecting groups can be found in Green et al. Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Wiley 2ed. 1991 and Harrison et al. Compendium of Synthetic Organic Methods vols. 1 8 John Wiley and Sons 1971 1996 . Representative amino protecting groups include but are not limited to formyl acetyl trifluoroacetyl benzyl benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ tert butoxycarbonyl Boc trimethylsilyl TMS 2 trimethylsilyl ethanesulfonyl SES trityl and substituted trityl groups allyloxycarbonyl 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl FMOC nitroveratryloxycarbonyl NVOC and the like. Representative hydroxyl protecting groups include but are not limited to those where the hydroxyl group is either acylated or alkylated such as benzyl and trialkylsilyl ethers and allyl ethers.

 Substituted refers to a group in which one or more hydrogen atoms are each independently replaced with the same or different substituents s . Typical substituents include but are not limited to X R O O OR SR S S NRR NR CX CF CN OCN SCN NO NO N N S O O S O OH S O OR OS O O OS O R P O O P O OR O OP O OR OR C O R C S R C O OR C O NRR C O O C S OR NRC O NRR NRC S NRR NRC NR NRR and C NR NRR where each X is independently a halogen each R R Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl substituted cycloheteroalkyl heteroalkyl substituted heteroalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl NRR C O Ror S O Ror optionally Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are both attached form a cycloheteroalkyl or substituted cycloheteroalkyl ring and Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl substituted cycloheteroalkyl heteroalkyl substituted heteroalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl.

 Sulfate refers to a radical OS O O OR where R is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein.

 Sulfonamide refers to a radical S O O NR R where R and R are independently hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein or optionally R and R together with the atom to which they are both attached form a cycloheteroalkyl or substituted cycloheteroalkyl ring. Representative examples include but not limited to azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl 4 NR piperazinyl or imidazolyl group wherein said group may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein. R hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein.

 Sulfonate refers to a radical S O O OR where R is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein.

 Thioether refers to a radical SR where R is alkyl cycloalkyl cycloheteroalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl as defined herein that may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents as defined herein.

As used herein the terms treat or treatment are used interchangeably and are meant to indicate a postponement of development of arthritis rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory disease and or a reduction in the severity of such symptoms that will or are expected to develop. The terms further include ameliorating existing symptoms of arthritis or rheumatoid arthritis preventing additional symptoms and ameliorating or preventing the underlying metabolic causes of symptoms.

As used herein the term subject encompasses mammals and non mammals. Examples of mammals include but are not limited to any member of the Mammalian class humans non human primates such as chimpanzees and other apes and monkey species farm animals such as cattle horses sheep goats swine domestic animals such as rabbits dogs and cats laboratory animals including rodents such as rats mice and guinea pigs and the like. Examples of non mammals include but are not limited to birds fish and the like. The term does not denote a particular age or gender.

The term optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not. For example the phrase optionally another drug means that the patient may or may not be given a drug other than the phenazine compounds of the invention. Another drug as used herein is meant any chemical material or compound suitable for administration to a mammalian preferably human which induces a desired local or systemic effect.

In another aspect the compounds of the invention include compounds having the structure of Formula II 

The phenazine compounds of the invention do not include the compounds illustrated by the following structures 

In another aspect of the invention rational drug design based upon structural studies of the molecular shapes of the compounds of Formulae II III and IV identified above and known ligands or analogs can be used to identify compounds whose three dimensional structure is complementary to that of compounds of Formulae II III and IV and could thus have the same activity. These additional compounds can be determined by a variety of techniques including molecular mechanics calculations molecular dynamics calculations constrained molecular dynamics calculations in which the constraints are determined by NMR spectroscopy distance geometry in which the distance matrix is partially determined by NMR spectroscopy x ray diffraction or neutron diffraction techniques.

Computer programs for use in rational drug design include but are not limited to AMBER available from University of California San Francisco CHARMM Chemistry at HARvard Molecular Mechanics available from Harvard University MM2 SYBYL Trypos Inc. CHEMX Chemical Design MACROMODEL GRID Molecular Discovery Ltd and Insight II Accelry . Such programs are contemplated as being useful for the determination of the chemical interaction between two molecules either isolated or surrounded by solvent molecules such as water molecules or using calculations that approximate the effect of solvating the interacting molecules. The relative orientation of the two can be determined manually by visual inspection or by using other computer programs which generate a large number of possible orientations. Examples of computer programs include but are not limited to DOCK and AutoDOCK. Each orientation can be tested for its degree of complementarity using the computer programs. Thus novel compounds can be designed that can be represented by Formulae I IV.

Other methods for identifying compounds of Formulae I IV involve the use of techniques such as UV VIS spectroscopy polarimetry CD or ORD spectroscopy IR or Raman spectroscopy NMR spectroscopy fluorescence spectroscopy HPLC gel electrophoresis capillary gel electrophoresis dialysis refractometry conductometry atomic force microscopy polarography dielectometry calorimetry solubility EPR surface plasmon resonance or mass spectroscopy.

The compounds of Formulae I IV thus identified or designed can be subsequently tested for their ability to treat and or prevent autoimmune diseases or inflammatory diseases. In one aspect the computer based methods discussed above are used. In another method the compounds are tested for their ability to treat and or prevent autoimmune diseases or inflammatory diseases. Lead compounds identified during these screens can serve as the basis for the synthesis of more active analogs. Lead compounds and or active analogs generated therefrom can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions effective in treating and or preventing autoimmune diseases or inflammatory diseases.

In general the phenazine compounds can be biosynthesized using a variety of organisms such as mold algae and bacteria. In organisms the biosynthesis of the phenazine compounds branches off the shikimic acid pathway subsequent to chorismic acid. Two molecules of the chorismate derived intermediate are brought together in a diagonally symmetrical fashion to form the basic phenazine scaffold. Sequential modifications then lead to a variety of phenazines with differing biological activities. Thus in one aspect of the invention an organism is either selected or created using known biotechnology methods and protocols such that the organism can modify the basic phenazine scaffold to the particular compounds of interest.

Thus an organism or a subisolate once identified can be grown under fermentation conditions to synthesize the desired compounds. The fermentation medium consists of sources of carbon nitrogen minerals and growth factors. Examples of suitable carbon sources include glycerol and various simple sugars such as glucose mannose fructose xylose ribose and other carbohydrate containing materials such as dextrin starch cornmeal and whey and cellulose containing medium including papers and newspaper. Normally the quantity of carbon source materials in the fermentation medium varies from about 0.1 to about 10 percent by weight. Suitable nitrogen sources in the fermentation medium include organic inorganic and mixed inorganic organic nitrogen containing materials. Examples of such materials are cottonseed meal soybean meal corn germ flour corn steep liquor distillers dry solubles peanut meal peptonized milk caseins and various ammonium salts. The addition of minerals and growth factors can also be helpful in the production of the bioactive compounds of the invention. Examples of suitable minerals and growth factors include potassium chloride calcium chloride sodium chloride ferrous sulfate calcium carbonate cobaltous chloride zinc sulfate and various yeast and milk products. The product can be isolated from the aqueous layer using an organic solvent where the organic solvents can be benzene hexane ethyl acetate acetone acetonitrile chloroform dichloromethane other organic solvents and extraction buffers.

In another aspect of the invention the bioactive compounds of the invention can be produced by solid state fermentation of the microorganism. In another aspect of the invention the phenazine compounds of the present invention and other related compounds having different substituents identified by any of the methods described above can be chemically synthesized using techniques and materials known to those of skill in the art such as described for example in March ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4Ed. Wiley 1992 Carey and Sundberg ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 3Ed. Vols. A and B Plenum 1992 and Green and Wuts PROTECTIVE GROUPS IN ORGANIC SYNTHESIS 2Ed. Wiley 1991 . Starting materials for the compounds of the invention may be obtained using standard techniques and commercially available precursor materials such as those available from Aldrich Chemical Co. Milwaukee Wis. Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. Lancaster Synthesis Windham N.H. Apin Chemicals Ltd. New Brunswick N.J. Ryan Scientific Columbia S.C. Maybridge Cornwall England and Trans World Chemicals Rockville Md. .

The procedures described herein for synthesizing the compounds of the invention may include one or more steps of protection and deprotection e.g. the formation and removal of acetal groups . In addition the synthetic procedures disclosed below can include various purifications such as column chromatography flash chromatography thin layer chromatography TLC recrystallization distillation high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC and the like. Also various techniques well known in the chemical arts for the identification and quantification of chemical reaction products such as proton and carbon 13 nuclear magnetic resonance H and C NMR infrared and ultraviolet spectroscopy IR and UV X ray crystallography elemental analysis EA HPLC and mass spectroscopy MS can be used as well. Methods of protection and deprotection purification and identification and quantification are well known in the chemical arts.

Prodrugs and solvates of the compounds of the invention are also contemplated herein. A discussion of prodrugs is provided in T. Higuchi and V. Stella Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems 1987 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design 1987 Edward B. Roche ed. American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press. The transformation a compound e.g a drug precursor in vivo to yield a compound of Formulae I IV can occur by various mechanisms e.g. by metabolic or chemical processes such as for example through hydrolysis in blood. For example if a compound of Formula I IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or solvate of the compound contains a carboxylic acid functional group a prodrug can comprise an ester formed by the replacement of the hydrogen atom of the acid group with a group such as for example C C alkyl lower alkanoyloxymethyl C C 1 alkanoyloxy ethyl C C 1 methyl 1 alkanoyloxy ethyl C C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl C C 1 alkoxycarbonyloxy ethyl C C 1 methyl 1 alkoxycarbonyloxy ethyl and the like.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In yet another aspect the present invention is directed to a method of treating a disease or disorder in a patient such as metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer inflammation respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes and non alcoholic fatty liver disease. The method comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof. Preferred diseases that may be treated by the methods include inflammatory or immunological disease for example rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis ankylosing spondylitis psoriasis psoriatic arthritis asthma acute respiratory distress syndrome chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or multiple sclerosis. Additional preferred diseases that may be treated by the methods include diabetes hyperlipidemia including coronary heart disease cancer or proliferative disease.

The methods described herein use pharmaceutical compositions comprising the molecules described above where the molecule is preferably Formula I II II or IV described in detail above together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients or vehicles and optionally other therapeutic and or prophylactic ingredients. Such excipients include liquids such as water saline glycerol polyethyleneglycol hyaluronic acid ethanol etc. Suitable excipients for non liquid formulations are also known to those of skill in the art. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be used in the compositions of the present invention and include for example mineral acid salts such as hydrochlorides hydrobromides phosphates sulfates and the like and the salts of organic acids such as acetates propionates malonates benzoates and the like. A thorough discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients and salts is available in 18th Edition Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 1990 .

Additionally auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents biological buffering substances surfactants and the like can be present in such vehicles. A biological buffer can be any solution which is pharmacologically acceptable and which provides the formulation with the desired pH i.e. a pH in the physiologically acceptable range. Examples of buffer solutions include saline phosphate buffered saline Tris buffered saline Hank s buffered saline and the like.

Depending on the intended mode of administration the pharmaceutical compositions can be in the form of solid semi solid or liquid dosage forms such as for example tablets suppositories pills capsules powders liquids suspensions creams ointments lotions or the like preferably in unit dosage form suitable for single administration of a precise dosage. The compositions will include an effective amount of the selected drug in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and in addition may include other pharmaceutical agents adjuvants diluents buffers etc.

The invention includes a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the present invention including isomers racemic or non racemic mixtures of isomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and optionally other therapeutic and or prophylactic ingredients.

In general the compounds of this invention will be administered in a therapeutically effective amount by any of the accepted modes of administration. Suitable dosage ranges depend upon numerous factors such as the severity of the disease to be treated the age and relative health of the subject the potency of the compound used the route and form of administration the indication towards which the administration is directed and the preferences and experience of the medical practitioner involved. One of ordinary skill in the art of treating such diseases will be able without undue experimentation and in reliance upon personal knowledge and the disclosure of this application to ascertain a therapeutically effective amount of the compounds of this invention for a given disease.

Thus the compounds of this invention can be administered as pharmaceutical formulations including those suitable for oral including buccal and sub lingual rectal nasal topical pulmonary vaginal or parenteral including intramuscular intraarterial intrathecal subcutaneous and intravenous administration or in a form suitable for administration by inhalation or insufflation. The preferred manner of administration is intravenous or oral using a convenient daily dosage regimen which can be adjusted according to the degree of affliction.

For solid compositions conventional nontoxic solid carriers include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin talc cellulose glucose sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like. Liquid pharmaceutically administrable compositions can for example be prepared by dissolving dispersing etc. an active compound as described herein and optional pharmaceutical adjuvants in an excipient such as for example water saline aqueous dextrose glycerol ethanol and the like to thereby form a solution or suspension. If desired the pharmaceutical composition to be administered may also contain minor amounts of nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering agents and the like for example sodium acetate sorbitan monolaurate triethanolamine sodium acetate triethanolamine oleate etc. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art for example see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences referenced above.

For oral administration the composition will generally take the form of a tablet capsule a softgel capsule or can be an aqueous or nonaqueous solution suspension or syrup. Tablets and capsules are preferred oral administration forms. Tablets and capsules for oral use can include one or more commonly used carriers such as lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are also typically added. Typically the compounds of the invention can be combined with an oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as lactose starch sucrose glucose methyl callulose magnesium stearate dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate mannitol sorbitol and the like. Moreover when desired or necessary suitable binders lubricants disintegrating agents and coloring agents can also be incorporated into the mixture. Suitable binders include starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes and the like. Lubricants used in these dosage forms include sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrators include without limitation starch methyl cellulose agar bentonite xanthan gum and the like.

Thus for example capsules can be prepared by conventional procedures so that the dosage unit is 100 mg of the compounds of the invention 100 mg of cellulose and 10 mg of magnesium stearate. A large number of unit capsules may also prepared by filling standard two piece hard gelatin capsules each with 100 mg of powdered active ingredient 150 mg of lactose 50 mg of cellulose and 10 mg magnesium stearate. Or tablets may be prepared by conventional procedures so that the dosage unit is 100 mg of the compounds of the invention 150 mg of lactose 50 mg of cellulose and 10 mg of magnesium stearate. A large number of tablets may also be prepared by conventional procedures such that the dosage unit was 100 mg of the compounds of the invention and other ingredients can be 0.2 mg of colloidal silicon dioxide 5 mg of magnesium stearate 250 mg of microcrystalline cellulose 10 mg of starch and 100 mg of lactose. Appropriate coatings may be applied to increase palatability or delay absorption.

When liquid suspensions are used the active agent can be combined with any oral non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as ethanol glycerol water and the like and with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired flavoring coloring and or sweetening agents may be added as well. Other optional components for incorporation into an oral formulation herein include but are not limited to preservatives suspending agents thickening agents and the like.

Parenteral formulations can be prepared in conventional forms either as liquid solutions or suspensions solid forms suitable for solubilization or suspension in liquid prior to injection or as emulsions. Preferably sterile injectable suspensions are formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable carriers dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable formulation may also be a sterile injectable solution or a suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils fatty esters or polyols are conventionally employed as solvents or suspending media. In addition parenteral administration may involve the use of a slow release or sustained release system such that a constant level of dosage is maintained.

Parenteral administration includes intraarticular intravenous intramuscular intradermal intraperitoneal and subcutaneous routes and include aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions which can contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending agents solubilizers thickening agents stabilizers and preservatives. Administration via certain parenteral routes can involve introducing the formulations of the present invention into the body of a patient through a needle or a catheter propelled by a sterile syringe or some other mechanical device such as an continuous infusion system. A formulation provided by the present invention can be administered using a syringe injector pump or any other device recognized in the art for parenteral administration.

Preferably sterile injectable suspensions are formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable carriers dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable formulation can also be a sterile injectable solution or a suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that can be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils fatty esters or polyols are conventionally employed as solvents or suspending media. In addition parenteral administration can involve the use of a slow release or sustained release system such that a constant level of dosage is maintained.

Preparations according to this invention for parenteral administration include sterile aqueous or non aqueous solutions suspensions or emulsions. Examples of non aqueous solvents or vehicles are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol vegetable oils such as olive oil and corn oil gelatin and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Such dosage forms can also contain adjuvants such as preserving wetting emulsifying and dispersing agents. They can be sterilized by for example filtration through a bacteria retaining filter by incorporating sterilizing agents into the compositions by irradiating the compositions or by heating the compositions. They can also be manufactured using sterile water or some other sterile injectable medium immediately before use.

The formulations can optionally contain an isotonicity agent. The formulations preferably contain an isotonicity agent and glycerin is the most preferred isotonicity agent. The concentration of glycerin when it is used is in the range known in the art such as for example about 1 mg mL to about 20 mg mL.

The pH of the parenteral formulations can be controlled by a buffering agent such as phosphate acetate TRIS or L arginine. The concentration of the buffering agent is preferably adequate to provide buffering of the pH during storage to maintain the pH at a target pH 0.2 pH unit. The preferred pH is between about 7 and about 8 when measured at room temperature.

Other additives such as a pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizers like Tween 20 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monolaurate Tween 40 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monopalmitate Tween 80 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monooleate Pluronic F68 polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block copolymers and PEG polyethylene glycol can optionally be added to the formulation and may be useful if the formulations will contact plastic materials. In addition the parenteral formulations can contain various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating one or more of the compounds of the invention in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof. Thus for example a parenteral composition suitable for administration by injection is prepared by stirring 1.5 by weight of active ingredient in 10 by volume propylene glycol and water. The solution is made isotonic with sodium chloride and sterilized.

Alternatively the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration. These can be prepared by mixing the agent with a suitable nonirritating excipient which is solid at room temperature but liquid at the rectal temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials include cocoa butter beeswax and polyethylene glycols.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability propellants such as fluorocarbons or nitrogen and or other conventional solubilizing or dispersing agents.

Preferred formulations for topical drug delivery are ointments and creams. Ointments are semisolid preparations which are typically based on petrolatum or other petroleum derivatives. Creams containing the selected active agent are as known in the art viscous liquid or semisolid emulsions either oil in water or water in oil. Cream bases are water washable and contain an oil phase an emulsifier and an aqueous phase. The oil phase also sometimes called the internal phase is generally comprised of petrolatum and a fatty alcohol such as cetyl or stearyl alcohol the aqueous phase usually although not necessarily exceeds the oil phase in volume and generally contains a humectant. The emulsifier in a cream formulation is generally a nonionic anionic cationic or amphoteric surfactant. The specific ointment or cream base to be used as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art is one that will provide for optimum drug delivery. As with other carriers or vehicles an ointment base should be inert stable nonirritating and nonsensitizing.

Formulations for buccal administration include tablets lozenges gels and the like. Alternatively buccal administration can be effected using a transmucosal delivery system as known to those skilled in the art. The compounds of the invention may also be delivered through the skin or muscosal tissue using conventional transdermal drug delivery systems i.e. transdermal patches wherein the agent is typically contained within a laminated structure that serves as a drug delivery device to be affixed to the body surface. In such a structure the drug composition is typically contained in a layer or reservoir underlying an upper backing layer. The laminated device may contain a single reservoir or it may contain multiple reservoirs. In one embodiment the reservoir comprises a polymeric matrix of a pharmaceutically acceptable contact adhesive material that serves to affix the system to the skin during drug delivery. Examples of suitable skin contact adhesive materials include but are not limited to polyethylenes polysiloxanes polyisobutylenes polyacrylates polyurethanes and the like. Alternatively the drug containing reservoir and skin contact adhesive are present as separate and distinct layers with the adhesive underlying the reservoir which in this case may be either a polymeric matrix as described above or it may be a liquid or gel reservoir or may take some other form. The backing layer in these laminates which serves as the upper surface of the device functions as the primary structural element of the laminated structure and provides the device with much of its flexibility. The material selected for the backing layer should be substantially impermeable to the active agent and any other materials that are present.

The compounds of the present invention can be formulated for aerosol administration particularly to the respiratory tract and including intranasal administration. The compound will generally have a small particle size for example of the order of 5 microns or less. Such a particle size may be obtained by means known in the art for example by micronization. The active ingredient is provided in a pressurized pack with a suitable propellant such as a chlorofluorocarbon CFC for example dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane or dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. The aerosol may conveniently also contain a surfactant such as lecithin. The dose of drug may be controlled by a metered valve. Alternatively the active ingredients may be provided in a form of a dry powder for example a powder mix of the compound in a suitable powder base such as lactose starch starch derivatives such as hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose and polyvinylpyrrolidine PVP . The powder carrier will form a gel in the nasal cavity. The powder composition may be presented in unit dose form for example in capsules or cartridges of e.g. gelatin or blister packs from which the powder may be administered by means of an inhaler.

A pharmaceutically or therapeutically effective amount of the composition will be delivered to the subject. The precise effective amount will vary from subject to subject and will depend upon the species age the subject s size and health the nature and extent of the condition being treated recommendations of the treating physician and the therapeutics or combination of therapeutics selected for administration. Thus the effective amount for a given situation can be determined by routine experimentation. For purposes of the present invention generally a therapeutic amount will be in the range of about 0.01 mg kg to about 40 mg kg body weight more preferably about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg in at least one dose. In larger mammals the indicated daily dosage can be from about 1 mg to 300 mg one or more times per day more preferably in the range of about 10 mg to 200 mg. The subject may be administered as many doses as is required to reduce and or alleviate the signs symptoms or causes of the disorder in question or bring about any other desired alteration of a biological system.

When desired formulations can be prepared with enteric coatings adapted for sustained or controlled release administration of the active ingredient.

The pharmaceutical preparations are preferably in unit dosage forms. In such form the preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active component. The unit dosage form can be a packaged preparation the package containing discrete quantities of preparation such as packeted tablets capsules and powders in vials or ampoules. Also the unit dosage form can be a capsule tablet cachet or lozenge itself or it can be the appropriate number of any of these in packaged form.

The compounds of Formula I IV or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof can also be administered in combination with other therapeutic agents. For example one or more compounds of Formula I IV or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof can be administered with one or more additional active ingredients selected from the group consisting of HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds HMG CoA synthetase inhibitors squalene synthesis inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors sterol biosynthesis inhibitors nicotinic acid derivatives bile acid sequestrants AcylCoA Cholesterol O acyltransferase inhibitors cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors fish oils containing Omega 3 fatty acids plant stanols and or fatty acid esters of plant stanols anti oxidants PPAR agonists FXR receptor modulators LXR receptor agonists lipoprotein synthesis inhibitors renin angiotensin inhibitors microsomal triglyceride transport protein inhibitors bile acid reabsorption inhibitors triglyceride synthesis inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors low density lipoprotein receptor inducers or activators platelet aggregation inhibitors 5 LO or FLAP inhibitors niacin or niacin receptor agonists 5HT transporter inhibitors NE transporter inhibitors NPY1 antagonists NPY5 antagonists NPY2 agonists NPY4 agonists leptins leptin agonists modulators leptin derivatives opioid antagonists CNTF CNTF derivatives CNTF agonists modulators serotonin reuptake inhibitors GLP 1 agonists PDE inhibitors UCP activators lipase inhibitors fatty acid transporter inhibitors dicarboxylate transporter inhibitors glucose transporter inhibitors phosphate transporter inhibitors anti diabetic agents anti hypertensive agents anti dyslipidemic agents apolipoprotein B secretion microsomal triglyceride transfer protein apo B MTP inhibitors dopamine agonists apo A1 milano reverse cholesterol transport inhibitors fatty acid binding protein inhibitors FABP and fatty acid transporter protein inhibitors FATP and the like. In another aspect the additional active agent can be but is not limited to an estrogen an IGF osteoprotegrin OPG a calcitonin a bisphosphonate vitamin Dor an analogue thereof a statin an adrogen a fluoride salt a vitamin a mineral supplement a nutritional supplement and combinations thereof. The additional agent also may be an antibiotic such as gentamycin ciprofloxacin vancomycin and or others. This additional active agent can be administered to the subject prior to concurrently with or subsequently to administration of the compounds of Formula I IV of this invention. Anti inflammatory drugs including but not limited to nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids and antiviral drugs including but not limited to ribivirin vidarabine acyclovir and ganciclovir may also be combined in compositions of the invention.

In the case of autoimmune disease inflammation inflammatory diseases and other such cytokine mediated disorders the additional agent s can be selected from the group consisting of a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID such as diclofenac diflunisal ibuprofen naproxen and the like a cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor such as celecoxib rofecoxib and the like a corticosteroid such as prednisone methylprednisone and the like or other immunosuppressive agent such as methotrexate leflunomide cyclophosphamide azathioprine and the like a disease modifying antirheumatic drug DMARD such as injectable gold penicilliamine hydroxychloroquine sulfasalazine and the like a TNF alpha inhibitor such as etanercept infliximab and the like other cytokine inhibitor such as soluble cytokine receptor anti cytokine antibody and the like other immune modulating agent such as cyclosporin tacrolimus rapamycin and the like and a narcotic agent such as hydrocodone morphine codeine tramadol and the like .

In the case of hyperlipidemia diabetes insulin resistance and associated conditions or complications including obesity such additional agent s can be selected from the group consisting of insulin or an insulin mimetic a sulfonylurea such as acetohexamide chlorpropamide glimepiride glipizide glyburide tolbutamide and the like or other insulin secretagogue such as nateglinide repaglinide and the like a thiazolidinedione such as pioglitazone rosiglitazone and the like or other peroxisome proliferator activated receptor PPAR agonist a fibrate such as bezafibrate clofibrate fenofibrate gemfibrozol and the like a biguanide such as metformin a statin such as fluvastatin lovastatin pravastatin simvastatin and the like or other hydroxymethylglutaryl HMG CoA reductase inhibitor an alpha glucosidase inhibitor such as acarbose miglitol voglibose and the like a bile acid binding resin such as cholestyramine celestipol and the like a high density lipoprotein HDL lowering agent such as apolipoprotein A I apoA1 niacin and the like probucol and nicotinic acid. Preferred additional agents include for example sulfonylurea thiazolidinedione fibrate or statin.

Non limiting examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds useful in combination with the compounds of Formula I IV of the present invention are lovastatin for example MEVACOR which is available from Merck Co. simvastatin for example ZOCOR which is available from Merck Co. pravastatin for example PRAVACHOL which is available from Bristol Meyers Squibb atorvastatin fluvastatin cerivastatin CI 981 rivastatin sodium 7 4 fluorophenyl 2 6 diisopropyl 5 methoxymethylpyridin 3 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6 heptanoate rosuvastatin calcium CRESTOR from AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals pitavastatin such as NK 104 of Negma Kowa of Japan and the like.

A non limiting example of a HMG CoA synthetase inhibitor useful in combination with the compounds of Formula I IV of the present invention is for example L 659 699 E E 11 3 R hydroxy methyl 4 oxo 2 R oxetanyl 3 5 7R trimethyl 2 4 undecadienoic acid and the like.

Below are examples of specific embodiments for carrying out the present invention. The examples are offered for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperatures etc. but some experimental error and deviation should of course be allowed for.

The compounds of the invention were synthesized using microorganisms particularly a subisolate from ATCC r 9311 29479 and designated MC 4. MC 4 was isolated by growing ATCC r 9311 29479 in an SD 38 an agar plate Table 1 0.3 casein 0.25 brewers yeast 0.13 CaCl fermentation medium shaken for 24 hrs.

MC 4 was transferred to an agar slant of the same medium composition and incubated at 28 C. After 24 hrs of cultivation 10 ml of the fermentation broth was mixed with 5 ml of methylene chloride and allowed to settle into phases. The mixture was allowed to incubate for 3 days at room temperature lab bench . The upper aqueous phase showed noticeable growth and was subsequently spread plated on to SD 38 agar plate and allowed to incubate for 7 days at 28 C. Several colonies were isolated including MC 4 brown colony with black dot in center colony produces dark heavy pigment .

The compound of Formula III or IV was produced using aerobic fermentation of MC 4 subisolate under controlled conditions.

The compound of Formula III or IV was produced using aerobic fermentation of MC 4 subisolate under controlled conditions.

One method for the aerobic fermentation of MC 4 subisolate utilized the submerged culture fermentation method. The fermentation medium was prepared by dissolving or suspending the ingredients in water and subsequently sterilizing the resulting medium by autoclaving or by steam heating. The sterilized medium was cooled to a temperature of between 16 C. and 45 C. inoculated with the microorganism and thereafter fermentation was carried out with aeration and agitation using either shake flasks or stationary tank fermentors. In shake flasks aeration is achieved by agitating the flasks to bring about intimate mixing of the inoculated medium with air. In stationary tank fermentors agitation is provided by impellers which may take the form of disc turbines vaned discs or open turbine or marine propellers. Aeration is accomplished by sparging air or oxygen into the agitated mixture. The fermentation was allowed to proceed for a period of from 10 48 hrs.

A portion of the microbial growth from the agar slant above was used to inoculate an 18 mm. 150 mm seed tube containing 5 ml of seed medium SCM Table 2 .

The biological activity of the fermentation broths was assayed by the agar diffusion assay involving RSY and MEVS .

A cryogenic vial containing approximately 1 ml of a suspension of the culture was used to inoculate 100 ml of seed culture medium SCM in a 300 ml Tunair Ful Baf shake flask. The inoculated flask was incubated for about 16 24 hours at 28 C. for 16 24 hrs shaking 180 rpm gyratory shaker 5 cm throw .

After sufficient growth is obtained 10 ml aliquots of the microbial growth were transferred aseptically to four 2 L Erlenmeyer seed flasks containing a 500 ml of SCM. The inoculated medium was incubated at 28 C. for 16 24 hrs shaking 180 rpm gyratory shaker 5 cm throw .

The microbial growth from these four flasks were pooled and used to inoculate a 25 gal Airmentor. The production fermentor contained 20 gallons 80 liters of production culture medium CPM which was steam sterilized for 40 minutes at 121.degree. C. The medium was cooled to 28 C. before inoculation. Fermentation was carried out for about 20 hrs. stirred at 155 rpm and sparged with air at 1 CFM air. A silicone based antifoam was used to control foaming as needed.

The fermentation broth 80 liters prepared as described above was transferred to a holding tank containing 30 L of methylene chloride and stirred intermittently. Extraction of the compound was allowed overnight. After allowing the mixture to separate the lower organic layer was removed. The methylene chloride extract was concentrated to slurry and then filter aid was added.

The air dried crude sample was allowed to air dry then charged to a silica gel column 1 part sample and 10 parts silica gel 200 300 mesh Natland N.C. . After packing the silica gel column with the sample the column was eluted with methylene chloride. The column resolved different bands including cherry pink orange tan pink yellow and brown bands. The rich cut eluate containing the pink band was recovered and dried in vacuo to provide 1.5 g of a compound.

1 gram of the compound thus obtained was dissolved in 50 ml acetone and 1 gram of NaOH slurried in minimal water was added to the solution. The mixture was stirred for about 1 hour the precipitate recovered by centrifugation and the precipitate washed 3 with acetone or until the acetone wash was clear. The dark green precipitate thus obtained was air dried to yield about 1.5 gram of compound of Formula III. Compound of Formula IV can be prepared by using KOH.

Type II collagen induced arthritis CIA in mice is an accepted experimental model of arthritis with a number of pathological immunological and genetic features in common with rheumatoid arthritis. This disease is induced by immunization of susceptible strains of mice with type II collagen the major component of joint cartilage. A progressive inflammatory arthritis develops in the majority of immunized animals which is characterized clinically by erythema and edema with affected paw width increases of typically 100 . A clinical scoring index has been developed to assess disease progression to joint distortion and spondylitis. Histopathology of affected joints reveals synovitis pannus formation and cartilage and bone erosion which may also be represented by an index. Immunological laboratory findings include high antibody levels to type II collagen and hypergammaglobulinemia.

This study was designed to evaluate the anti inflammatory and anti arthritic activity of compound of Formula III using the CIA model by observing changes in immune parameters due to treatment. The animals were administered oral corticosteroid Enbrel an injectable TNF inhibitor and compound of Formula III using both oral and parenteral delivery. Seventy five DBA 1 LacJ mice 8 10 weeks of age were obtained from Jackson Labs and quarantined in our facility for 10 days prior to experimentation. All mice weighed 16 grams at the start of the experiment. Mice were pre bled by retro orbital puncture and injected with 100 g Bovine type II collagen in Freund s complete adjuvant FCA intradermally at the base of the tail. Mice were monitored by daily examination for the onset of disease. Mice that developed CIA between 20 days post immunization and 42 days post immunization were assigned to one of five treatment groups on a rotational basis to normalize onset date and ten mice were assigned to each group. For administration compound of Formula III was solubilized in sterile saline. To facilitate drugs delivered by oral administration carboxymethylcellulose was added to a final concentration of 4 in all gavage solutions. Compounds were administered according to the following schedule 

Mice were weighed weekly and overall health status noted. Arthritiic animals were clinically assessed by visual inspection five times per week and paw swelling quantified by caliper measurements made three times per week until seven weeks after the initial onset of arthritis. All animals were assessed individually from the time of disease onset and the appropriate findings were entered into clinical report forms.

All mice were pre bled prior to the start of the trial subsequently at onset of arthritis and at the completion of the trial. Sera were separated and stored at 80 C. ELISA assays were performed to determine anti type II collagen antibody levels and total immunoglobulin levels.

ELISA plates Nunc Immuno plates Denmark were coated with 100 l of coating buffer 0.4M phosphate buffer ph7.6 containing 5 g of type II collagen at 4 C. overnight. Plates were washed 3 times with PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 Sigma St. Louis Mo. and non specific binding was blocked by PBS containing 5 non fat milk overnight at 4 C. Mouse sera diluted to 1 100 in 5 milk PBS was added to each well and incubated overnight at 4 C. Subsequently the plates were washed six times in PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 and incubated with alkaline phosphatase conjugated goat anti mouse Ig Southern Biotechnology Associates Birmingham Ala. at 37 C. for 1 hour. Plates were washed 6 times again and developed for 40 minutes in the dark using p nitrophenyl phosphate Sigma St. Louis Mo. as a chromatogen substrate. The resulting optical density was measured at 405 nm by using a UV max spectrophotometer Molecular Devices CA . Negative pre bleed control sera and a standard mouse anti CII antiserum were titered on each plate to ensure uniformity of the assay. Antibody binding was expressed as OD405 units blank.

Serum Ig levels was assessed using an ELISA assay. Dynatech Immulon I 96 well ELISA plates were coated with a 1 250 dilution of rabbit anti mouse IgG Axell in PBS overnight at 4 C. Plates were washed 3 with PBS containing 0.05 Tween and blocked by the addition of 5 BSA in PBS. Serum samples diluted 1 400 in PBS BSA was dispensed in triplicate and a reference curve constructed by a doubling dilution titer of mouse Ig reference serum Miles from 1 500 to 1 256 000. The plate was incubated overnight at room temperature and washed 3 with PBS Tween. One hundred l of goat anti IgG conjugated with alkaline phosphatase Fisher Biotek 1 500 dilution in Milk PBS Tween was added and the incubation continued for 1 hour at 37 C. After washing 3 with PBS Tween 100 l of paranitrophenyl phosphate solution PNPP tablets Sigma in diethylolamine buffer was added to each well and the reaction allowed to proceed for 20 minutes in the dark. The plate was read at 405 nm using a Photospectrometer Molecular Devices and the data analyzed using the SOFTmax analytical software package. The standard curve derived from the reference serum was used to calculate Ig levels in the test samples by regression analysis.

Terminal serum cytokines were assayed using commercial kits R D Systems MN . Briefly ELISA plates were coated with monclonal anti IL 1 anti IL 6 or anti TNF . Plates were washed 3 times with PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 Sigma St. Louis Mo. . 50 l of serum dilute 1 200 in PBS was then added and incubated overnight at 4 C. Subsequently the plates were washed six times in PBS containing 0.05 Tween 20 and incubated with biotinylated secondary antibody at 37 C. for 1 hour. Plates were washed 6 times and streptavidin APK was added and incubated at room temperature for 40 minutes. The plates were then washed 6 times and developed for 40 minutes in the dark using p nitrophenyl phosphate Sigma St. Louis Mo. as a chromatogen substrate. The resulting optical density was measured at 405 nm by using a UV max spectrophotometer Molecular Devices CA . Cytokine levels were determined by regression analysis against the standard curve provided by the manufacturer.

Spleen and lymph nodes were removed at sacrifice and mitogen responses to Con A and LPS and antigen proliferative responses to type II collagen were determined using standard techniques. Lymph nodes and spleens were harvested and 1 ml of cell suspension 2.5 10 ml cultured in 12 well tissue culture plates Costar Corning N.Y. with various stimuli in complete RPMI 1640 medium. Cells were incubated for 3 days at 37 C. in a 5 COatmosphere in the presence of mitogen or antigen. 20 l of MTT a mitochondrial enzyme substrate solution 5 mg ml Sigma St Louis Mo. was added per well. After 6 hours the culture supernatant was discarded and 200 l of 10 SDS solution added to each well. After incubation at 37 C. overnight the optical density at 590 nm was read using a microplate photospectrometer Molecular Devices CA . The mean and OD values which provide a measure of cell proliferation were recorded for each cell sample with respect to antigen stimulation. Antigen specific responses were expressed as OD590 Stimulated Culture OD590 Spontaneous proliferation culture OD590 Spontaneous proliferation culture .

Mice were assessed for the progression of disease based upon the number of involved paws and the overall arthritis score . A significant effect was observed for most compounds in this trial when compared with control saline treated animals.

Significant differences in the number of involved paws were observed between the groups commencing at Day 16 after arthritis onset. Mice receiving prednisolone developed a significantly lower number of arthritic paws p

In contrast to the influence on paw number the compound of Formula III was observed to exert a marked effect upon the arthritis score in this study . As expected both of the established anti arthritic compounds prednisolone and Enbrel significantly reduced the arthritis score below the level of disease observed in saline control treated mice.

The levels of anti CII antibody levels in mice prior to experimentation at the onset of disease commencement of dosing and at the termination of the study are shown in . No mice exhibited any detectable levels of anti CII antibody prior to injection with type II collagen and all mice developed a strong antibody response following immunization. At the time of the initiation of drug treatment there was no significant difference in antibody titers between all five groups indicating equivalence in anti CII response.

Consistent with previous findings mice treated with saline exhibited elevated terminal anti CII levels when compared with the levels seen at disease onset. After seven weeks of treatment two compounds exerted a suppressive effect on the increase of anti CII titers. Prednisolone caused a minor decrease in anti CII levels compared with the titers assayed at disease onset and the compound of Formula III administered via i.p. resulted in maintenance of titers equivalent to the levels at onset. These results generated a significant reduction p

The total serum Ig levels assayed in prebleed onset and terminal blood samples are shown in . As expected the induction of collagen arthritis was accompanied by a marked elevation of total serum Ig levels. In saline treated mice serum Ig continued to rise and was assayed at very high levels at the conclusion of the trial. However these titers were highly variable among the individual mice in the experiment.

Although both Prednisolone and the compound of Formula III i.p. reduced total serum Ig levels at the terminal bleed this reduction was not significantly different from the levels observed in control mice at either the time of disease onset or the conclusion of the trial. Similarly the reduction or increase in total Ig levels observed in all groups at the termination of the study was not significantly different from the levels assayed at the onset of disease. Therefore the data does not support a generalized immunosuppressive effect for the compound of Formula III but further study will be required to clarify the effect upon immunoglobulin production.

The levels of IL 1 IL 6 and TNF in terminal bleed sera produced universally low levels and revealed no variations attributable to the therapy. The standards for all the cytokines assayed yielded consistent and sensitive curves suggesting that the assay was accurate. However previous data has indicated that inflammatory cytokines are typically elevated in collagen arthritis although these levels can be variable. Further study will be required to establish whether the compound of Formula III exerts an anti arthritic effect via modulation of specific inflammatory cytokines

Lymph node cell responses to the mitogens Concanavalin A and LPS and the antigen response to type II collagen are shown in .

No significant variations in the response to Con A or type II collagen were observed between the treatment groups. A significant reduction p

Spleen cell responses to the mitogens Concanavalin A and LPS and the antigen response to type II collagen are shown in . No significant effects of any of the compounds administered were observed on the mitogen or antigen responses in spleen cells.

Eighty five male Syrian Golden hamsters FB strain BioBreeders Fitchburg Mass. approximately 8 10 weeks of age were acclimated to individual hanging polystyrene cages with bedding for 1 week and then fed a semipurified hypercholesterolemic diet HCD containing 25 casein 20 hydrogenated coconut oil 2 safflower oil and 0.15 cholesterol by weight for 2 weeks prior to initiation of the experimental treatments Table 1 . Hamsters were then bled Week 0 following an overnight fast 16 hr to determine plasma concentrations of total cholesterol HDL C nonHDL C and triglycerides and divided into 17 groups n 5 group with similar starting plasma HDL C levels and administered either compound of Formula II or vehicle once per day for 14 days.

Plasma total cholesterol HCL C nonHDL C and triglycerides were then measured at day 8 prior to gavage that day and at day 15 24 hr after last gavage following and overnight fast 16 hr . Hamsters were maintained in accordance with the guidelines of the Animal Care Committee at the University of Massachusetts Lowell Research Foundation and the guidelines prepared by the Committee on the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals of the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources National Research Council DHEW publication no 85 23 revised 1985 . Hamsters were housed in an environmentally controlled room with an alternating 12 h light dark cycle and given ad libitum access to food and water except when food is withheld for the experimental protocols.

Blood was collected via the retro orbital sinus into heparinized tubes from hamsters fasted for 16 h at days 0 8 and 15. Plasma was harvested after centrifugation at 1500 g at room temperature for 10 min and plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations were measured enzymatically. Plasma LDL cholesterol combination of very low density intermediate and low density lipoprotein cholesterol was precipitated with phosphotungstate reagent and HDL cholesterol was measured in the supernatant. The concentration of LDL cholesterol was calculated as the difference between plasma TC and HDL cholesterol. The accuracy and precision of the procedures used for the measurements of plasma TC and HDL cholesterol were maintained by participation in the Lipid Standardization Program of the Centers for Disease Control and the National Heart Blood and Lung Institute Atlanta Ga. . All reagents used were supplied by Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . All assays were performed using a Cobas Mira Plus Cobas Mira Plus is a registered trademark of Roche Diagnostic Systems Inc. clinical chemistry autoanalyzer using 10 l of plasma for each sample Roche Pharmaceuticals Basel Switzerland .

At day 0 all groups were sorted based on similar plasma nonHDL cholesterol and total cholesterol concentrations and body weights. At day 8 of treatment the compound of Formula III administered at a concentration of 0.9 1.8 and 3.6 mg kg resulted in plasma total cholesterol changes of 27 17 and 21 respectively compared to vehicle control plasma nonHDL C changes of 36 24 and 26 respectively compared to vehicle control plasma HDL C changes of 2 7 and 4 respectively compared to vehicle control and plasma triglycerides changes of 37 14 and 20 respectively compared to vehicle control. Thus the compounds of the invention are useful for the reduction of lipid profiles of patients.

The compound of Formula III 10.0 g is mixed with lactose 85.5 g hydroxypropyl cellulose HPC SL 2.0 g hydroxypropyl cellulose L HPC LH 22 2.0 g and purified water 9.0 g the resulting mixture is subjected to granulation drying and grading and the thus obtained granules are mixed with magnesium stearate 0.5 g and subjected to tablet making thereby obtaining tablets containing 10 mg per tablet of the compound of Formula III.

The tablet prepared in Example 5 is provided to a subject at time 0. One tablet every 24 h is provided for a period of one week. After administration of the third tablet the subject is exposed to a neurodegenerative event. The treated subject exhibits symptoms of neurological disorder that are less severe compared to the subject that was not treated.

All printed patents and publications referred to in this application are hereby incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

