---

title: Integration layer for a data repository
abstract: Techniques for a data repository, e.g., a data warehouse, connect multiple disparate systems and combine different software tools to provide a full view of the data warehouse for an end user. An inventory tool integration and services interface includes a tool integration component, a common data component, and an inventory services component. The tool integration component obtains data sets from different tools. The common data component converts each data set and combines the converted data sets. The inventory services component provides the combined data sets through a user interface for an end user. The inventory tool integration and services interface appropriately combines data sets and supports different user interfaces for different end users having different roles within an enterprise. The tool and services integration interface also may obtain a data set from a tool in accordance with an integration option.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321438&OS=08321438&RS=08321438
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08321438
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
Aspects of the invention generally relate to supporting a main data repository e.g. data warehouse for an organization s data.

In order to store historical data a business enterprise spanning different business units may maintain an enterprise data warehouse. The data warehouse is typically a large strategic data repository and reporting system that is critical to the enterprise and that supports different organizations within the business a view of data across different business units. A data warehouse typically connects multiple disparate systems without an end to end view. e.g. a line of business or a portfolio view. Costly customization of vendor tools may be required for end to end usage. An analytical tool set within a data warehouse environment is often crowded and overly complex where the tools satisfy individual requirements for data warehouse management. However it is the conglomeration of these tools into a central operating environment that is often lacking.

The data warehouse typically accesses numerous data sources through different tools for different end users where an end user is associated with a role within the enterprise. However an end user is typically required to interact with different tools necessitating that the end user be knowledgeable about each tool. Moreover if a tool is replaced by a corresponding tool of a different vendor or if a tool is added to the collection of supported tools the end user often needs to be trained to use the new tool.

The present disclosure addresses one or more of the issues mentioned above by disclosing methods computer readable media and apparatuses for a data warehouse that combines different software tools and connects multiple disparate systems to provide a full view of the data warehouse for an end user.

With another aspect of the invention inventory tool integration and services interface integration layer includes a tool integration component a common data component and an inventory services component. The tool integration component obtains data sets from different tools. The common data component converts each data set and combines the converted data sets. Data sets may be linked in accordance with a common data model and the data sets may be merged. The inventory services components provides the combined data sets to a user interface for an end user. The inventory tool integration and services interface appropriately combines data sets and supports different user interfaces for different end users having different roles within an enterprise.

With another aspect of the invention the tool integration and services integration interface obtains a data set from a tool in accordance with an integration option. Integration options may include an application programming interface API extensible markup language XML and web services.

With another aspect of the invention data sources for the data warehouse may be consolidated. Duplicity of data that is stored in the data sources is reduced. In addition data may be removed when the data is not accessed for a predetermined period of time.

Aspects of the invention may be provided in a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the process steps described herein.

These and other aspects of the invention are discussed in greater detail throughout this disclosure including the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention methods computer readable media and apparatuses are disclosed in which a data warehouse combines different software tools tools and connects multiple disparate systems to provide a full view of the data warehouse for an end user.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

With reference to the computing system environment may include a computing device wherein the processes discussed herein may be implemented. The computing device may have a processor for controlling overall operation of the computing device and its associated components including RAM ROM communications module and memory . Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise and combination of computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by computing device .

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. Modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Although not shown RAM may include one or more are applications representing the application data stored in RAM memory while the computing device is on and corresponding software applications e.g. software tasks are running on the computing device .

Communications module may include a microphone keypad touch screen and or stylus through which a user of computing device may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output.

Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling computing device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the computing device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Alternatively some or all of the computer executable instructions for computing device may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown . Database may provide centralized storage of pre clearance information or trading information for security equities in different jurisdictions.

Computing device may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computing devices such as branch terminals and . The branch computing devices and may be personal computing devices or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device .

The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment computing device is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter in the communications module . When used in a WAN networking environment the server may include a modem in the communications module or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computing devices may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed and the system can be operated in a client server configuration to permit a user to retrieve web pages from a web based server. Any of various conventional web browsers can be used to display and manipulate data on web pages.

Additionally one or more application programs used by the computing device according to an illustrative embodiment may include computer executable instructions for invoking user functionality related to communication including for example email short message service SMS and voice input and speech recognition applications.

Embodiments of the invention may include forms of computer readable media. Computer readable media include any available media that can be accessed by a computing device . Computer readable media may comprise storage media and communication media. Storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions object code data structures program modules or other data. Communication media include any information delivery media and typically embody data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism.

Although not required one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various aspects described herein may be embodied as a method a data processing system or as a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions. For example a computer readable medium storing instructions to cause a processor to perform steps of a method in accordance with aspects of the invention is contemplated. For example aspects of the method steps disclosed herein may be executed on a processor on a computing device . Such a processor may execute computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium.

Referring to an illustrative system for implementing methods according to the present invention is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same. Server may be used to process the instructions received from and the transactions entered into by one or more participants.

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links and the like.

System may include a mainframe computer not shown and or a plurality of servers e.g. server and server where each server may provide different services to a user.

As understood by those skilled in the art the steps that follow in the Figures may be implemented by one or more of the components in and or other components including other computing devices.

With an aspect of the invention systems or may support a data warehouse which may be described as a computing system that is used to store information regarding an organization s activities in a database designed specifically for the purpose of analyzing that information to gain strategic information or strategic reporting. Enterprise data warehouses are often critical strategic data repository and reporting systems that strive to provide organizations with a single complete view of data across different business units and information technology IT systems enabling better informed faster business decisions while managing growth and stability.

A data warehouse is a repository of an organization s electronically stored data e.g. an organization s historical data and is designed to facilitate reporting and analysis. Also the means to retrieve and analyze data to extract transform and load data and to manage dictionary data may be considered components of a data warehousing system. Consequently a definition for data warehousing may be expanded to include business intelligence tools tools to extract transform and load data into the repository and tools to manage and retrieve metadata.

A data warehouse is typically used for collective processing. Computing in a data warehouse is often referred to as on line analytical processing OLAP contrasting it to on line transaction processing OLTP used for normal business activities. Data from enterprise resource planning ERP systems and other related business software systems may be periodically imported into the data warehouses for further processing.

With data system the end user directly interfaces with one or more tools and . For example end user interacts with tool to obtain data from data sources and and with tool to obtain data from data sources and . Consequently end user is often required to be knowledgeable about specific commands for tools and . If a tool is replaced with another product a different command set may be used thus requiring the end user to be retrained for the new tool. Also if the end user wishes to access data from a different data source the end user may need to interface to an additional tool. For example if end user wishes to access data from data source end user needs to utilize tool .

Inventory hub is able to support different end users by providing data from different data sources that are needed to support the role of each group of end users.

Tools and may be selected as the best of breed tools and are situated at the bottom layer interfacing with the data warehouse. Individual end users and are situated at the top layer making the requests for reports views metrics and the like. Tool integration and services interface is situated between the top and bottom layers combining the functionality of multiple tool sets. End user or perceives that only a single tool is being utilized rather than many tools that tool integration and services interface is actually interacting with.

Tool integration and services interface leverages and combines different and separate vendor products and tools and . While explicitly shows only three tools embodiments can support a different number of tools. Tool integration and services interface allows the creation of a holistic end to end data warehouse management solution that provides profile driven views of the business operation of the data warehouse and transparency across the vendor products.

Tool integration and services interface provides the ability to combine all vendor products together and connects multiple disparate systems that make up the full view of the data warehouse. Tool integration and services interface pulls data from multiple data sources e.g. data sources and into one inventory view in accordance with integration hub . Typically an off the shelf vendor solution does not meet all of the requirements of a data warehouse and does not correlate information in a user defined context such as a line of business view or a portfolio view. Consequently considerable customization of these existing vendor tools may be required.

The analytical tool set within a data warehouse environment is often crowded and overly complex. Tools and satisfy individual requirements for data warehouse management. Tool integration and services interface conglomerates tools and into a central operating environment that is typically lacking with prior art.

With an aspect of the invention data sources are consolidated so that a data source interacts with only one tool e.g. data source and tool rather than a data source interacting with a plurality data sources e.g. data source interacting with tools and as shown in . Data sources may be consolidated so that the content of a plurality of data sources is contained at a single data source. Also duplicity of data from a plurality of data sources may be reduced or even eliminated.

System assists in identifying situations in which the same data replicated across the data warehouse. With an embodiment approximately 20 25 of the data may be duplicated without data consolidation in data sources and . Also system analyzes usage patterns to assist in understanding the usage patterns including the amount of information history that is accessed enabling the reduction of on line storage of data and the cost to business partners in some embodiments providing a 30 to 35 reduction . System also assists in understanding the entities and attributes that are accessed. When entities and attributes are not accessed for at least a predetermined time duration the corresponding information can be removed from the data sources and in some embodiments providing approximately 20 to 25 reduction .

Because the date warehouse environment within a company is often very complex the operating risks and costs may be dramatically increased. The impact of this inefficiency affects critical quality metrics such as speed costs and risks and the inability to accurately measure. By reducing complexity and elimination of duplicate systems of record i.e. individual areas maintaining their own data warehouses the company may benefit from substantial productivity savings.

Data warehouse may also support a distributed computer architecture having a plurality of data servers and or mainframe computer so that different metrics may be supported for the different architectures.

In addition the integration hub e.g. as supported by tool integration and services interface may include business logic and allow for services for data extraction.

Tool integration and services interface may support a business organization that manages a data warehouse that has multiple disparate data sources feeding its data store with heterogeneous systems where information flow needs to be understood end to end and where best of breed products are used.

Tool integration and services interface includes tool integration component common data component and inventory services component . Tool integration component obtains data data sets from tools and and presents the data to common data component . Each data set is obtained from a corresponding tool. In the disclosure herein a data set pertains to a collection of data provided by a tool.

Consequently common data component converts each data set in accordance with common data model e.g. data model and combines one or more data sets for each end user e.g. end user and end user . Normalization of redundant data and relational referencing are fundamental characteristics of the common data model. Application system information includes key elements used across the data warehouse environment. That information can be combined or normalized into a single table utilized across the system.

Because different end users may have different rules the corresponding combined data sets may be different for the different end users. The combined data sets are presented to inventory services component . Inventory services component includes combined data sets in a user interface to provide a tailored user format and interaction for a specific end user. Different end users may be provided with different combined data sets in the corresponding user interface to support the corresponding role of the end user.

The inventory services component can provide common services or Application Programming Interfaces that are consumable by the tool clients end users. These interfaces can be the primary mechanism to populate the data model and provide the end user with inventory management data and information. For example an end user Extract Transform and Load ETL tool may need application system information. It can call the inventory services component to get application system information residing in the shared data model.

Tool integration component may interact with tools and using different integration options to obtain data including an application programming interface API extensible markup language XML and web services.

The integration of multiple component types e.g. API XML etc. . . . can be a dynamic action of the layer itself as these are tool specific integration methods that typically do not change. Therefore these components types can be built into the layer and the interface needed can be leveraged as required.

An application programming interface is typically a source code interface that an operating system library or service provides to support requests made by computer programs. An extensible markup language is a general purpose specification for creating custom markup languages and enables end users to define their own elements. One purpose of the API is to facilitate the sharing of structured data across between tools and and tool integration and services interface . XML may be used both to encode documents and to serialize data. A web service may be defined as a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. Web services can be accessed by integration tool and services interface from tools and .

The domain model is extendable as the business need requires. Tools can be plugged into and out of the framework to support business and technology direction assuming standard interface compatibility.

As illustrated in domain model specifies the data content for each data element. For example job element which pertains to a specific job includes the job number and name the platform which is executing the job the parent number of the parent job if a parent job exists and the owner of the job e.g. different data elements are related to each other. For example job data element is related to job metrics data element and to systems data element and SLA data element is related to SLA metrics data element and systems data element .

Aspects of the invention have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the invention.

