---

title: Explosion proof vehicle for tank inspection
abstract: An Explosion Proof Vehicle (EPV) having an interior substantially filled with an inert fluid creating an interior pressure greater than the exterior pressure. One or more flexible tubes provide the inert fluid and one or more electrical conductors from a control system to the vehicle. The vehicle is preferably used in subsurface tank inspection, whereby the vehicle is submerged in a volatile fluid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08122780&OS=08122780&RS=08122780
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 08122780
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080320
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance.

The present invention relates to an Explosion Proof Vehicle. Preferably the present invention relates to an Explosion Proof Vehicle for in situ inspection of a subsurface tank containing a volatile fluid the vehicle being submersible in the volatile fluid.

Subsurface tanks containing volatile fluids must be periodically inspected for safety. As the tanks contain volatile fluid care must be taken to prevent any electrical charges or even relatively small amounts of light from entering the tank while the volatile fluids are present. Consequently to inspect subsurface storage tanks the tanks are generally first drained cleaned and ventilated and then visually inspection by inspection personnel.

Current methods of inspecting tanks such as those which enclose petroleum or other caustic chemicals especially large tanks are very expensive generally costing more than 250 000 depending upon the size of the tank. Unfortunately the tank is rendered unserviceable for a month or more as the tank is drained ventilated and thereafter inspected. Worse yet many subsurface tanks are inadequately tested due to the complexity and cost of testing increasing the risk of severe safety concerns to the environment and personal in the area as well as contamination of the tank contents.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 863 hereby fully incorporated by reference describes a vehicle capable of operating in a volatile fluid. This vehicle uses wheels magnetically coupled to a metal tank. In an emergency the wheels are magnetically decoupled from the tank and a retrieval balloon filled by an inert gas from a pressurized gas container within the vehicle increases the buoyancy of the vehicle and therefore propelling it upwards. The interior of the vehicle is pressurized with an inert gas to prevent an internal explosion. In the event of a leak the inert gas will flow outward into the volatile fluid and the vehicle will power off to prevent explosion. Unfortunately once a leak occurs in the vehicle and the vehicle is powered down it must be manually extracted. Generally this will require the user to physically pull the vehicle up by its cabling. Furthermore the exposure of the interior components of the vehicle to the volatile fluid even if the vehicle is powered down may be detrimental posing safety risks or causing undesirable reactions such as corrosion of the interior components.

Unfortunately the vehicle described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 863 may get stuck under various obstacles within the tank whereby the vehicle must be abandoned or physically extracted by the operator generally by dismantling the tank. Furthermore the vehicle described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 863 uses magnetically coupled wheels making the vehicle unusable in non magnetic tanks. The magnetically coupled wheels limit the operator s perspective which may be optimal when the vehicle is unattached from the tank wall.

Other attempts have been made to create a vehicle for tank inspection however these vehicles generally do not have measures to prevent explosion creating severe safety risks when used in explosive environments if the tank is not completely emptied and vented before inspection.

Unfortunately current devices and methods for the inspection of volatile tanks are cost prohibitive and time consuming leading to sever safety risks. Although there has been some progress with in situ subsurface tank inspection vehicles current devices and methods have been ineffective due to a lack of versatility and reliable extraction.

An Explosion Proof Vehicle EPV having an interior and an exterior. The interior is substantially filled with an inert fluid and maintained at a pressure greater than the exterior pressure. One or more flexible tubes provide the inert fluid and one or more electrical conductors from a control system to the vehicle. The vehicle is preferably used in subsurface tank inspection whereby the vehicle is submerged in a volatile fluid.

One embodiment of the present inventions provides a means for tanks storing volatile fluid to be inspected by a device which may be submerged in the volatile fluid and capable of inspecting the tank for conditions which could potentially impair the integrity of the tank without the need to drain the tanks contents.

An Explosion Proof Vehicle EPV having an Interior and Exterior. The Interior is substantially filled with an Inert Fluid creating an Interior Pressure greater than the Exterior Pressure. One or more Flexible Tubes provides the Inert Fluid and one or more Electrical Conductors from a Control System to the Vehicle. The Vehicle is preferably used in subsurface Tank inspection whereby the Vehicle is submerged in a Volatile Fluid.

One embodiment of the Vehicle comprises a Control System a Moving Means a Pressure Controlling Means a Transmitting Means a Receiving Means and a Spark Reducing Means. The Pressure Controlling Means creates and maintains the Interior pressure of the Vehicle using an Inert Fluid supplied by a Supply Means. The Spark Reducing Means minimizes sparking at the Exterior of the Vehicle for example sparking between the Vehicle and a Tank. The Transmitting Means transmits a signal which is received by the Receiving Means and used to provide information about the area surrounding the Vehicle.

In the embodiment shown in the one or more Electrical Conductors preferably connect the Control System to the various electronics internal to the Vehicle and pass into the one or more Flexible Tubes at an non submersed area of the one or more Tubes . The non submersed area is an area of the one or more Tubes which will not be exposed to the Volatile Fluid . Therefore the one or more Wires do not have to be designed for use while submersed in the Volatile Fluid which may pose as a serious explosive danger. Preferably in this embodiment the one or more Wires pass into the interior of the one or more Flexible Tubes and remain in the interior of the one or more Flexible Tubes until they exit the one or more Flexible Tubes and pass into the Interior .

In the alternative the one or more Wires are designed for submersion within the Volatile Fluid of the Tank and pass into the one or more Tubes while submersed in the Volatile Fluid . In yet another embodiment the one or more Wires are designed for submersion within the Volatile Fluid of the Tank and pass directly into Vehicle .

The Tank is any means know in the art to hold the Volatile Fluid . Tank material and design depend upon the Volatile Fluid . In a preferred embodiment the Tank is a carbon steel tank having an interior with an epoxy coating. Preferably the Tank is buried underground and the Volatile Fuel is gasoline.

The Volatile Fluid is preferably any fluid that is flammable explosive corrosive or a combination thereof. Examples of Volatile Fluids include but are not limited to jet fuel naphtha gasoline and diesel as well others known in the art.

The Outer Shell is preferably any material suitable for submersion in the Volatile Fluid . Preferably the Outer Shell is made of a metal ceramic or plastic. In a preferred embodiment the Outer Shell is made of a metal. Preferably the Outer Shell is optimized to minimize interaction with the Volatile Fluid for example corrosion and explosions.

Preferably the Outer Shell prevents the Volatile Fluid from passing into the Interior the Inert Fluid from passing into the Exterior or a combination thereof. More preferably the Outer Shell prevents the Volatile Fluid from passing into the Interior and prevents the Inert Fluid from passing into the Exterior . In an alternative embodiment the Outer Shell has a Sealing Layer which prevents the Volatile Fluid from passing into the Interior the Inert Fluid from passing into the Exterior or a combination thereof.

The Pressure Controlling Means maintains the Interior of the Vehicle at a pressure above the Exterior pressure of the Vehicle . The Pressure Controlling Means uses the Inert Fluid supplied by the Supply Means to maintain the pressure of the Interior of the Vehicle above the pressure of the Exterior of the Vehicle . Maintaining a higher Interior pressure of the Vehicle insures that any leakage will occur outwardly into the Exterior instead of the Volatile Fluid dangerously leaking inwards into the Interior . Therefore upon a breach of the Sealing Means between the Interior and the Exterior the Inert Fluid will leak outward into the Volatile Fluid .

If the Interior pressure of the Vehicle is allowed to drop below the Exterior pressure of the Vehicle the various components inside the Interior of the Vehicle will need to be designed to avoid interaction with the Volatile Fluid . For example the various components will need to resist any corrosive effects of the Volatile Fluid while also preventing any sparking or heat generation which could cause an explosion in the presence of the Volatile Fluid .

Preferably the Pressure Controlling Means has a means for increasing and decreasing the Interior pressure. As the Vehicle submerges in the Volatile Fluid it may be desirable to increase and decrease the Interior pressure of the Vehicle in relationship to Exterior pressure of the Vehicle as the Exterior pressure of the Vehicle will vary according to the depth of the Vehicle in the Volatile Fluid and density of the Volatile Fluid . Preferably to reduce the Interior of the Vehicle the Inert Fluid is expelled outwardly into the Volatile Fluid . In one preferred embodiment the expelled Inert Fluid is used to help move or stabilize the Vehicle . More preferably to reduce the Interior of the Vehicle the Inert Fluid is recycled back to the Supply Means . In a preferred embodiment the Pressure Controlling Means is a computer including microcontrollers field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other electronic and mechanical calculating means controlled butterfly valve.

The Transmitting Means produces a signal which is received by the Receiving Means . Preferably the signal produced by the Transmitting Means is generated at the Vehicle but in the alternative the signal is produced outside of the Vehicle . Preferably the Transmitting Means is a light source a radio frequency source a sound source or a combination there of as well as any other radiation source. Preferably the Transmitting Means provides infrared or visible light. Care must be taken to insure the light and any heat generated in the production of the light does not interact with the Volatile Fluid . In one embodiment a low power LED light emitting diode is used to generate light which is detected by the Receiving Means . In a preferred embodiment light is generated outside the Tank and away from the presence of the Volatile Fluid e.g. the embodiment shown in .

In a preferred embodiment the Transmitting Means produces an ultrasound signal at the Vehicle which is detected by the Receiving Means . In an alternate embodiment the Transmitting Means produces an ultrasound signal outside the Vehicle which is detected by the Receiving Means .

Preferably the Transmitting Means uses one or more Sonar Transducers electrically connected to Sonar Electronic and flexibly connected to the Vehicle extending outward into the Volatile Fluid . The flexibility of the Sonar Transducer allows the Vehicle to pass through tight spaces for example the entrance hatch of a Tank . The Sonar Transducer is preferably made of a material resistant to the Volatile Fluid or more preferably protected using a coating or a sealed apparatus from the Volatile Fluid . For example in a preferred embodiment the Sonar Transducer is placed in a plastic sheath designed to be resistant to the Volatile Fluid while also minimizing any signal attenuation of the Sonar Transducer. In an alternate embodiment the Sonar Transducer is coated with a coating resistant to the Volatile Fluid while also minimizing any signal attenuation of the Sonar Transducer.

When the Transmitting Means uses one or more Sonar Transducers Sonar Electronics preferably generate the signal passed to the Sonar Transducers for the generation of sonar within the Volatile Fluid . Preferably the Sonar Electronics are integrated into the Control System which is connected to the Sonar Transducer by the one or more Wires . In the alternative the Sonar Electronics can be placed in the Interior of the Vehicle however it is preferable to integrate the Sonar Electronics in the Control System in order to reduce the Vehicle size and weight as well as reduce the risk of exposing the Sonar Electronics to the Volatile Fluid .

The Receiving Means is a device capable of detecting the signal generated by Transmitting Means . An image of the Volatile Fluid the interior of the Tank or a combination thereof is preferably generated by information from the Receiving Means . In a preferred embodiment light from the Transmitting Means is detected by the Receiving Means and used to construct an image at the Control System .

The Receiving Means is preferably a camera more preferably a CCD camera. Preferably the Receiving Means is a camera attached to the Vehicle but in the alternative may be a camera exterior to the Vehicle . In one embodiment the Receiving Means is a portable camera submersible in the Volatile Fluid .

Preferably the signal produced by the Transmitting Means is detected by the Receiving Means at the Vehicle but in the alternative the signal is received outside of the Vehicle . In one embodiment one or more receivers are positioned atop the Tank are used to detect the signals generated by the Transmitting Means . In a preferred embodiment three or more detectors are used to triangulate the location of the Vehicle form a signal produced at the Vehicle .

In one embodiment The Receiving Means is an array of receivers capable of constructing an image of the Volatile Fluid the interior of the Tank or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the Receiving Means is a 3 3 ultrasound transducer array which receives a signal produced by the Transmitting Means . In this embodiment a computer including microcontrollers field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other electronic and mechanical calculating means constructs an image from the signal received by the array. In this embodiment the computer in real time adds the signals received by the array while taking into account the delay of the signal in the Volatile Fluid . Therefore the signal direction can be determined and an enhanced image using the aggregate of a ultrasound transducers can be constructed. Preferably the frequency the amplitude or a combination thereof of the signal is used to construct a colorized image.

The Control System controls the various components of the Vehicle . Preferably the Control System controls the various components of the Vehicle without user intervention but may require some operator interaction. The Control System is preferably a computer including microcontrollers field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other electronic and mechanical calculating means .

The one or more Supply Tubes transfers of the Inert Fluid from the Supply Means to the Pressure Controlling Means . Suitable Supply Tubes include but are not limited to pipes tubes channels etc. . . .

The one or more Supply Tubes are preferably made out of plastics ceramics metals or combinations thereof. Preferably the one or more Supply Tubes are rigid but in the alternative the one or more Supply Tubes may be flexible or have flexible couplings. In yet another embodiment the one or more Supply Tubes are the same type of tubes as used for the one or more Flexible Tubes .

The one or more Flexible Tubes allows the transfer of the Inert Fluid from the Pressure Controlling Means to the Vehicle while also transferring various electrical signals from the Control System through the one or more Electrical Conductors . Suitable one or more Flexible Tubes include but are not limited to pipes tubes channels etc. . . .

The one or more Flexible Tubes are preferably made so as to not react with the Volatile Fluid or protected using a coating or a sealed apparatus from the Volatile Fluid . For example in a preferred embodiment the one or more Flexible Tubes are placed in a plastic sheath designed to be resistant to the Volatile Fluid . In an alternate embodiment the one or more Flexible Tubes are coated with a coating resistant to the Volatile Fluid while also minimizing any signal attenuation of the Sonar Transducer. The one or more Flexible Tubes are preferably made out of plastics ceramics metals or combinations thereof. Preferably the one or more Tubes are flexible but alternatively may be one or more rigid tubes having flexible couplings.

The Supply Means supplies the Inert Fluid into the one or more Supply Tubes . The Supply Means is preferably optimized for pumping the Inert Fluid .

The Inert Fluid is a fluid which is not explosive in the environment provided by the Interior of the Vehicle and will not pose as a serious environmental or safety risk when exposed to the Volatile Fluid . Preferably the Inert Fluid is a welding gas a noble gas or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the Inert Fluid is nitrogen or argon more preferably nitrogen.

The one or more Electrical Conductors transfer an electrical signal from the Control System to the various components within the Vehicle . Preferably the one or more Electrical Conductors are one or more electrically conductive wires. In the alternative the one or more Electrical Conductors are any means of transferring the electrical signal for example electrically conductive channels within the one or more Flexible Tubes .

In the alternative other signals may be used instead of electrical signals for example light or radio waves may be used to transfer signals from the Control System to the various components within the Vehicle . In one embodiment one or more optical fiber cable waveguide light channels radio frequency channels electrical channels or a combination thereof are used to transfer signals from the Control System to the various components within the Vehicle .

The Moving Means is any means known in the art to move the Vehicle . Preferably the Moving Means is one or more wheels jets turbines guides fins magnets etc. or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the magnetic wheels described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 863 are used as the Moving Means . In another embodiment one or more motors connected to one or more turbines on the Exterior of the Vehicle are used to propel the Vehicle in the Volatile Fluid . In yet another embodiment wheels are placed on the Bottom of the Outer Shell allowing the Vehicle to move. In another embodiment one or more jets expelling the Inert Fluid are used to move the Vehicle .

Stepper Motors may be used in a Moving Means the Filling Means or any other component within the Interior of the Vehicle . These Stepper Motors may have difficulty operating at distances over 100 ft. To alleviate this problem the various electronics for the Stepper Motors may be positioned inside the Interior . However it is preferable to position the various Stepper Motor electronics outside of the Vehicle as much as possible to prevent electrical noise and to minimize the Vehicle size and weight.

In a preferred embodiment the electrical connection between the Stepper Motor Electronic preferably the Control System and one or more Stepper Motors in the Vehicle are highly conductive electrical conductors. Preferably the electrical conductors are power conduction cables with a high number of large diameter copper strands. A highly conductive conductor will minimize line loss increasing the maximum cabling of the system. In one preferred embodiment having 100 feet or more of wires between the Control System one or more wires between the Control System and one or more stepper motors have a diameter of an inch or larger.

The Spark Reducing Means reduces the likelihood of an electrical breakdown between the Vehicle and the Tank . Preferably the Spark Reducing Means is one or more coatings having brass bronze aluminum TEFLON or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the Spark Reducing Means is a TEFLON coating doped with Carbon.

As the Inert Fluid is added or removed from the Inflatable Float the buoyancy of the Vehicle is increased or decreased respectively thereby propelling the Vehicle upwards or downwards. In this embodiment when an upward movement is desired the Control System preferably signals a Filling Means to supply the Inert Fluid to the Inflatable Float .

Preferably the Filling Means directs a Flotation Fluid preferably the Inert Fluid from the Supply Means into the Inflatable Float as directed by the Control System .

In the alternative the Filling Means may supply a Flotation Fluid that is not necessarily the Inert Fluid . The Flotation Fluid is a fluid which is not explosive in the environment provided by the Interior of the Vehicle and will not pose as a serious environmental or safety risk when exposed to the Volatile Fluid . Preferably the Flotation Fluid is a welding gas a noble gas or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the Flotation Fluid is nitrogen or argon more preferably nitrogen.

The one or more Internal Tubes allows the transfer of the Inert Fluid from the Filling Means to the Inflatable Float . Suitable one or more Internal Tubes include but are not limited to pipes tubes channels etc. . . . The one or more one or more Internal Tubes are preferably made out of plastics ceramics metals or combinations thereof. Preferably the one or more Internal Tubes are flexible but alternatively may be one or more rigid tubes having flexible couplings.

Preferably the one or more Internal Tubes are not exposed to the Volatile Fluid and run interior to the one or more Flexible Tubes . In this embodiment the Vehicle is only tethered to the one or more Flexible Tubes allowing for minimal interference with the maneuverability of the Vehicle . Furthermore if the one or more Internal Tubes are not exposed to the Volatile Fluid but run within the protection of the one or more Flexible Tubes they do not have to be resistant to the Volatile Fluid . Preferably the one or more Internal Tubes are inserted into the one or more Flexible Tubes a non submersed area .

In the alternative the one or more Internal Tubes may run exterior to the one or more Flexible Tubes and are designed to prevent reaction with the Volatile Fluid .

The Inflatable Float or other Containing Means expands in the Volatile Fluid as it is filled by the Inert Fluid . As the Inflatable Float expands the Vehicle is propelled upwards by the increased buoyancy. Likewise the Inflatable Float can propel the Vehicle downwards by deflating the Inflatable Float thereby decreasing the buoyancy of the Inflatable Float . Preferably the Inert Fluid from the Inflatable Float is vented into the Volatile Fluid or more preferably recycled back into the Filling Means .

The Inflatable Float can be very beneficial in situations where the Vehicle can get snagged on roof pillars piping inlets or fall into a tank sump. In these situations it can be extremely difficult to extract the Vehicle . By increasing the buoyancy of the Vehicle it can be easily lifted thereby reducing tension in the Flexible Tubes allowing the Vehicle to be more easily moved.

In the embodiment shown in the functions of the Supply Means the Pressure Controlling Means of are combined into the Control System whereby the Control System supplies an Inert Fluid through one or more Flexible Tubes to the Vehicle while maintaining the pressure of the Interior of the Vehicle above the pressure of the Exterior . The Control System also acts as the Filling Means providing the Inert Fluid to the Inflatable Float .

The Vehicle in the embodiment shown in uses the Turbine and Wheels shown in the Inflatable Float shown in as well as a Weight connected to the Bottom of the Outer Shell and a Cleaning Brush attached to the front of the Vehicle .

The Weight is positioned in the Vehicle to evenly distribute the weight in the Vehicle in order to stabilize the movement of the Vehicle . Preferably the Weight has a high mass to volume ration to minimize the space utilized within the Interior of the Vehicle . Preferably the Weight is lead iron steel or a combination thereof.

The Cleaning Brush prevents sediments or other items from interfering with the inspection of the Tank as well as the movement of the Vehicle . The Cleaning Brush is constructed from non sparking materials. In a preferred embodiment the Cleaning Brush is brass bristles attached to the Vehicle with an aluminum bracket and bronze screws.

In this embodiment the Receiving Means of the Vehicle is preferably one or more Light Sensors on the Vehicle that are used for capturing an image of said illuminated Volatile Fluid said Tank or a combination thereof. Preferably the one or more Light Sensors are used to construct one or more images of the Tank .

Each Light Pipe from the one or more Light Pipes is preferably a metal tube having a reflective interior and an exterior coated with a conductive Teflon or plastic.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

