---

title: Computerized community communication and collaboration
abstract: A computerized collaboration system includes a core corpus of community-communication modules. Each of the community-communication modules may be propagated to a syndicate of portals that subscribe to that community-communication module. Further, upon receiving an update to a community-communication module from a portal of a syndicate subscribing to the community-communication module, the community-communication module may be modified according to the update and an updated version of the community-communication module may be propagated to all portals of the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community-communication module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560603&OS=08560603&RS=08560603
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08560603
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080602
---
In an educational environment individuals may gather together to form a community in order to foster communication and collaboration among the individuals. A computerized version of an educational community may be embodied by a community website hosting one or more references such as message boards wikis blogs catalogs of learning assets etc. An individual may teach other individuals of the community by contributing to references on the community website. Likewise an individual may learn from other individuals of the community by viewing the references on the community website.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

A computerized collaboration system includes a core corpus of community communication modules. Each of the community communication modules of the core corpus may be propagated to a syndicate of portals that subscribe to that community communication module. An update to a community communication module may be received from a portal of a syndicate subscribing to the community communication module. The community communication module may be modified according to the update. The modified version of the community communication module may then be propagated to all portals of the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module.

The present disclosure is directed to an approach for facilitating communication and collaboration between members of a network community. An online educational community is a nonlimiting example of a network community that may take advantage of such communication and collaboration. While described in the context of an online educational community below it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to online educational communities. To the contrary the computerized collaboration systems of the present disclosure may be used by virtually any network community.

Community exchange includes a core corpus generated through collaboration of members of the community. Core corpus may include one or more community communication modules that are accessible by community exchange . Each community communication module may include a web log a wiki a message board or some other mechanism that allows one or more members of a community to share information and or collaborate with other members of the community.

Community communication modules may facilitate collaboration by being configured to be viewed and or updated by members of the community remotely at one or more of the portals. In particular each of community communication modules may be configured for modular propagation to a syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module. As such each time a community communication module is updated the updated version of the community communication module may be propagated to all portals of the syndicate.

A first syndicate subscribing to community communication module A may include a first portal a second portal and a third portal . Since first portal second portal and third portal belong to first syndicate community communication module A may be viewed and updated at each of first portal second portal and third portal . Further upon acceptance of an update to community communication module A generated at one of the portals of first syndicate an updated version of community communication module A may be propagated to all portals of first syndicate namely first portal second portal and third portal .

A second syndicate subscribing to community communication module B may include first portal and second portal . Since first portal and second portal belong to second syndicate community communication module B may be viewed and or updated at each of first portal and second portal . Further upon acceptance of an update to community communication module B generated at one of the portals of second syndicate an updated version of community communication module B may be propagated to all portals of second syndicate namely first portal and second portal .

A third syndicate subscribing to community communication module N may include second portal and third portal . Since second portal and third portal belong to third syndicate community communication module N may be viewed and or updated at each of second portal and third portal . Further upon acceptance of an update to community communication module N generated at one of the portals of third syndicate an updated version of community communication module N may be propagated to all portals of third syndicate namely second portal and third portal .

It will be appreciated that in the above described example a portal may subscribe to a plurality of syndicates in order to view and or update different community communication modules. As shown in first portal may include community communication module A and community communication module B as well as non community content . Non community content may include content from sources other than core corpus such as content from a third party website for example. Second portal may include community communication module A community communication module B and community communication module N. Third portal may include community communication module A and community communication module N.

In one particular nonlimiting example the community communication modules correspond to pedagogical skills. As an example community communication module A may include a high level message board related to the skill of math community communication module B may include a more focused message board related to the math skill of calculus and community communication module N may include a high level message board related to the skill of science. Further the first portal may be a website of a math department at a university the second portal may be a website of a student attending the university and the third portal may be a general college level educational website.

In this particular example the first portal i.e. the math department website may belong to syndicates subscribing to the math and calculus message boards to serve as references for students and professors. The math and calculus message boards at the first portal may provide students the opportunity to post questions or discussion topics that may be answered by teachers or other students. The first portal allows the students to update both the math and calculus message boards from the same location e.g. website . In other words a student can use two completely different message boards from the same portal without having to navigate directly to either of the message boards.

Likewise the first portal may provide the professors the opportunity to update the math and calculus message boards with answers to the students questions without having to navigate directly to either of the message boards.

As discussed above in the context of the math and calculus message boards a single portal can provide access to a community communication module from a single location e.g. website . A portal may further present site specific content outside the scope of that offered via any of the community communication modules. For example the first portal may present themed content relevant to a particular school or private content a particular school does not want to share with the community or store in the core corpus. As another example the first portal may present math related content from a source outside of the community such as listings of math fellowship and research opportunities that may only be relevant to students and teachers at a particular location.

The second portal i.e. the student s website may subscribe to the math calculus and science message boards to serve as study references for the student or others interacting with the student website because the student is attending a calculus class and a science class. The math calculus and science message boards at the second portal may provide the student the opportunity to view and or update the math calculus and science message boards without having to navigate directly to each of the message boards.

The third portal i.e. the college level educational website may subscribe to the math and science message boards to serve as references for any member interacting with the third portal such as students and or professors from various universities. The math and science message boards at the third portal may provide a member with the opportunity to view and or update the message boards without having to navigate directly to each of the message boards.

By enabling different community communication modules to be included in a single portal via subscription to one or more syndicates a subset of community communication modules may be selected according to the requisites of a member or group of members. In other words each portal can be customized to include only those community communication modules in which a member or group of members is interested. Each portal can serve as launch pad for any number of different research collaboration communication or other activities supported by the various community communication modules to which the portal subscribes. In this way the focus and efficiency of communication and collaboration of members of a community may be improved. Moreover because the community communication modules are stored in a centralized location i.e. the core corpus and propagated to portals via syndication the portals need not be required to have resources and tools to host a plurality of collaborative references.

Each portal may be built in virtually any manner desired. The look feel and or non community content of a portal need not be constrained by any particular conventions. As an example a portal need not be manifested in a web browser but instead may be accessible from a rich client or a mobile device. As described below one or more community communication modules may effectively be plugged in to the portal in a modular manner. In this way a portal may maintain autonomy with respect to the community exchange while at the same time enjoying the benefits of one or more of the community communication modules.

It will be appreciated that a portal may include virtually any type of website or other content distribution mechanism accessible via the Internet and or another network using virtually any type of remote access application e.g. a web browser . As another example a portal may include a non browser format such as a mobile website displayable on a mobile device. Further it will be appreciated that a portal may include non community content e.g. local and or remote content not originating at the community exchange nor delivered via a community communication module . Further still it will be appreciated that a community communication module need not be a message board but may be virtually any type of communicative and or collaborative reference such as a web log a.k.a. a blog or a wiki for example.

In some embodiments a community communication module may be classified as public private or hybrid. A public community communication module may be configured to permit viewing and updating by all portals or members . A private community communication module may be configured to permit viewing only by portals or members of a syndicate subscribing to that community communication module and may be configured to permit updating only by portals or members or select portal s or select member s of a syndicate subscribing to that community communication module. A hybrid community communication module may be configured to permit viewing by all portals or members and may be configured to permit updating only by portals or members or select portal s or select member s of a syndicate subscribing to that community communication module. It will be appreciated that in some cases private and or hybrid community communication modules may be viewable only at subscribing portals and may not be viewable at the community exchange based on the permissions of the community communication module.

Sequence diagram begins at where an update to community communication module A is generated at the first portal and sent to the community exchange. In some cases upon receiving an update at the community exchange a portal or member who authored the update may be authenticated by the community exchange prior to modifying the community communication module. For example a portal or author may be authenticated if the community communication module is classified as being private or hybrid. In some embodiments authentication of a portal or member may be performed upon opting into a syndicate or creating a community communication module and an authenticated portal or member may be granted the ability to provide updates to a community communication module.

In some cases upon receiving an update at the community exchange the content of the update may be authenticated by the community exchange prior to modifying the community communication module. For example the content of the update may be authenticated for accuracy or relevance. Thus at the community exchange may selectively authenticate the update to community communication module A the first portal and or a member interacting with the first portal.

At community communication module A may be modified according to the update and stored in the core corpus. At the updated version of community communication module A may be propagated to all portals of the syndicate of portals subscribing to community communication module A. In particular the updated version of community communication module A may be propagated to the first portal the second portal and the third portal.

Continuing with sequence diagram another example propagation sequence begins at where an update to community communication module N is generated at the second portal and sent to the community exchange. At the community exchange may selectively authenticate the update to community communication module N the second portal and or a member interacting with the second portal. At community communication module N may be modified according to the update and stored in the core corpus. At the updated version of community communication module N may be propagated to all portals of the syndicate of portals subscribing to community communication module N. In particular the updated version of community communication module N may be propagated to the second portal and the third portal. Because the first portal does not subscribe to community communication module N the update is not propagated to the first portal.

By syndicating a community communication module to a plurality of portals the community communication module may be updated at any of the portals of the syndicate. Further by propagating an updated version of a community communication module to each portal of the syndicate subscribing to the community communication module each portal may be automatically presented with the newest version of the community communication module without having to repeatedly check the community communication module for new content directly at the community exchange.

In the particular example of a message board the granularity of a community communication module may be further refined to specific posts and replies . Each post and reply may include a creation date identifier and or an author identifier . In some embodiments the author identifier may identify a portal. In some embodiments the author identifier may identify a member.

Subscription menu may offer an independently selectable subscription to each community communication module in the core corpus of community communication modules. Further subscription menu may be configured to facilitate subscription to different levels of a community communication module. For example a subscription may be created for a particular skill a skill level a topic etc. In the example of a message board the subscription may be configured to facilitate subscription to one or more different threads of the message board.

Furthermore subscription menu may be configured to facilitate subscription to a selected subset of different community communication modules in the core corpus of community communication modules. For example different types of community modules having a relationship may be selected for subscription. In one particular example a subscription to the topic of calculus that includes a message board and a blog relating to calculus may be created. In another particular example a subscription to a particular author may be created the subscription including the author s blog as well as all posts on message boards and wikis by the author.

Subscription menu may include a search engine having a search field the search engine being configured to search the core corpus of community communication modules and retrieve one or more community communication modules from the core corpus of community communication modules. In some embodiments the community communication modules are retrieved based on metadata that is tagged to the community communication modules. In particular a keyword may be entered into search field and the search engine may search the metadata for the keyword and retrieve the community communication modules having matching or relevant metadata. As an example the search engine may search the metadata based on one or more of pedagogical skill date of entry and identity of author or content thereof. The search engine may be used by members to find community communication modules relating to a desired topic in order to establish subscription and thereby customization of a particular portal. In some embodiments the search engine may be implemented as a community communication module so that the core corpus may be searched from a portal without having to navigate directly to the community exchange.

It should be understood that the above described subscription menu which is implemented using a graphical user interface is a nonlimiting example of possible subscription menus. A subscription menu may include any collection of two or more community communication modules. Further a subscription menu may allow for customized selection of the community communication modules via virtually any mechanism including but not limited to graphical user interfaces.

The syndication type list may include selections of different kinds of syndications. For example the syndication type list may include public private and hybrid types with full variation of permissions for public read public write private read private write or any combination thereof. It will be appreciated that other types of syndication may be included in the syndication type list.

The appearance type list may include selections of different kinds of themes. For example appearance type list may include a theme A a theme B and a theme C. As a particular example a theme may include a color scheme a font type a module size and a module layout. It will be appreciated that the appearance type list may include various other themes and or individual customizations that may be used to customize the appearance of a community communication module. In some embodiments a theme of a community communication module may be called by a script or other mechanism used by a portal to incorporate content from the community communication module into the portal.

As discussed above community communication modules of the core corpus may be tagged with metadata that may be organized according to a predefined schema. For example the schema may link metadata according to categories subjects and relationships. In the case where a created community communication module is classified as a private community communication module the private community communication module may be organized according to a schema that is defined by the subscribing syndicate. In one example private syndicate defined schema may include metadata that is organized according to the interests of the members of the subscribing syndicate. For example a private syndicate defined schema for one or more community communication modules associated with a university may include particular components that apply to the university such as different restrictions or added functionally based on the type of individual e.g. student professor administrator etc. interacting with the community communication module.

Creation menu may include a module generation selector . Module generation selector may be configured to initiate creation of a community communication module. In some embodiments module generation selector may be configured to generate a script that may be used to embed the newly created community communication on a portal. The script may be configured to syndicate functionality of a community communication module such as construction of message boards blogs wikis and catalogues of learning assets at a portal. In some examples the script is a hyper text markup language HTML script that can be incorporated into the HTML code that defines the portal. Such a script is a nonlimiting example of a modular way in which a portal e.g. a website can easily incorporate a community communication module while maintaining content and design flexibility. Further this modular approach can facilitate the incorporation of two or more different community communication modules into the portal while at the same time providing the portal with the flexibility to select and incorporate virtually any desired non community content.

It will be appreciated that the creation menu may enable new community communication modules to be created beyond what is maintained in the core corpus. Furthermore newly created community communication modules may be stored in the core corpus to increase the amount and variety of content for subscription.

In some embodiments the memory may be remote from the server computing subsystem. In some embodiments the website of the community exchange need not be configured to present any or all of the community communication modules of the core corpus.

Furthermore community exchange may include a service application that is executable on server computing subsystem . Service application may be configured to propagate each community communication module to a syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module to modify each community communication module in accordance with updates received from any portal of the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module and to propagate an updated version of each community communication module to all portals of the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module.

Community communication modules may be propagated by community exchange to a plurality of portals executable on remote client computing devices i.e. first client second client third client over a network based on syndication of the community communication modules. A client computing device may be virtually any suitable type of computing device capable of displaying a portal such as a rich client a thin client a mobile device etc.

In some embodiments the plurality of portals may be different websites which need not be associated with the community or hosted by the server computing subsystem but instead may be hosted by various other third parties. In some examples one or more community communication modules may be presented on the websites along with other content sourced from third parties. Further each community communication module may be updated from any client device presenting the portal subscribing to that community communication module.

In some embodiments each community communication module may be modularly propagated via a script . As discussed above script may be generated in response to creation of a community communication module. In some examples a script may be cooperatively presented with a community communication module on the community exchange website and may be used to access the community communication module from a portal.

In some embodiments each community communication module may be modularly propagated via an application programming interface API . API may be reusable by developers of third party portals in order to display functionality of a community communication module.

Network may include virtually any type of network infrastructure. For example the network may include a wide area network WAN and or a local area network LAN . As one example propagation of a community communication module is performed over the Internet. As another example propagation of a community communication module is performed over an intranet on a LAN.

At the method may include providing a subscription menu offering an independently selectable subscription to each community communication module in the core corpus of community communication modules. Further it will be appreciated that the subscription menu may be configured to offer a subscription to a subset of community communication modules of the core corpus and or different levels of a community communication module.

At the method may include propagating each community communication module to the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module. In some embodiments propagation of a community communication module may be performed by an application service via an API or a script.

At the method may include authenticating a portal before modifying the community communication module in response to receiving an update from that portal. Further the update itself may be authenticated instead of or in addition to authentication of a portal.

At the method may include modifying each community communication module in accordance with updates received from any portal of the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module. Modification of a community communication module may include storing an updated version of the modified community communication module in the core corpus. In some cases a community communication module may be modified at a portal and the modifications may be viewed at other subscribing portals without being stored at the community exchange based on permissions of the community communication module.

At the method may include propagating an updated version of each community communication module to all portals of the syndicate of portals subscribing to that community communication module.

At the method may include propagating an identifier that indicates a portal responsible for an update to a community communication module. In some embodiments the identifier may include the author responsible for creating the update.

It will be appreciated that the embodiments described herein may be implemented for example via computer executable instructions or code such as programs stored on computer readable storage media and executed by a computing device such as a processor of server computing subsystem for example. Generally programs include routines objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. As used herein the term program may connote a single program or multiple programs acting in concert and may be used to denote applications services or any other type or class of program. Likewise the terms computer and computing device as used herein include any device that electronically executes one or more programs including but not limited to personal computers servers laptop computers hand held devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics and or appliances etc.

It should be understood that the configurations and or approaches described herein are exemplary in nature and that these specific embodiments or examples are not to be considered in a limiting sense because numerous variations are possible. The specific routines or methods described herein may represent one or more of any number of processing strategies. As such various acts illustrated may be performed in the sequence illustrated in other sequences in parallel or in some cases omitted. Likewise the order of any of the above described processes may be changed without parting from the scope of this disclosure.

The subject matter of the present disclosure includes all novel and nonobvious combinations and subcombinations of the various processes systems and configurations and other features functions acts and or properties disclosed herein as well as any and all equivalents thereof.

