---

title: Newsmaker verification and commenting method and system
abstract: An on-line article comprising instances of newsmakers is provided by an Internet connected news server or news aggregator server and the names of the newsmakers are automatically identified by a newsmaker verification and commenting module. The article is displayed to a reader on an Internet connected client computer. The instances of the newsmakers in the article are emphasized such that they stand out in the article. The reader initiates a verification process by indicating that he is a newsmaker. The newsmaker verification and commenting module is in communication with a verification database and the identity of the reader is verified as the newsmaker through a series of questions and answers. After verification, comments provided by the reader are stored by the newsmaker verification and commenting module. The comments and article are published such that the comments are displayed conspicuously with the article on any client computer accessing the article.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07953753&OS=07953753&RS=07953753
owner: Daylife, Inc.
number: 07953753
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080729
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 260 720 filed Oct. 27 2005 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Internet users have available to them many news sources. Referring to which shows an exemplary prior art system for on line news distribution client computer is connected to the Internet and a user reads articles displayed on web browser . Articles are delivered to client computer by Internet connected news servers and or . There may be many more news servers than what is shown. As is well known articles are displayed in web browser simply by typing in the web address universal resource locator or universal resource identifier of any of the news servers or . News servers such as and may supply news from sources such as Agence France Press AFP Reuters Associated Press AP Los Angeles Times New York Times USA Today National Public Radio NPR CNN.com Slashdot.org and thousands of other online local regional national and international news outlets.

There are many other websites where Internet users can receive news such as Yahoo News http news.yahoo.com and Google News http news.google.com . While these and like websites do not typically generate any original news content they do provide a convenient way for Internet users to view articles from a multiplicity of sources. For example Internet connected news aggregator server receives articles from news servers and . Client computer connects to news aggregator server and may optionally connect directly to any other news server connected to the Internet.

A news story or article whether supplied directly from a news server such as news servers and or from a news aggregator server such as news aggregator server comprises text and optionally images. A newsmaker is anyone who appears in the news story. An article may comprise one or more than one newsmaker. For example a story written about a policy proposed by the President of the United States may contain a quote from the president from the president s spokesman from a senator from a judge from a political commentator and from a man on the street . All of these people are newsmakers.

Some news servers and news aggregator servers provide forums also called discussion forums comment forums comment boards message boards and the like for readers to comment on a selected story. In most cases a reader can enter the forum associated with a story by clicking a link available at the bottom of the story. For example news server communicates with forums and news aggregator server communicates with forums . Forums enables a user at client to comment on an article supplied by news server whereas forums enables a user at client to comment on any story or article aggregated by news aggregator server such as articles from news servers and . Forums are well understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

A forum associated with a popular article may receive hundreds or even thousands of comments a day. While providing an outlet for readers to express their opinion these forums do not necessarily provide any useful valid or enlightening information. In fact it is well known that posts to forums such as these are rarely pertinent to the story and often consist of outrageous or shocking comments meant to provoke others. It is nearly universally true that readers who post comments have no relation to any of the newsmakers in the story and their comments amount to little more than chatter between readers. This remains the case even for moderated forums where a person that is the moderator or a group of people who are registered to moderate such as in Slashdot.org reads through each comment submitted by every reader and approves each post. This is clearly impractical and extremely time consuming for popular forums and besides provides little if any benefit in terms of enhancing the content of the article.

In the event a newsmaker that is someone who is mentioned in an article desires to comment on the article the newsmaker may post a comment in the same manner as any other reader. Newsmakers however almost never comment in these forums it is a waste of time because among other things there is no differentiation between a comment from a newsmaker and a comment from a random reader. And it is extremely common for readers to post comments pretending to be a newsmaker. For example in a story where the newsmaker is Bill Gates it is almost a certainty that a reader who is not Bill Gates will post a comment using the name BillG BillGates or similar. Whether the reader actually expects to be believed as the newsmaker is irrelevant the effect is that the any residual relevancy the forum may have had to the article or newsmaker is completely eroded. As a result even if the newsmaker posts a comment the comment gets lost in the chatter of the forum.

In addition to this a newsmaker who desires to correct or formally comment on the article has no expeditious convenient and reliable way to do so the only recourse is to attempt to contact the publisher the author of the article or the editor of the article and implore them to publish a correction or addendum containing the newsmakers comments or corrections. Unsurprisingly publishers are loath to do this. In the unlikely event the newsmaker is successful at best the publisher author or editor publishes an edited version of the newsmaker s comments sometimes days after the original article was published. Thus a need presently exists for a newsmaker verification and commenting system.

The present invention provides a newsmaker verification and commenting method and system. In Internet based on line publishing on line articles are served from one or more news servers or news aggregator servers connected to the Internet. The articles are displayed on an Internet connected client computer operable to access and display the articles. The articles are displayed in a web browser. In the present invention an article is provided. The article comprises text and at least some of the text comprises an instance comprising the name of a newsmaker. There may be more than one newsmaker and more than one instance. A newsmaker verification and commenting module in communication with a news server or news aggregator server automatically identifies the name of the newsmaker. If there is more than one newsmaker all of the names are identified. The names are automatically identified by analyzing the text of the article with for example entity extraction methods. Next the article is displayed to the reader at the client computer. The instance of the newsmaker is emphasized such that the instance is set apart from the text of the article. A verification process is initiated when the reader desiring to comment on the article selects one of the emphasized names. The verification process electronically verifies the identity of the reader as the newsmaker. Electronically verifying comprises generating out of wallet questions from a verification database in communication with the newsmaker verification and commenting module transmitting out of wallet information to the verification database comparing the out of wallet information to the verification database and receiving comparison result at the newsmaker verification and commenting module. If the comparison results are favorable that is the identity of the reader is verified as the newsmaker comments provided by the reader are stored by the newsmaker verification and commenting module. Finally the comments and the article are published such that the comments are displayed conspicuously with the article on any Internet connected client computer accessing the article.

The foregoing paragraph has been provided by way of general introduction and it should not be used to narrow the scope of the following claims. The preferred embodiments will now be described with reference to the attached drawings.

In a newsmaker verification and commenting system shown in an on line article is provided. As discussed above the article is provided via the Internet from news servers and or or from news aggregator server . The article is displayed at Internet connected client computer in web browser . The article may be a news article or any other type of article whether or not it contains current news such as background information bios sources of information and the like. The article may also comprise aggregated content from a multiplicity of other articles. The article comprises text with at least some of the text comprising the name of a newsmaker. The article may further comprise an image or images links to audio and video embedded audio and video links to other articles links to web pages and blogs and the like. As used herein the term web browser content is understood to mean either by themselves or in combination text an image or images links to audio and video embedded audio and video links to other articles links to web pages and blogs and other types of content that are displayable or accessible in a web browser.

Recall a newsmaker is anyone who appears in the news story. A newsmaker may be the subject of a sentence in the article the object of a sentence in the article the author of the article the editor of the article the publisher of the article a publicist or similar person representing the newsmaker a company or organization wherein the company or organization has an official representative or spokesperson and the like. Each mention or occurrence of the name of the newsmaker in the article is referred to herein as an instance. There may be more than one newsmaker in the article with each newsmaker having one or more instances. It is understood that any disclosure directed to one newsmaker also applies to more than one newsmaker.

A newsmaker verification and commenting NVC module the workings of which will be discussed below is in communication with news aggregator server and with a verification database . Briefly the article is displayed to a reader at client computer on web browser the reader who is also a newsmaker desires to comment on the article the reader accesses NVC via the Internet the reader s identification is electronically verified as the newsmaker with verification database in communication with NVC the reader provides comments which are stored in a database in NVC and the comments are published with the article such that henceforth any Internet connected computer accessing the article through news aggregator server will display the article and the comments from the newsmaker.

NVC comprises computer readable code which when executed by a computer causes the computer to perform a newsmaker verification and commenting method which is disclosed in detail below with reference to . News aggregator server may comprise NVC in which case NVC is in direct communication with news aggregator server . Alternatively NVC may be a separate computer in which case NVC is in communication with news aggregator server via the Internet or via any other prior art communications network. In any case it is understood that the placement of NVC and the means of communication between NVC and news aggregator server is in no way limiting to the present invention.

Likewise verification database and NVC are in direct communication in which case the verification database and NVC are stored on the same computer. In another embodiment verification database and NVC are physically separate and are in communication via the Internet.

As was discussed with reference to optional prior art forums is shown in communication with news aggregator server and optional prior art forums is shown in communication with news server . The presence or absence of the prior art forums have no bearing on the present invention.

Examining an article is provided step . The article comprises text. The article may also optionally comprise images and other web browser content. At least some of the text comprises the name of a newsmaker. Each mention or occurrence of the name of the newsmaker in the article is referred to as an instance. There may be more than one newsmaker in the article with each newsmaker having one or more instances. As already discussed any discussion directed to one newsmaker may be equivalently applied to more than one newsmaker.

Next the name of the newsmaker is automatically identified step . If there is more than one newsmaker then all of the names of the newsmakers are automatically identified. The term automatically identified is used rather than the word identified to indicate that the article is electronically analyzed or parsed and the names of the newsmakers obtained or extracted when the article is provided and without human intervention.

Extracting information from documents such as on line articles and web pages is generally referred to by those skilled in the art as information extraction and specifically as entity extraction or named entity recognition. Many well understood linguistic knowledge based statistical probabilistic and hybrid methods for entity extraction may be employed. In one embodiment Hidden Markov Models are used. In other embodiments rule based methods machine learning techniques such as Support Vector Machine learning methods and Conditional Random Fields are implemented either by themselves or in combination. Furthermore there are many commercial products available employing these and other techniques for example IdentiFinder from BBN Technologies products from Basis Technology Corp. Verity Inc. Convera and Inxight Software Inc. as well as freely available software for developing and deploying software components that process human language such as GATE General Architecture for Text Engineering . These methods models algorithms systems and products are well understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Once the newsmakers in the article are identified the article is displayed to a reader step . The article is displayed for example as a webpage in the web browser of a computer connected to the Internet. So as to distinguish the newsmaker s in the article from the other text at least one instance of the newsmaker is optionally emphasized by for example modifying text attributes of the text comprising the instance. For example the font type or font size or font color or a combination of the three may be modified. In one example the text of the article comprises black text and the instance comprises text that is blue and bold or underlined or italicized or the like. In an alternative embodiment the newsmakers names are displayed in a list for example alongside the article. The list may comprise the newsmakers names in text photos of the newsmakers descriptions and the like.

In the intuitive world of web site navigation emphasizing the instance suggests to the reader to move the mouse cursor over the instance or to click on the instance. In one embodiment when the reader moves the mouse cursor over the instance and clicks on the instance the reader is directed to a verification web page which is displayed in the web browser. In another embodiment when the reader moves the mouse cursor over the instance and or clicks on the instance a dialog box a window or a pop up is displayed containing a query. One exemplary query is Are you name of newsmaker Yes or No . If the reader is the newsmaker the reader selects Yes and a verification web page is displayed. Other embodiments may include one or more including equivalents of the following the dialog box window or pop up is displayed only when the reader clicks on the instance a question such as Click here if you are a newsmaker in the this article is displayed conspicuously with the article for example under the article s headline and upon clicking the reader may select from among a list of the newsmakers automatically identified a list of all of the newsmakers are displayed conspicuously with the article for example in a panel to the right or left of the article and each newsmaker instance in the list may by clicked on directing the reader to a verification web page.

After displaying the article to the reader step the identity of the reader is electronically verified step to determine if the reader actually is the newsmaker. Electronic verification step is commenced when the reader indicates that they are the newsmaker for example by clicking on an instance as described above. A verification web page is displayed to the reader. The verification page comprises a multiplicity of out of wallet questions. Out of wallet questions are questions based on credit profiles credit account information home mortgage information and other highly confidential and difficult to obtain information. The questions and the answers called out of wallet information are referred to as out of wallet because it is information not easily accessible or knowable by anyone but the correct person even if the correct person were to lose their wallet.

There may be more than one verification page. In one embodiment electronic verification is commenced and a first set of simple out of wallet questions are generated. A first verification page is displayed showing the newsmaker s name and the first set of out of wallet questions. By way of example the first set of out of wallet questions ask for the reader s address telephone number and social security number. The reader provides answers that is out of wallet information to the first set of out of wallet questions and the out of wallet information is transmitted to a verification database. The out of wallet information is compared to data in the verification database. If the out of wallet information matches data stored in the record for the newsmaker in the database a second set of much more challenging out of wallet questions is generated from other data in the record of the newsmaker in the database. For example the second set of out of wallet questions asks for home mortgage information information from credit bureaus such as loan amounts and information from the Department of Motor Vehicles. The reader provides answers that is out of wallet information to the second set of out of wallet questions and the out of wallet information is transmitted to the verification database the out of wallet information is compared to the data in the newsmaker s record in the database and results of the comparison are received from the verification database.

In another embodiment a single verification page poses a multiplicity of out of wallet questions. An a priori determination of the actual identity of the newsmaker is made from the article and or from other sources such as other articles and public records. This is possible in particular for high profile newsmakers such as politicians or celebrities where there is an abundance of information about them publicly available. In this embodiment the a priori determination is made and the multiplicity of out of wallet questions are generated by referencing the record for the newsmaker in the verification database. Next the reader s answers that is the out of wallet information is transmitted to the verification database. Then the out of wallet information is compared to data in the record of the newsmaker in the verification database. Next the results of the comparison are received from the verification database.

In one embodiment the results of the comparison comprise a simple Boolean yes no answer to the question of whether the reader is the newsmaker. In another embodiment the results of the comparison comprise a risk score for example a percentage such as 80 100 the higher the percentage the higher the confidence of positive verification. In this embodiment a tolerance level is set so that if the percentage is below the tolerance level the verification is considered false and if it is above the tolerance level the verification is considered to be positive.

Upon positive reader verification the reader is optionally invited to create a user account comprising a unique username and password. Once created the reader newsmaker may simply log on to the account thereby bypassing the verification process for any future commenting.

The verification database comprises several sub databases such as databases from credit bureaus department of motor vehicles the US postal service phone directories public records social security numbers state records and federal records. Other databases such as health records criminal databases and the like may also be accessed. There are many commercially available products for identity verification employing these and other database. For example VPid from verifiedperson.com and Consumer Authentication Service CAS from Verisign Inc.

Communications with the verification database which comprise confidential information are encrypted. For example all verification data transmitted to and received from the verification database out of wallet information transmitted from the client and other sensitive communications use at least one industry standard protocol such as Secure Sockets Layer SSL HTTPS passwords digital certificates and Kerberos tickets Most commercially available databases employ these and other protocols and authentication methods. Most commercially available databases also provide an application programming interface API for example a JAVA API to minimize complexity in interfacing and communicating with the verification database. Other standards may be employed such as XML Extensible Markup Language for communicating data between web sites databases and other Internet connected resources.

Turning back to after positive verification or logon in the event the reader has previously been verified and has created a user account comments provided by the reader are stored step . A web page is displayed into which the reader may enter comments corrections opinions and other text. The reader may optionally attach files links and documents such as photos URLs and URIs RSS and other content syndication feeds video files audio files links to audio files links to video files images and links to articles. These and other submissions are referred to herein broadly as comments . Briefly referring back to the comments along with any other information such as user account information are stored in NVC .

Finally the comments and the article are published step such that the comments are displayed conspicuously with the article on any Internet connected client computer accessing the article. For example a request from a client computer of to view an article from a news aggregator server of causes both the article and the comments associated with the article to be compiled into a web page and delivered to the client.

The newsmaker s comments may be displayed in many ways in their entirety in an abridged version as a headline or other teaser within or next to the article and where clicking on the headline displays the full comments in a separate pane next to or within the text of the article and such that when a mouse cursor passes over an instance the newsmaker s comments are displayed in a pop up. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are many ways of displaying the article and newsmaker comments on a web page.

Referring to an exemplary screen shot of a web page displaying the published article and comments is shown. The web page shares many similarities to the prior art web page of for example the name of the news source or news aggregator a search bar or search function the story including the headline and the author an image online advertising an email story link or button a print link or button and a discuss link or button . Additionally the published article includes newsmaker comments displayed conspicuously with the article and positioned such that the text of the article flows around the newsmaker s comments. It is appreciated by those skilled in the art that many other layouts for the published article and comments are possible.

With the above disclosure in mind it is noted that other modifications to the present invention are possible. For example other readers may flag a reader who was falsely identified as a newsmaker. If upon reading a newsmaker s comments other readers are suspicious that that the comments are fraudulent the other readers may flag the newsmaker s comments. Flagging may have many consequences for example the newsmaker s comments cease being displayed until the newsmaker can be re verified the newsmaker s identity is forced to be re verified and the newsmaker s identity is forced to be manually verified that is to be verified by a person.

Manually verifying the identity of the reader as the newsmaker may be performed as a supplement to the step of electronically verifying. In some cases manually verifying may be the only form of verification. Also the names of the newsmakers may be manually identified that is a person such as an editor may identify the newsmakers by reading the article.

In the unlikely event that two or more newsmakers share the same name in an article the step of verifying may include a step of selecting the newsmaker that refers to the reader. For example if an article comprises two different newsmakers each named John Doe the step of verification may include a page displaying both names with additional information such as Click here if you are the John Doe who said quote from first John Doe in the article and Click here if you are the John Doe who said quote from second John Doe in the article . If quotes are not available in the article other identifying information from the article may be used. After selecting a John Doe the step of verification continues as detailed above.

Finally it is noted that an article may comprise other content. For example a newsmaker topic web page may be an article. A newsmaker topic page comprises content related to or connected with a newsmaker. The content may comprise articles in which the newsmaker is mentioned comments the newsmaker has made other articles news background information a biography miscellaneous comments by the newsmaker which are not in response to an article and similar information connected to the newsmaker. As described above the article is displayed to a reader and the article that is the newsmaker topic page further comprises a link such as Click here if you are name of newsmaker or a representative of name of newsmaker which upon clicking initiates the step of verifying the reader. In this way the newsmaker may modify and add content on the newsmaker s topic page.

The foregoing detailed description has discussed only a few of the many forms that this invention can take. It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be understood as an illustration of selected forms that the invention can take and not as a definition of the invention. It is only the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the scope of this invention.

