---

title: Ga-In-O amorphous oxide transparent conductive film, and transparent conductive base material comprising this conductive film formed thereon
abstract: A sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication is chiefly composed of Ga, In, and O; has a Ga content ranging from 49.1 at. % to 65 at. % with respect to all metallic atoms; is chiefly constructed from a β-GaInOphase and an InOphase; provides an InOphase (400)/β-GaInOphase (111) X-ray diffraction peak intensity ratio that is 45% or less; and has a density of 5.8 g/cmor more. A transparent conductive film obtained by using a sputtering technique is an amorphous oxide transparent conductive film chiefly composed of Ga, In, and O, so that a Ga content ranges from 49.1 at. % to 65 at. % with respect to all metallic atoms, a work function is 5.1 eV or more, and a refractive index for light with a wavelength of 633 nm ranges from 1.65 to 1.85.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07641818&OS=07641818&RS=07641818
owner: Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd.
number: 07641818
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081205
---
This application is a divisional of Ser. No. 11 624 309 filed Jan. 18 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 476 343 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to a sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication used in a sputtering process or an ion plating process a transparent conductive film used in a transparent electrode an antistatic function or a liquid crystal optical element for a display device fabricated by using the target and a transparent conductive base material comprising this transparent conductive film formed thereon.

Transparent conductive films that have low electric resistance and transparent conductive base materials in which the transparent conductive films are formed on transparent substrates are widely used in applications requiring their transparent and conductive properties for example in various applications to electric and electronic fields flat panel displays such as liquid crystal displays and EL displays transparent electrodes of touch panels display devices antistatic films and liquid crystal optical elements. In general as the transparent conductive films tin doped indium oxide films that is ITO Indium Tin Oxide crystal films are widely used. The ITO crystal films are excellent materials in which resistivity is low and the transmittance of light in the visible region is favorable. Formerly most applications have been accommodated by controlling ITO characteristics.

However new display devices such as organic or inorganic EL elements and electronic papers have recently been developed and requirements for transparent conductive films have been diversified so that common ITO crystal films can no longer meet the requirements.

For example when the transparent conductive film is used as the transparent electrode of the organic EL element it is desirable that the transparent conductive film is not the crystal film but an amorphous film. In the ITO crystal film mentioned above a projection structure due to crystal growth is present and thus there is the problem that the local concentration of electric current is produced and uniform display becomes difficult. That is the amorphous film whose surface is extremely flat is required.

When the transparent conductive film is used as the anode of the organic EL element it is desirable that its work function is rather great because positive holes are easily injected. However the work functions of many transparent conductive films including the ITO film are less than 5 eV and thus a value of 5 eV or more is favorable because light emitting efficiency can be increased.

It is further desirable that the refractive index of the transparent conductive film is lower. By using the transparent conductive film that is lower in refractive index than the ITO film the taking out efficiency of light from a light emitting layer can be improved and there is the merit that an optical design is facilitated.

As another example in the touch panel there is a tendency that visibility is taken into much account. In order to prevent the visibility from deteriorating the transparent conductive film with low refractive index becomes necessary. Since the refractive index of the ITO film is as high as 2.0 2.2 and the visibility is poor the transparent conductive film with a refractive index of at least about 1.8 is required.

It is also important that the transparent conductive film is not the crystal film but the amorphous film. In general an oxide crystal film has the problem that its grain boundary is slight in structure and strength is impaired.

As the problem is posed by Patent reference 1 the crystal film is particularly affected by sliding to produce cracks and peeling and hence is unsuitable for the touch panel requiring a pen input operation.

As an example other than those mentioned above in the application to the electronic paper characterized by flexibility the transparent conductive film that is hard to crack with respect to bending is essential. In general it is known that the oxide crystal film has the grain boundary that is slight in structure and is liable to crack while the amorphous film in which the grain boundary does not exist is hard to crack. From this it is proposed to apply an amorphous transparent conductive film as the transparent conductive film that is resistant to bending. In this application since a substrate impaired by heat such as a PET film is used it is necessary to deposit the amorphous transparent conductive film in the vicinity of room temperature. It is needless to say that the low refractive index is important for the amorphous transparent conductive film as in the touch panel.

In FIGS. 10 11 and 12 of Japanese Patent Kokai No. 2002 313141 the work functions of individual transparent conductive films are shown. According to this publication transparent conductive films having work functions in excess of 5 eV are limited to a Ga In Ocrystal film a GaInOcrystal film a ZnSnOcrystal film and a ZnO crystal film. That is at present no amorphous film exists which can be deposited at room temperature and has a work function of more than 5 eV.

Japanese Patent Kokai No. Hei 10 294182 proposes an organic electroluminescence element comprising an organic layer that contains an organic light emitting layer sandwiched between an anode and a cathode in which the cathode includes in order from a side coming in contact with the organic layer an electron injection electrode layer a transparent conductive film and a metallic thin film with a resistivity of 1 10 cm or less laminated one over another and a transparent thin film layer is formed outside the cathode. In this case an amorphous transparent conductive film using an oxide composed of indium In zinc Zn and oxygen O is applied.

Japanese Patent Kokai No. Hei 10 83719 sets forth a transparent conductive film in which a compound metallic oxide film containing In Sn and Zn as the transparent conductive film having the properties of the high transmittance of visible light and low resistance forms at least one kind of InSnOcrystal or microcrystals or amorphism composed of In Sn and Zn and as the composition of metal contains therein an Sn content indicated by Sn 100 In Sn is 40 60 at. and a Zn content indicated by Zn 100 In Zn is 10 90 at. .

Japanese Patent Kokai No. Hei 8 264023 proposes a transparent conductive film in which in a quasi two dimensional system indicated by an oxide containing magnesium Mg and indium In MgO InO as the transparent conductive film having a band gap of 3.4 eV and a refractive index of light of 2.0 that are almost the same as in a conventional transparent conductive film and possessing much higher conductivity than MgInOand InO namely lower resistivity and excellent optical properties an In content indicated by In Mg In is 70 95 at. .

However in any of many amorphous transparent conductive films that have been proposed so far represented by the above prior art the work function is less than 5 eV and the refractive index is more than 2.0 and thus it is unreasonable that such films are suitable for the applications described above.

Japanese Patent Kokai No. Hei 7 182924 proposes a gallium indium oxide GaInO in which a heterovalent dopant like a quadrivalent atom is doped by a small amount. It is described that since the crystal film of this oxide is excellent in transparency and exhibits the refractive index of light as low as about 1.6 index matching with a glass substrate is improved and the electrical conductivity at nearly the same level as in a wide band gap semiconductor used at present can be attained. However as discussed by T. Minami et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A17 4 July August 1999 pp. 1765 1772 this oxide has the work function in excess of 5 eV but is the crystal film not the amorphous film required for the recent display device. Additionally in order to obtain the crystal film it is necessary to perform the high temperature deposition at a substrate temperature of 250 500 C. that is industrially disadvantageous. Hence it is difficult at present to use the oxide as it is.

Further Japanese Patent Kokai No. Hei 9 259640 proposes a transparent conductive film in which in a quasi two dimensional system indicated by GaO InOas the transparent conductive film having a composition range considerably different from GaInOwhich has been known so far and possessing much higher conductivity than GaInOand InO namely lower resistivity and excellent optical properties a Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In is 15 49 at. . In particular it is described that the transparent conductive film has the feature that the refractive index of light can be changed from about 1.8 to 2.1 by altering the composition. In the embodiments however the refractive index and the work function are not in any way suggested. More details are reported by the inventors of Kokai No. Hei 9 259640 in T. Minami et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A17 4 July August 1999 pp. 1765 1772 and T. Minami et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A14 3 May June 1996 pp. 1689 1693.

As mentioned above in T. Minami et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A17 4 July August 1999 pp. 1765 1772 the work function of the Ga In Ocrystal film deposited at a substrate temperature of 350 C. is merely shown and the work function of the amorphous film is not suggested. In FIG. 6 of Kokai No. Hei 10 294182 the refractive indices of transparent conductive films composed of Ga In and O particularly deposited at room temperatures are shown. According to this aspect it is described that the refractive index of the InOfilm is about 2.1 the transparent conductive film in which the Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In is 5 80 at. has a refractive index of 1.9 2.3 the refractive index of the GaOfilm is about 1.8 and in particular the transparent conductive film in which the Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In is 50 at. has a refractive index of about 2.0.

As seen from the above description the fact is that the transparent conductive film in which the deposition in the vicinity of the room temperature is possible amorphism is provided the work function is above 5 eV and the refractive index is low is not yet obtained. In the applications to the organic EL element the touch panel and the electronic paper therefore no transparent conductive film has yet completely met in good balance demands for a transparent conductive film that is high in work function and low in refractive index for an amorphous transparent conductive film that is hard to crack with respect to sliding and bending and for an amorphous transparent conductive film whose surface is extremely flat and the need for film deposition in the vicinity of the room temperature. New transparent conductive films meeting these requirements are needed. Moreover sintered body targets for transparent conductive film fabrication for providing the transparent conductive films by using the sputtering process or the ion plating process are also needed.

A first object of the present invention is to provide a sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication suitable for fabricating a transparent conductive film in which amorphism is provided a high work function is obtained the refractive index in the visible region is low peeling and cracking due to sliding and bending are hard to occur the film surface is extremely flat and film deposition in the vicinity of the room temperature is possible.

A second object of the present invention is to provide a transparent conductive film formed by using the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication.

A third object of the present invention is to provide a transparent conductive base material having the transparent conductive film.

In order to achieve the above objects the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication according to the present invention is chiefly composed of Ga In and O has a Ga content ranging from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms is chiefly constructed from a GaInOphase of a GaO type structure and an InOphase of a bixbyite type structure hereinafter simply referred to as the GaInOphase and the InOphase respectively unless otherwise specified provides an X ray diffraction peak intensity ratio defined by the following equation that is 45 or less and

In the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication according to the present invention the resistivity is preferably 9.0 10 cm or less.

The transparent conductive film according to the present invention is fabricated by using the sintered body target so that the Ga content ranges from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms and a work function is 5.1 eV or more.

In the transparent conductive film according to the present invention the refractive index for light with a wavelength of 633 nm preferably ranges from 1.65 to 1.85.

In the transparent conductive film according to the present invention the resistivity is preferably 1.0 10 1.0 10 cm.

In the transparent conductive film according to the present invention an arithmetic mean height Ra is 2.0 nm or less preferably 1.0 nm or less.

The transparent conductive base material according to the present invention comprises any transparent conductive film of the above description formed on one or both surfaces of a transparent substrate of one selected from among materials such as a glass plate a quartz plate a resin plate and a resin film.

The transparent conductive base material according to the present invention preferably comprises at least one layer of a gas barrier film and any transparent conductive film of the above description formed in turn on one or both surfaces of a transparent substrate of one selected from a resin plate and a resin film.

The transparent conductive base material according to the present invention preferably includes at least one film of one selected from among compounds such as silicon nitride silicon oxide nitride and silicon oxide as the gas barrier film.

The sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication of the present invention has a work function of 5.1 eV of more is chiefly composed of Ga In and O in order to obtain the transparent conductive film having preferred optical properties and conductivity has a Ga content ranging from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms is chiefly constructed from a GaInOphase of a GaO type structure and an InOphase of a bixbyite type structure provides an X ray diffraction peak intensity ratio defined by the following equation that is 45 or less and has a density of 5.8 g cmor more InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 100 A 

Further the resistivity is 9.0 10 cm or less which is essential for the transparent conductive film of the present invention that has the above features. Thus the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication the transparent conductive film fabricated by using the sintered body target and the transparent conductive base material forming the transparent conductive film are useful for applications of display devices that are further widespread.

The transparent conductive film of the present invention is an amorphous oxide transparent conductive film chiefly composed of Ga In and O and is designed so that a Ga content ranges from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms the work function is 5.1 or more the refractive index for light with a wavelength of 633 nm ranges from 1.65 to 1.85 and the resistivity is 1.0 10 1.0 10 cm. In other words the transparent conductive film has a high work function and a low refractive index relative to light in the visible region that formerly has never been obtained and combines excellent properties inherent in the amorphous film that the film is hard to crack and the arithmetic means height is low. In addition the transparent conductive film of the present invention can be deposited in the vicinity of the room temperature which increases industrial utility value.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In order to achieve the above mentioned objects the present inventors have prepared various kinds of sintered body targets for transparent conductive film fabrication to form many oxide films on transparent substrates by using the sintered body targets and have conducted researches concerning the optical properties of the oxide films and the ease of fabrication of the amorphous films. As a result it is found that a favorable transparent conductive film is obtained by using the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication that is chiefly composed of Ga In and O has a Ga content ranging from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms is chiefly constructed from a GaInOphase of a GaO type structure and an InOphase of a bixbyite type structure provides an X ray diffraction peak intensity ratio defined by the following equation that is 45 or less and has a density of 5.8 g cmor more InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 100 A 

The embodiments of the present invention will be described below. However the present invention is not limited to the embodiments.

The sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication of the present invention is chiefly composed of Ga In and O has a Ga content ranging from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms is chiefly constructed from a GaInOphase of a GaO type structure and an InOphase of a bixbyite type structure provides an X ray diffraction peak intensity ratio defined by Equation A that is 45 or less has a density of 5.8 g cmor more and preferably has a resistivity of 9.0 10 cm or less.

Here the InOphase may be such that oxygen vacancy is introduced and may also be such that Ga is replaced with part of In. The GaInOphase may be such that a Ga In ratio of the number of atoms deviates somewhat from a stoichiometric composition and may also be such that oxygen vacancy is introduced.

Beyond the limit of the Ga composition mentioned above the high work function and the low refractive index cannot be attained when a deposited amorphous film has the same composition as the target. However when the target composition and the amorphous composition do not become almost the same due to the deposition condition the above description does not apply to this case.

In the target of the present invention it is desirable that the share of the InOphase is rather small. Specifically it is desirable that the peak intensity ratio a diffraction peak area intensity ratio of 400 reflection of the InOphase to 111 reflection of the GaInOphase in the X ray diffraction defined by Equation A is 45 or less. When the peak intensity ratio exceeds 45 the influence exerted by the InOphase exhibiting the refractive index of light as high as 2.0 2.2 becomes remarkable even in the case where Ga is within the composition mentioned above and the work function as high as 5.1 eV or more and the refractive index of light as low as 1.65 1.85 cannot be attained.

According to the JCPDS card the ASTM card the main peaks of the GaInOphase and the InOphase in the X ray diffraction are governed by 111 reflection and 222 reflection respectively but InOphase 222 reflection is superimposed with GaInOphase 002 reflection and thus the InOphase is evaluated by 400 reflection that has the second highest intensity.

In R. D. Shannon et al. J. inorg. nucl. Chem. 1968 Vol. 30 pp. 1389 1398 it is described that when the GaInOphase of GaO InO 1 1 is prepared an unreacted InOphase is liable to remain. The InOphase exhibits the work function as low as 4.8 4.9 eV and the refractive index as high as 2.0 2.2 and thus when it is contained in the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication the work function of a film deposited by using this target is lowered and the refractive index is increased.

In the present invention in order to suppress the production of the unreacted InOphase in the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication raw material powder and mixing and sintering conditions have been discussed. Specifically when an atmospheric sintering method is used it is desirable that the raw material powder has a purity of better than 3N and is adjusted to an average grain diameter of less than 3 m by grinding. It is desirable that compounding powder an organic binder and a dispersant are mixed until a uniform state is reached. It is desirable that a hydrostatic press capable of applying a uniform stress is used for molding. It is desirable that sintering temperatures range from 125 C. to 1400 C. and sintering time is at least 12 hours. It is more desirable that sintering is performed in the gas flow of oxygen. The above conditions are favorable for atmospheric sintering and when a pressure sintering method such as a hot press technique is used the above description doe not apply to this case.

In the fabrication process of the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication a Ga In Ophase different from the GaInOphase and the GaOphase that is an unavoidable production phase are sometimes produced depending on the average grain diameter after grinding of raw material powder and the sintering condition. The sintered body target of the present invention is chiefly composed of the GaInOphase and the InOphase but the above Ga In Ophase may be contained if the X ray diffraction intensity ratio defined by the following equation is 70 or less Reflection by Ga In Ophase in the vicinity of 2 28 InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 100 B 

Here reflection by Ga In Ophase in the vicinity of 2 28 is described. According to the JCPDS card the ASTM card this is because the crystal structure and surface index of the Ga In Ophase are not specified and only the surface interval and the X ray diffraction relative intensity ratio are specified.

Even when the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication that contains the Ga In Ophase exceeding 70 in Equation B is used the amorphous transparent conductive film to be formed exhibits the work function as high as 5.1 eV or more and the refractive index of light as low as 1.65 1.85. However the sintered body with a Ga In Osingle phase exhibits the resistivity as high as about 5 10 cm and thus when the Ga In Ophase exceeding 70 in Equation B is contained in the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication the deposition rate is reduced and productivity is deteriorated. As such it is desirable that the content of the Ga In Ophase in Equation B is 70 or less. Also an unavoidable impurity that is an unreactant such as GaO may be contained if it is such that the X ray diffraction peak is not observed.

In the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication of the present invention it is desirable that the density of the sintered body is 5.8 g cmor more. When the density of the sintered body is less than 5.8 g cm the frequency of generation of abnormal discharge in sputtering is increased and as a result a good quality amorphous transparent conductive film with low refractive index cannot be obtained.

Further in the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication of the present invention it is desirable that the resistivity is 9.0 10 cm or less. When the resistivity exceeds this value the deposition rate is reduced although DC magnetron sputtering is possible and therefore productivity is impaired.

If the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication that fails to satisfy these conditions is used to deposit a film the amorphous transparent conductive film that exhibits the high work function in excess of 5.0 eV cannot be obtained. Moreover as described in Kokai No. Hei 9 259640 T. Minami et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A17 4 July August 1999 pp. 1765 1772 and T. Minami et al. J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A14 3 May June 1999 pp. 1689 1693 with the exception of the GaOfilm that exhibits almost no conductivity only the amorphous film with the high refractive index in excess of 1.85 can be obtained and in addition productivity becomes low.

If the refractive index for light with a wavelength of 633 nm exceeds 1.85 the reflectance of light will be increased and the transmittance of light will be reduced. The fact that the refractive index for light with a wavelength of 633 nm is less than 1.65 indicates that the transmittance of light is excellent and thus is favorable. In the present invention however such a low refractive index of light is not obtained.

It is desirable that the transparent conductive film is chiefly composed of Ga In and O is an amorphous oxide transparent conductive film and has a Ga content ranging from 49.1 at. to 65 at. with respect to all metallic atoms. When the Ga content is less than 49.1 at. the work function is low and the refractive index becomes high. This is equivalent to the conventional transparent conductive film. When the Ga content is more than 65 at. the conductivity required for the use of the transparent electrode is not completely obtained.

Each of the work function and the refractive index of light is affected by the construction phase of the sintered body target that is a thin film deposition source even in the same composition. When the InOphase 400 peak intensity ratio shown in Equation A is higher than 45 the work function of the transparent conductive film becomes lower than 5.1 eV and the refractive index is in excess of 1.85. This is equivalent to the conventional transparent conductive film.

The resistivity depends on the amount of oxygen introduced into the amorphous film on deposition but the control of the resistivity can be made in the range of 1.0 10to 1.0 10 cm. When a larger amount of oxygen is introduced the amorphous film can be used as an insulating film. Within the above range wide applications to transparent electrodes and antistatic films are possible but outside this range the use of the amorphous film is limited to a special application.

In the transparent conductive film of the present invention it is desirable that the arithmetic mean height Ra is 2.0 nm or less. Here the arithmetic means height Ra is based on the definition of JIS B0601 2001. The transparent conductive film with the arithmetic mean height Ra in excess of 2.0 nm is unfavorable for the application for example to an organic EL element requiring the flatness of a film surface.

As techniques of depositing the transparent conductive film of the present invention there are a sputtering process and an ion plating process. In view of productivity a magnetron sputtering process using a DC plasma a DC magnetron sputtering process is desirable. In the ion plating process a pellet obtained by the same manufacturing method as in the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication is used as an evaporation source and thereby the transparent conductive film of the present invention can be obtained.

For the substrate it is desirable to use a transparent substrate of one selected from among materials such as a glass plate a quartz plate a resin plate and a resin film but a display device substrate is not limited to this case.

When the sputtering process or the ion plating process is used to fabricate the transparent conductive film of the present invention it is important to use the target of the present invention in order to obtain the amorphous transparent conductive film of the present invention that is high in work function and low in refractive index.

The transparent conductive base material of the present invention comprises the transparent conductive film of the present invention formed on one or both surfaces of the transparent substrate.

When the display device requires a gas barrier property it is desirable that in order to impart a gas barrier function to the transparent conductive base material at least one layer of a gas barrier film is formed between the transparent substrate and the transparent conductive film. It is desirable that the gas barrier film contains at least one of silicon nitride silicon oxide nitride and silicon oxide. The gas barrier film may contain an organic film not to speak of an inorganic film.

The transparent conductive film of the present invention has the features of exhibiting the work function in excess of 5.1 eV and the low refractive index ranging from 1.65 to 1.85 with respect to light of wavelength 633 nm. Thus if the features can be utilized other applications except for the transparent electrode will also be feasible. For example applications to an antistatic film that can also be used at high electric resistance and to a mere optical thin film that can also be used as an insulating film are feasible.

GaOpowder and InOpowder each having a purity of 4N are grounded by a ball mill and are adjusted so that an average grain diameter is 3 m or less. After that the powder is blended so that the Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In is 50 at. and is mixed with an organic binder a dispersant and a plasticizer by the ball mill for 48 hours to prepare a slurry. Subsequently the slurry thus obtained is sprayed and dried by a spray dryer into granulation powder.

Next the granulation powder obtained is admitted to a rubber mold and a molded body with a diameter of 191 mm and a thickness of nearly 6 mm is fabricated by a hydrostatic press. Molded bodies likewise obtained are sintered under atmospheric pressure for 20 hours at 1250 C. 1350 C. and 1400 C. respectively in a gas flow of oxygen. After each of sintered bodies is machined into a disk shape and its surface is ground and shaped to have a diameter of about 6 inch and a thickness of about 5 mm.

Values of the Ga content of the sintered body found by an ICP optical emission spectral analysis technique using SPS4000 by Seiko Instruments Inc. the density of the sintered body measured by the Archimedes technique using a high precision automatic densimeter by Toyo Seiki Seisaku sho Ltd. using pure water the resistivity measured by a 4 terminal conductivity technique using LORESTA IP MCP T250 by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and the InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 peak intensity ratio obtained by the X ray diffraction using a CuK ray by Rigaku Denki Kogyo Co. Ltd. are summarized in a table shown in . shows an X ray diffraction pattern by the CuK ray of the sintered body obtained at a sintering temperature of 1350 C.

Next each sintered body is bonded to a cooled copper plate and is used as the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication. As a sputtering device SPF 530H by ANELVA Corporation is used. For substrates a 7059 substrate by Corning Inc. and an Si substrate by Komatsu Electronic Metals Co. Ltd. for light refractive index measurement are used and arranged parallel with the surface of the target. A distance between the substrates and the target is set to 60 mm. A sputtering gas uses a mixing gas composed of Ar and Oso that the proportion of oxygen is set to 1.5 and the total gas pressure to 0.5 Pa. The making power is set to 200 W. On the above conditions room temperature deposition is carried out by the DC magnetron sputtering. The electric discharge is stabilized and abnormality such as occurrence of an arc discharge is not recognized. The deposition time is controlled and the transparent conductive film with a thickness of 200 nm is obtained.

The Ga contents indicated by Ga Ga In are changed to 49.5 55 and 65 at. and the target is prepared on the same condition as in Embodiment 2 to perform the deposition. The abnormal discharge as in Embodiments 1 3 is not recognized. In as in Embodiments 1 3 the results of investigations of the targets and the thin films are shown. On investigation as to the structures of the obtained thin films with the X ray diffraction all the thin films as in Embodiments 1 3 are amorphous.

The substrate temperature is changed to 200 C. and the same deposition as in Embodiment 2 is performed. It is confirmed by the X ray diffraction that in spite of an increase of the substrate temperature to 200 C. the obtained film as in Embodiments 1 6 is amorphous. Various properties of this film are shown in .

The proportions of oxygen in the sputtering gas are changed to 3.0 and 5.0 and the same deposition as Embodiment 6 is carried out. It is confirmed by the X ray diffraction that the obtained films as in Embodiments 1 7 are amorphous. Various properties of these films are shown in .

On a PET film with a thickness of 125 m having a hard coat on one surface a film with a thickness of 50 nm is deposited at room temperature on the same condition as Embodiment 2 and is evaluated by a pen sliding endurance test. A load of 5.0 N is applied to a pen whose tip shape is 0.8 mm R made with polyacetal and a straight sliding test is made hundred thousand times fifty thousand times in reciprocating motion with respect to a PET film substrate with the transparent conductive film. In this case a sliding distance is set to 30 mm and a sliding speed to 60 mm sec. After this sliding endurance test observations are carried out by the naked eye and a stereomicroscope but whitening peeling and cracking of the film in a sliding portion are not recognized.

The sintered body targets for transparent conductive film fabrication are prepared on the same conditions as in Embodiment 2 with the exception that the Ga contents indicated by Ga Ga In are changed to 40 49.0 and 66 at. . In the densities resistivities and InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 peak intensity ratios obtained by X ray diffraction of the sintered body targets are shown.

Subsequently these targets are used and depositions are performed by techniques similar to those of Embodiments 1 3. No abnormal discharge is produced on the depositions. On investigation as to the structures of the obtained thin films with the X ray diffraction all the thin films are amorphous. Various properties of these films are shown in .

The sintered body targets similar to those of Embodiments 1 3 are prepared by changing sintering temperatures to 1100 and 1200 C. In the relative densities and resistivities of the sintered body targets are shown. On structural analysis with the X ray diffraction the GaInOphase is little produced at a sintering temperature of 1100 C. and only the Ga In Ophase and the InOphase are produced. Therefore the InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 peak intensity ratio cannot be found. It is obvious that the InOphase 400 peak intensity is higher than in Embodiments 1 3 and a large number of InOphases are produced. At a sintering temperature of 1200 C. three phases namely the GaInOphase the Ga In Ophase and the InOphase are produced. In only the InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 peak intensity ratio at 1200 C. is shown. On deposition using a target at a sintering temperature of 1100 C. the arc discharge often occurs during the deposition. Even when a target at a sintering temperature of 1200 C. is used the arc discharge although not so often as the case of 1100 C. considerably occurs. Specifically when targets sintered at 1100 C. and 1200 C. and having densities below 5.8 g cmare used arcing is often generated during sputter deposition. This causes the problem that stable deposition cannot be achieved in such a manner that the film is damaged and the fluctuation of the deposition rate is heavy. As a result of the structural analysis with the X ray diffraction all the films obtained are amorphous. Various properties of these films are shown in .

The proportion of oxygen in the sputtering gas is changed to 6.0 and the same deposition as in Embodiments 8 and 9 is performed. It is confirmed by the X ray diffraction that the film thus obtained as in Embodiments 8 and 9 is amorphous. Various properties of this film are shown in .

An ITO target 10 wt. SnO is used for the same substrate as Embodiment 10 and the deposition is performed at room temperature by the same specification as Embodiments 1 3 with the exception that the proportion of oxygen is changed to 2.0 . From the surface observation of the film by an AFM an atomic force microscope Nanoscope III by Digital Instruments Co. Ltd. the crystal phase with a projection of about 10 nm is recognized in the amorphism. The same straight sliding test as in Embodiment 8 is made with respect to a film substrate with an ITO film. After this test from observations carried out by the naked eye and the stereomicroscope whitening peeling and cracking of the film in a sliding portion are recognized.

From the results of Embodiments 1 9 in the features of the transparent conductive film of the present invention which is chiefly composed of Ga In and O and in which the Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In ranges from 49.1 at. to 65 at. are seen. Specifically the film has properties necessary and satisfactory for the display device whose film surface is extremely flat that the work function is as high as 5.1 eV the refractive index for light with a wavelength of 633 nm is as low as 1.65 1.85 the resistivity is 9.0 10 cm or less and the arithmetic mean height Ra is 2.0 nm or less.

Similarly from the results of Embodiments 1 9 the features of the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication of the present invention which is chiefly composed of Ga In and O and in which the Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In ranges from 49.1 at. to 65 at. are seen. Specifically the X ray diffraction peak intensity ratio defined by Equation A described below is 45 or less the density is 5.8 g cmor more and the resistivity is 9.0 10 cm or less so that the target has properties necessary and satisfactory to obtain the transparent conductive film. InOphase 400 GaInOphase 111 100 A 

In particular from each of Embodiments 2 6 it is seen that when the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication with a density of 6.2 g cmor more is used and the deposition is performed at room temperature the work function is at least 5.2 eV and the refractive index for light of wavelength 633 nm is in the range from 1.7 to 1.8.

From Comparative examples 1 3 it is seen that when the transparent conductive film of the present invention in which the Ga content indicated by Ga Ga In ranges from 49.1 at. to 65 at. is outside its composition range original features are not exhibited. Specifically when the Ga content is below 49.1 at. or beyond 65 at. the work function becomes less than 5.1 eV and the refractive index for light of wavelength 633 nm exceeds 1.85.

As seen from Comparative examples 4 and 5 when the X ray peak intensity ratio of the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication defined by the above description exceeds 45 the film fabricated by using the target although within the composition range is such that the work function becomes less than 5.1 eV and the refractive index for light of wavelength 633 nm exceeds 1.85.

As seen from Comparative example 6 when excessive oxygen is introduced to perform the deposition the film exhibits a high resistance value exceeding the resistivity values ranging from 1.0 10to 1.0 10 cm. However in the case where the conductivity is unnecessary and the application is limited to optics alone this film is useful.

By comparison between Embodiment 10 and Comparative example 7 it has been demonstrated that the transparent conductive film of the present invention in contrast with the conventional ITO film is hard to deteriorate with respect to a dynamic action from the exterior. Specifically it has become clear that the transparent conductive film fabricated by using the sintered body target for transparent conductive film fabrication has properties necessary and satisfactory for the display device such as a touch panel or an electronic paper.

