---

title: Configuration of telephony services for phone based on user location
abstract: Telephony features for a phone are configured based on the location of a user of the phone. A system receives location data corresponding to a location of the phone. An operational mode is selected from stored operational modes based on the location data. The operational mode of the user phone is set to the selected mode. In one mode, a reply message is provided to the caller that is associated with the location of the phone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08948787&OS=08948787&RS=08948787
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08948787
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081223
---
At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate to computer information systems in general and more particularly but not limited to configuration of telephony features for a phone based on the location of a user of the phone.

Existing telephony networks provide cell phone users with a variety of features. Users may configure these features using a web site provided by the network operator.

When attending or participating in activities such as watching a movie or concert cell phone users often turn off their cell phone to avoid interruption of the event. Users typically do this voluntarily or when prompted by a message at the venue of the activity. When the cell phone is turned off the user cannot be reached by a caller. In other situations a user may set his or her phone to a vibration mode so it remains quiet during the activity or a user may configure his or her phone so that only calls having a higher priority create an audible ringtone. However users consistently desire that additional features be made available by their network providers and or phone manufacturers for use with their phones.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or similar means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

As used herein a phone means any cellular phone telephone or other type of phone or any computing device that provides voice communications for a user e.g. a mobile laptop or palm computer running Voice over IP VoIP software or any personal or other electronic device that provides voice communications for a user. Examples of phones include phones using VoIP.

A user of a phone is a person using a phone. A user of a phone includes for example a cellular or other phone system subscriber. A user for example receives calls from callers.

A caller is a person initiating a call to a user of a phone. A caller for example dials the user s phone number to initiate the call. A caller may be for example a subscriber to the same or a different network as that of the phone user.

In general the various embodiments described herein relate to a method to configure the telephony features for a phone based on the location of a user of the phone. First the location of the user is determined. Then the telephony features are configured based on the location.

The method permits a user at a location participating in an event e.g. a canoe trip to enjoy telephony or phone features that are more desirable for the user while participating in that event. For example a call to the user may receive a customized reply message indicating that the user is currently engaged in a specific activity related to the user s location.

Further the telephony features may include aspects that are desirable to an operator of the event e.g. the merchant that provides the canoe services . For example the telephony features may include a message to a caller that contains an advertisement by the operator e.g. an advertisement that promotes the canoe services to callers including discount offers .

The operation of the phone when the user is not present at certain locations may remain unchanged e.g. remain in a default or normal operational mode . For example if the phone is not at one of a list of predetermined locations then the phone may simply complete a call to the user normally e.g. by ringing through or by going to a normal or default voice mail .

The location of the user may be determined in many ways. For example the phone may be configured or designed so that it can be swiped across a detection device e.g. a magnetic strip a GPS sensor may be used in the phone the phone may detect a Wi Fi or Bluetooth network associated with the location or RFID may be used to determine the location. For example after determining a GPS location the user phone may send location data to the phone network.

Other examples of determining location include the user s calling a phone number advertised at the location with the user s phone number being identified by caller ID during the call and the location being associated with the phone number called. Similarly the user may send an SMS message to a number advertised at the location. As additional examples the user may interact with a web server at the location e.g. to enter information that identifies the user s phone or to automatically communicate with the web server to detect the user s presence at the location . As an alternative example the user may enter information into a web site on the Internet in advance of the user s actually arriving at a location e.g. by specifying the time during which the user will be at the location . As another example the user may swipe a credit or smart card at the location so as to identify the user.

The telephony features may be configured in numerous ways to vary the manner in which the user phone will handle or respond to calls from callers. It should be noted that the telephony features may be configured in one of two general ways as discussed further below. In a first way the telephony features are configured in the telephony network itself. In the second way the telephony features are configured on the user phone itself.

The types of telephony features that may be varied include incoming call handling e.g. sending a reply message to a caller . For example the features may be configured so that the user s phone operates in a do not disturb state provides a reply message and sends the caller to voicemail. The telephony features may optionally be varied for an event time period specified by the user when arriving at the location or a predetermined time period previously associated with the location.

As mentioned above a call from a caller may receive a recorded message in reply that is customized for the location. For example the message may be previously recorded by the user or may be provided by an entity associated with the location e.g. advertisement . As another example the reply message may be rendered by text to speech technology.

Other examples of temporary location based settings may include but are not limited to temporary forwarding of the call to another number temporary forwarding of the call to a voice mailbox to prevent the user s phone from ringing during the selected time period and the use of a temporary special message that may or may not have content related to the current location of the user e.g. the content may not disclose the user s location due to the user s desire for privacy .

In this first embodiment the telephony features configuration is executed on the network rather than on the phone device. The location of user phone may be determined by one or more approaches as was discussed above. For example when phone is determined to be at location then the telephony services provided by telephony system are changed or configured in a way to correspond to location as was discussed above and as further discussed below . The user phone need not be involved in the configuration by telephony system if the user or another source or device is providing the user location to telephony system .

In telephony system provides network services to user phone operated by user . A caller uses caller device to call user phone using communication network .

The location of user phone again may be determined by one or more approaches as was discussed above. However in this second embodiment the location determination and information from this determination is received by phone rather than telephony system . For example a data processing system e.g. a local Wi Fi server operating a Wi Fi network may be physically located at location . User phone may detect e.g. using Wi Fi communications link the presence of data processing system e.g. by detecting the Wi Fi network and associating the network with location .

When phone determines that it is physically at location then phone changes or configures its telephony features in a way that corresponds to location . For example phone may store a number of messages each corresponding to a location. When phone identifies location then phone may select and provide a reply message to a caller via telephony system wherein the reply message is customized to location in one or possibly more than one way.

Various other specific embodiments are now described in more detail. In another embodiment a method implemented in a data processing system e.g. a telephony network system for providing a message in reply to a call by a caller to a phone of a user includes receiving location data corresponding to a location of the user selecting a selected message from a plurality of messages based at least on the location data and providing in response to the call to the user the selected message to the caller.

In another embodiment a method implemented by a phone of a user for providing a message in reply to a call by a caller to the phone includes connecting with a data processing system at a location in the proximity of the user receiving a message associated with the location and providing in response to the call to the user the message to the caller.

In yet another embodiment a method implemented in a data processing system for setting an operational mode of a phone of a user includes storing a plurality of operational modes for the phone receiving location data corresponding to a location of the user selecting a selected mode from the plurality of operational modes based at least on the location data and setting the operational mode of the phone to the selected mode.

The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

In one embodiment the telephony features for a user s phone can be configured so that the user is not disturbed during an event e.g. concert or movie occurring at a location. The configuration may be associated with or triggered by the location e.g. by detection of the phone at the location as discussed in more detail below. Instead of receiving a call from a caller the caller may be provided with a message that is customized in some manner to correspond to the current location of the user e.g. an identification or advertisement associated with a merchant operating at the location or a message that describes the event in which the user is participating at the location as discussed in more detail below. The user may be given the option as to whether a default message or the customized message is provided to the caller e.g. depending on the identity of the caller or privacy settings of the user . Various embodiments are discussed below.

In user phone of user interacts with server over a communication network e.g. the Internet wireless network cable or satellite television communications system cellular communications system etc. . For example user phone may be a cellular phone communication network may be operated by a cellular service provider and server may be operated by the same service provider. Telephony system may be for example implemented using server .

Caller device may be for example a cellular phone or other communication device that sends communications over communication network in the form of a call to user phone by caller .

Server is connected to a database e.g. a distributed data storage facility to receive and store various information from server . Examples include message content user privacy settings user operational modes and other user data . Server may receive user privacy settings user operational modes and or other user data from user phone or otherwise from user e.g. via an end user website not shown controlled by the operator of network .

Message content includes a number of messages from which a selected message is selected for providing in reply to caller . Message content may be created by the operator of network by a merchant operating at location and or by user . The providing of reply messages with advertisements e.g. obtained from message content to caller and other callers may generate advertising revenue for the entity operating server or network . The advertisement may be for example for a merchant having a physical business facility at location . User data may be used in or referenced during the creation of reply messages. User data may include for example a friend s list of user and caller being on the friend s list may be a condition for sending a certain type of reply message to caller .

Server may include one or more web servers or other types of data communication servers to communicate with user phone or caller device .

Server receives location information which includes location data for identifying the physical location of user phone and which may include location content . For example user phone may send GPS location data to server based on its location as determined by a GPS locating system in user phone . Other approaches may be used to determine the location of user phone which provide location data to server . Location information may be stored for example on server or in database .

Server includes a messaging module and a content module . Messaging module controls the handling of incoming calls from callers e.g. caller and the providing of reply messages to these calls using location information .

Content module manages the storage and access of content to be provided in reply messages to callers to user phone e.g. caller . For example content module uses location data to find message content that corresponds to location .

In one embodiment server receives information that provides an identity of user phone . For example this identity may be provided by caller device when user phone is called. Content module may use this phone identity to reference the message content applicable to user phone . Also in other embodiments selection of a reply message from message content does not require referencing the identity of user phone and location data alone may be used to select the reply message.

User phone may include a sensor and a communication device . Sensor may be for example an element of a proximity or other type of sensor e.g. magnetic used to determine when user phone is physically present at location .

Location may also include a data processing system which may be for example a kiosk located for convenient physical access by user when visiting location . For example user may physically pass user phone near e.g. within three feet or less the kiosk in order for data processing system to detect the physical presence of user phone e.g. by use of sensor .

Communication device may be for example a Bluetooth transceiver used for wireless coupling over communications link with a communication device at location . User phone and or data processing system may periodically broadcast a signal searching for a possible coupling with another device that may be actively operating in conformance with a system as described herein.

Location may include a sensor used for detecting the presence of phone . Sensor may interact with sensor of user phone . Other forms of detecting the physical presence of user phone may include for example radio frequency identification RFID and user phone detecting a signature for a wireless network at location .

Data processing system may be coupled to a GPS locating system which may for example send GPS location data to server when the presence of user phone has been detected. In another embodiment data processing system may send predetermined GPS or other location data e.g. predetermined GPS data for location when it is a fixed geographic location .

In yet other embodiments database may store a plurality of phone numbers each associated with a location. User may call a phone number corresponding to location e.g. this phone number may be displayed or posted for users at location . Server may determine the phone number called e.g. from caller identification ID data and then associate the called phone number with one of the stored phone numbers in order to identify location from other locations. This identification provides location data for use by content module in selecting a message from message content or selecting an operational mode from user operational modes .

Location is typically a fixed geographic location. However in alternative embodiments location may correspond to a location on a moving vehicle e.g. cruise ship airplane or bus . User may desire for example that the reply message to caller be the same during the user s presence on a vehicle.

Data processing system may also store message content which may for example be created by a merchant or other entity at location e.g. the sponsor of a concert or operator of a cruise ship . System may send message content to server for storage as location content so that messaging module may incorporate customized content from location with message content prior to providing a reply message to caller .

In one embodiment message content may include content created while the user is active at the location e.g. a video of user performing an activity at location such as rafting or riding a roller coaster . Data processing system may send the content created at location to server for updating of location content to be incorporated into reply messages.

In alternative embodiments data processing system may send message content directly to caller device or to another network system not shown but coupled to communication network as an example that will provide a reply message to caller device that includes message content . In other embodiments content module may command the selection of the reply message from message content and the reply message may be provided by data processing system from location .

In an alternative embodiment after data processing system and user phone have discovered one another a reply message from message content is sent from system to user phone with or without the use of communication network e.g. communications link may be used . System may select the message using an identity of user phone e.g. as determined by manual input of user into data processing system at location or even remotely in advance of arrival at location . The reply message is then sent from user phone to caller device e.g. over communication network .

In one embodiment user phone may submit multimedia content to server that may be included in message content e.g. for incorporating user customized items into reply messages to callers . For example in one embodiment user phone includes a digital still picture camera or a digital video camera.

User operational modes or user privacy settings may include various user preference criteria used to select the information to be presented to or other actions taken for user phone . For example modes or settings may include a requirement that a caller be listed in a preference list of user prior to the caller receiving a customized reply message.

In one embodiment the user operational modes and or user privacy settings are configurable pluggable and tunable by user . For example user may select a set of operational modes or privacy settings from a set of pre defined criteria or add custom designed criterion or adjust the parameters of the selected criteria. Server may provide customized reply messages to caller subject to the user privacy settings . Also the setting of user phone to a user operational mode may be subject to user privacy settings .

In one specific example of an operational mode for user phone the reply message informs caller that user is participating in an activity at location and further may include instructions for reaching the user in an emergency e.g. by providing a predetermined code such as pressing a 1 or 2 button on the caller device . User phone may be set to a vibrate only mode while user is at location .

Although illustrates an exemplary system implemented in a phone network architecture embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented in various alternative architectures.

In some embodiments a combination of client server architecture and peer to peer architecture can be used in which one or more centralized servers e.g. server may be used to provide some of the information and or services and the peer to peer network is used to provide other information and or services. Thus embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to a particular architecture.

Several additional non limiting examples of phones and data processing systems for managing calls to phones and reply messages for callers to a phone of a user e.g. a subscriber are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 164 762 issued Jan. 16 2007 titled ENHANCED CALL FEATURE SERVICE U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0069097 published Mar. 31 2005 titled ENHANCED CALL NOTIFICATION SERVICE and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0069104 published Mar. 31 2005 titled CALL MANAGEMENT SERVICE all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Also non limiting examples of systems for managing a telecommunications call in a telecommunications network from a caller to an end user are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 545 589 issued Apr. 8 2003 titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING TELECOMMUNICATIONS and U.S. Pat. No. 5 842 112 issued Nov. 24 1998 titled PERSONAL COMMUNICATOR SYSTEM FOR IDENTIFYING A TELEPHONE WHICH IS DISPOSED PROXIMATE A LOCATOR TRANSMITTER all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In addition non limiting examples of systems for determining the location of a network activated mobile phone and for users to leave or access messages that become available due to the physical location of a wireless network subscriber s device are described in U.S. Patent Application No. 2004 0214550 published Oct. 28 2004 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD OF ACCESSING AND RECORDING MESSAGES AT COORDINATE WAY POINTS which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While illustrates various components of a computer system it is not intended to represent any particular architecture or manner of interconnecting the components. Other systems that have fewer or more components may also be used.

In the system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment a data processing system as illustrated in may be used to implement one or more servers. In another embodiment a data processing system as illustrated in is used to implement various components of user phone .

In some embodiments one or more servers of a network or system can be replaced with the service of a peer to peer network of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or a distributed computing system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the microprocessor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the microprocessor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the microprocessor s without additional instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

In the position identification unit is used to identify a geographic location of the user. The position identification unit may include a satellite positioning system receiver such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to automatically identify the current position of the user phone . In the communication device is configured to communicate with server .

In one embodiment the user input device is configured to generate user data content. The user input device may include a text input device a still image camera a video camera and or a sound recorder etc.

In server stores several user operational modes for user phone . Server receives location data corresponding to a location of user phone . Content module selects a selected mode of operation for user phone based at least on the location data . Server initiates a command to set the operational mode of user phone to the selected mode e.g. during a time duration input by user or provided by a system or operator at location .

In one embodiment a message e.g. SMS message is sent to user phone when detected at location so that user may affirmatively confirm activation of a customized reply message for that location or decline participation for that specific location. Also the sending of location data from user phone or from location may be made conditional on receiving approval from user e.g. by entering a reply or command on user phone .

In addition user may be provided with an option to specify a time period e.g. 1 or 2 hours or longer in which customized reply messages will be sent and after which no further messages associated with location are sent . Server or data processing system may handle this query process.

In the description above various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning phone communication networks computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others. The instructions may be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

