---

title: Initiating a wireless communication session from contact information on a computer
abstract: A communication session between a wireless communication device and one or more recipient communication devices is initiated in response to user input received at a separate computing device. The intended parties of the call are identified at the computing device in response to the user input. Once the intended parties have been identified, the calling instructions are generated and transmitted to the wireless communication device or a server, which cause a call to be initiated between a wireless communication device and one or more recipient communication devices. This allows a caller to utilize the functionality and resources available on a computer to initiate a call, while enabling the caller to utilize the functionality and resources available on the caller's wireless communication device to engage in and complete the call, without requiring the caller to communicate through the telephony applications of a computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07747265&OS=07747265&RS=07747265
owner: Core Mobility, Inc.
number: 07747265
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 865 576 filed on Jun. 10 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to wireless communications and more particularly to the initiation of wireless communication sessions.

Advances in wireless communications have helped to extend the capabilities and popularity of wireless communication devices such as wireless telephones. However despite the conveniences and utility provided by existing wireless communication devices there are still certain constraints that can sometimes limit their use. For example the restricted memory capacity of some wireless communication devices or the difficulty of synchronizing with the user s remote contacts directory can effectively prevent a complete telephone directory from being stored on wireless devices. In such circumstances it may be necessary to access a contact directory that is stored in another place such as a personal computer or a telephone book or other contact list in order to find a telephone number or URI that is necessary to initiate a communication session. Reference to the term communication session herein includes but it is not limited to communication over a network such as telephone call over a cellular network over the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or over an Internet Protocol IP network. It may also include communication via pager walkie talkie network based instant connect communication also known as Push to Talk or any other type of communication session that can be initiated from a wireless device. For convenience in describing the embodiments of the invention the term communication session may be used interchangeably with the term call .

Although the memory capacity in some of the more advanced wireless communication devices is sufficient to enable the storage of entire personal directories some of these advanced devices also provide menu options that can increase the difficulty of learning how to utilize the storage capabilities of the device including the contact directory storage capabilities. Additionally as the contact list on a wireless communication device grows it becomes more difficult and time consuming to find a particular contact. For at least these reasons some users prefer to rely on their own personal memory or secondary telephone directories that have already been created rather than having to learn how to download or synchronize the contact entries onto their personal communication devices.

In some cases it may be difficult or inconvenient for a user to download or synchronize the contact directories that exist within the software applications running on their personal computers. For example email applications gaming applications instant messaging applications calendar applications telephony applications and many other applications provide contact directories that can be presented to a user through a graphical user interface for user interaction. These interfaces however are not always compatible with the directory formats provided by many wireless communication devices thereby increasing the difficulty in extracting the desired contact information and storing it in a format supported by the device thereby forcing the user to look up contact information on the personal computer and then input the information into the wireless device either to store it for later use or to initiate a communication session.

To avoid some of the foregoing limitations some people have begun to make wireline telephone calls directly from their personal computers. For example some of the telephone directories that are configured to reside on computing devices include links to corresponding telephony and modem applications that enable a user to place a wireline telephone call directly from their personal computer to one or more recipient communication devices and in direct response to a selection of a recipient s name telephone number or other contact information from the contact directory.

Initiating a telephone call from a personal computer in this manner can be useful because of the convenience and familiarity in finding the contact information that is necessary to initiate the call. It can also be useful to initiate a call from a personal computer when the caller intends to utilize the computer during the call to access other information that may be a subject of conversation during the call because the caller may have to maintain a presence at the computer. Furthermore telephone numbers and other contact information are often contained within the text of an email a web page or another document on the personal computer making it more convenient to initiate a communication session from the personal computer rather than having to input the telephone number or other contact information into a separate device to initiate the session.

One problem with initiating a call in the foregoing manner however is that the caller s personal computer may not have adequate telephony capabilities to provide the quality that is desired during the call. Likewise the caller may wish to communicate with the recipient via a wireless communication device so that the user can have the flexibility to move around away from the computer at various times during the call for any particular reason. It may also be preferable for the caller to place the call with a wireless communication device because of favorable billing options and rates that may not be available through the computing device.

In summary even though the contact directories of a personal computer can sometimes provide a convenient way to place a wireline telephone call with an intended recipient callers may not wish to initiate a call through the computer because they do not want to engage in the actual telephone conversation though their computer s telephony applications for any number of reasons including cost convenience quality preference and so forth.

The present invention is directed to the initiation of communication sessions such as telephone calls and instant connect communication sessions also known as Push to Talk sessions between the wireless communication device of a caller and one or more recipient communication devices in response to caller input received at a separate computing device such as a personal computer without requiring the caller to communicate through the telephony applications of the computing device.

According to one embodiment the caller provides input at a computing device that identifies a wireless communication device of the caller and one or more recipient communication devices that are to be utilized during a call. Identification of the caller s wireless communication device and the recipient communication devices can occur through the use of specialized user interfaces or existing application interfaces that are configured or modified to present contact information including information about the caller s wireless communication device and the recipient communication devices to the caller at the computing device.

Once the caller has identified the intended parties of the call and sometimes the modality of the call as described herein the computing device transmits calling instructions to the caller s wireless communication device that enable or cause the wireless communication device to call the one or more recipient communication devices. In this manner the caller can utilize the contacts directory and other contact resources available on his computer to initiate the call while using the functionality and resources available on the caller s wireless communication device to engage in and complete the call without requiring the caller to communicate through the telephony applications of the computing device.

In certain embodiments the calling instructions are provided to the caller s wireless communication device through a remote server such as a call initiation server which is configured to further process and transmit the calling instructions to the caller s wireless communication device. In other embodiments the call initiation server communicates with a conference server which are well known in the art and that is configured to initiate the call by making outbound calls to the caller s wireless communication device and the recipient communication devices and then bridging the calls together. This can be particularly useful when the intended call is a conference call that includes a large number of recipients. In such embodiments the conference server can make the calls simultaneously or sequentially. In other embodiments the call initiation server can initiate the call by providing instructions to the caller s wireless communication device that cause the device to place the call to the one or more recipient communication devices.

These methods enhance the usefulness of wireless communication devices and of contacts directories stored on personal computers. Additionally they make use of other contact information such as telephone numbers and URIs contained within emails web pages and other documents residing on personal computers. In contrast to structured contacts lists or directories contact information that is contained in such documents is in a free form and despite not being in a formatted contacts list or directory is nonetheless recognizable as contact information and can be used according to the invention to initiate calls. Wireless callers can now place wireless calls by interacting with contact information located on personal computers. In addition the methods of the invention push call traffic to wireless networks which is beneficial for wireless service providers and for users who prefer to engage in wireless calls.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

According to various embodiments of the present invention a communication session is initiated between a wireless communication device and one or more recipient communication devices in response to caller input that is entered at a computing device that is independent of the wireless communication device and recipient communication devices.

Caller input received at the computing device can be used to help identify the intended parties of a call namely the wireless communication device used by the caller and one or more recipient communication devices that are to be connected to participate in the call. Based on input by the user the computing device then generates and transmits calling instructions that are to be used to initiate the call between the identified wireless communication device and the recipient communication devices.

As previously noted the term communication session as used herein is generally defined as a communication session between two or more communication devices and for convenience is sometimes referred to herein as a call The call can include any number of modalities such as a half duplex communication which is often referred to as push to talk communication and which is hereinafter referred to as network based instant connect communication a full duplex wireless call over a packet data network or a circuit switched network a wireline call over the public switched telephone network PSTN or other types of network based communication. The communication can include text audio images video script and programming data that is transmitted through digital and or analog signals. Although the term call is sometimes used in reference to a telephone call the term telephone should not be construed as limiting the interpretation and scope of the invention with regard to the term call .

The terms wireless communication device and recipient communication device generally refer to the intended parties of a call. More specifically the wireless communication device and recipient communication device refer to the telephones or other communication devices that are connected and engage in communication during the call. In general the wireless communication device and the recipient communication devices are separate and distinct from the computing device that is used to receive user input identifying the intended parties of the call and to generate the calling instructions for initiating the call.

A wireless communication device is used by the calling party in conjunction with the methods of the invention. However the recipient communication devices can include any combination of wired or wireless telephone devices including landline telephones pagers radios computing devices with telephony capabilities such as PDAs and smart phones and other similar communication devices that are capable of communicating with other communication devices over a network such as a cellular network a packet data network an 802.11 network or the public switched telephone network PSTN .

The term calling instructions broadly refers to any data or information that can be used by a server or communication device to place a call to another communication device. The calling instructions can include for example a telephone number a session initiation protocol SIP uniform resource identifier URI or other URI a pager number caller identification information a time to place a call modality of the call one or more services to use or apply during the call and any other instructions that can be used to control enhance or modify the call.

It should be understood that the arrangements and processes described herein are set forth for purposes of example only and other arrangements and elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders of elements etc. can be added or used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location and by software firmware and or hardware.

Initially the computing devices and of and respectively comprise a special purpose or general purpose computer that includes various computer hardware and software. Embodiments of the computing device can include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures referred to herein as modules and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired and wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions.

The computing device is capable of executing modules e.g. computer executable instructions that enable it to execute the acts and described below. For example the computer executable instructions enable the computing device to provide access to contact information for user selection to receive user input and to generate calling instructions in response to the user input thereby facilitating the initiation of a call in response to input received at the computing device and between various other communication devices as described herein.

With regard to receiving user input computing devices and can be configured to receive user input through various input sources such as keyboards mouses touch pads microphones and corresponding speech recognition software and through any other suitable input means including but not limited to wireless input devices.

Although computing devices and are shown to have the form factor of desktop computers and are often referred to herein as personal computers it will be appreciated that the physical configuration of the computing devices is not a limiting factor of the invention. For example in other embodiments computing devices and can include a portable laptop computer a PDA a kiosk one or more networked computers and combinations thereof. The computing devices can also include telephone devices and specialized computers that are independent or that are at least operably detachable from the wireless communication devices and . In one embodiment the computing device is also separate and remote from the call initiation server and the conference server.

In one embodiment of the invention depicted in computing device transmits calling instructions directly to the wireless communication device using a wireless network connection such as Bluetooth or 802.11 or a wireline connection such as an Ethernet or RS 232 cable connected to a PC either directly or using a cradle. In this embodiment the wireless communication device may use call initiation client software that can receive and interpret a data packet generated and transmitted from the call initiation software resident on computing device . The call initiation client software can then execute the calling instructions contained in the data packet. The call initiation client software on wireless communication device responds to calling instructions received from computing device by automatically initiating an outbound call to the one or more recipient communication devices which may include any combination of wireless and wireline devices reachable over a network. This initiation of the outbound call is performed automatically in the sense that in response to instructions from computing device the wireless communication device enters or otherwise selects one or more recipient telephone numbers. The outbound call may be initiated by the wireless communication device without requiring any user input at the wireless communication device or by only requiring the user to press a single button on the wireless communication device to initiate the call.

In one embodiment of the invention depicted in computing device generates calling instructions in response to user input and transmits the calling instructions over an IP network to call initiation server . The calling instructions include instructions for initiating a call between selected devices. The call initiation server includes sufficient hardware and software modules for processing calling instructions and for modifying the calling instructions into a suitable format for receipt and interpretation by the wireless communication device .

Call initiation server also includes sufficient hardware and software modules for communicating with various servers on the network such as the SMSC and for routing calling instructions to other servers in the network such as conference server when required.

In the embodiment depicted in call initiation server communicates with an SMSC to initiate generation and transmission of a Short Message Service SMS message that is sent from the SMSC to the wireless communication device . The SMS message includes calling instructions that cause the wireless communication device to dial one or more recipient communication devices. However other communication protocols such as the Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to notify wireless communication device of calling instructions. In the case where multiple recipient communication devices are selected to participate in a call the wireless communication device may utilize the inherent conference features of the device to set up a conference call between the devices.

In this embodiment computing device generates and transmits calling instructions to call initiation server in response to user input at computing device . Upon receipt of the calling instructions call initiation server determines the nature of the requested communication including the identities of the communication devices to be included in the call the type of call to be placed the modality of the call and any other instructions that may enhance or otherwise control the call. For example in response to the calling instructions call initiation server may communicate with conference server which includes computing modules that enable the conference server to place calls to both the wireless communication device as well as to the one or more recipient communication devices and to bridge the calls it places into a single conference call as described in more detail below. Alternatively call initiation server may communicate with SMSC to cause an SMS message which contains call back instructions to be generated and transmitted to all of the selected communication devices. The call back instructions prompt the communication devices and to dial into conference server whereupon the parties are connected for participation in the call. In this way the devices do not require any specialized client software to interpret the call back instructions they need only support the ability to receive an SMS message. However should wireless communication device be equipped with call initiation client software wireless communication device could be enabled to automatically respond to the call back instructions contained in the SMS message by dialing into the specified conference server without requiring user intervention.

As noted above one benefit of the use of a conference server is that the conference server itself initiates the telephone calls. Thus wireless communication device does not need to have any client software that is adapted for receiving and executing calling instructions as has been described above in reference to the embodiment of which requires wireless communication device to be equipped with call initiation client software in order to receive and process calling instructions from computing device . As a result the embodiment of is capable of being used with substantially any type of existing wireless communication device without modification of the wireless communication device. Alternatively wireless communication device may be equipped with call initiation client software in which case the functionality of the device in accordance with the invention may be enhanced. Yet another advantage of using a conference server is that additional recipient communication devices can be added to the call at any time while the call is in progress.

In some embodiments the call initiation servers and include authentication and validation modules that are capable of authenticating and validating computing device and so that the requests and corresponding calling instructions received from the computing device can be processed with a high degree of assurance that they were received from an authorized source.

The wireless communication devices and the recipient communication devices are each shown to have the form factor of a wireless telephone. The invention however is not limited to embodiments in which wireless communication devices and recipient communication devices comprise wireless telephones. Rather as mentioned above the wireless communication devices and and the recipient communication devices and can include any combination of communication device that is separate from computing devices and such as wireless telephones wireline telephones pagers communication enabled PDAs radio communication devices and so forth.

Now turning to certain methods of the invention will be described in reference to flowchart . In particular the illustrated flowchart includes various acts that can be performed by many of the aforementioned network components including the computing device the call initiation server the SMSC the conference server the wireless communication device and the recipient communication devices.

Initially the first four illustrated acts act of the method are shown as being performed at the computing device. However this should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. In particular as described below some of the acts shown in flowchart can be performed by the call initiation server. Furthermore certain methods of the invention include more acts than are illustrated or can be performed without executing each of the identified acts. Finally the order in which the acts are illustrated is not a limitation on the invention. Rather the acts can be performed in any appropriate sequence. For example in certain embodiments act may be performed prior to act . Likewise act may be performed prior to act . In some embodiments the acts may be performed simultaneously rather than in distinct steps as illustrated in .

In one embodiment corresponding with the illustrated flowchart the computing device provides call initiation software along with an interface for using its contact information to facilitate a call between a wireless communication device and one or more recipient communication devices act . This act can be executed whenever the computing device provides an interface such as a Graphical User Interface GUI or a voice activated interface for the user to access contact information that can be used to help identify the intended parties of a call. The interface can be an independent specialized interface corresponding to a discrete contact directory or alternatively an interface can be an integrated interface that is provided by an existing application such as an email calendar messaging or telephony application and so forth. Alternatively a generalized interface such as a right click context menu may be used that allows call initiation to any communication address including a telephone number SIP URI or other URI.

According to one exemplary embodiment the interface allows a user to select from a list of one or more potential recipients and to select one or more corresponding recipient communication devices act that are to be called. For example the interface may provide a list of people to contact along with various contact numbers e.g. telephone number fax number pager number etc. that can be used when connecting with their various communication devices. The user can then select or provide this information at the computing device. The selection of the contact information can be made in any suitable manner such as by double clicking on a displayed object or by right clicking on the object and then selecting an action from a right click context menu.

In another example the selection of the recipient party and intended recipient communication devices can be made by dragging and dropping contact information or icons corresponding to the intended recipients onto other objects or icons that are associated with the software applications of the invention and that are configured to generate and send calling instructions to the wireless communication device or the call initiation server. In such embodiments the interface or objects receiving the user input can be configured to extract the necessary contact information that is required to place the call. For example if a contact object from a contact list in an email application is selected in such a manner as to indicate that the user intends to call the corresponding contact the appropriate telephone number or other contact number that is included within the email contact object can be extracted and used to generate appropriate calling instructions for calling the contact. In some situations however the extraction cannot be performed automatically but will instead require the user to manually supply the number of the contact to be called. Likewise in some circumstances the contact may be associated with multiple contact numbers and devices which requires the user to indicate which of the contact numbers or devices to use. In another implementation the user can right click or otherwise select contact information such as a telephone number from the text in a document or an email and through a specialized user interface cause initiation of a call to that telephone number.

Although the foregoing example may require a new or specialized interface existing application directories can be modified through application programming interfaces APIs or other programming modules to identify and intercept the selection of a contact entry made at the existing application directories and interfaces without requiring the user to open or interact with an entirely new application. In particular the existing applications can be configured to present a user interface for call initiation and interact with a separate call initiation application to automatically route contact information through a modem or router to the appropriate servers or wireless communication devices which generate the appropriate calling instructions without requiring the user to open or utilize a separate application at the computing device.

The next illustrated act in the method of is to identify or select a wireless communication device that is to be used for calling the one or more recipient communication devices act . The selection of the wireless communication device can be performed manually through the use of the interface described above or through a separate interface by prompting a caller for user input at the computing device that identifies or selects the wireless communication device to use for making the call. In another embodiment the selection of the wireless communication device occurs automatically or selects a default device based on user input that was previously provided such as during installation of corresponding computer modules or based on information that is already stored on the computing device. Alternatively the selection of the communication device can be established and performed at the call initiation server and based on preferences previously specified by the user and on device information that is accessed or known by the servers about the device such as the telephone number of the wireless communication device. The call initiation client and or server software may further be enabled to take into account various calling plans to which the caller subscribes as a criterion for communication device selection.

The final illustrated act of identifying or selecting a call type and modality act can also be performed by the call initiation server and although it is illustrated in as being performed only by the computing device. The act of identifying the call type and modality can involve several stages. Initially identifying the call type may be as simple as determining whether the call is a two party call or a conference call. The identification of the call type can also involve the identification of the type of media e.g. text or multimedia messages audio communication file transfer video and so forth that are to be transmitted during the call. The identification of the call type can be automatically determined based on default settings known capabilities of the communication devices and other constraints or an interface can be employed at the computing device to prompt the user for input that can help to select the call type. An example of the act of identifying the modality of the call may include selecting a half duplex modality such as a network based instant connect communication session or the selection of a traditional full duplex telephone call.

In one embodiment the various calling information that is identified at the computing device or call initiation server is referred to generically as calling instructions although calling instructions are not necessarily limited to the calling information identified at the computing device. Accordingly in other embodiments the calling instructions also include various other data or scripts that can be generated at network elements other than computing device and and that can be used to control or otherwise modify how the call is placed.

In particular upon identifying all of the necessary information to establish a call additional calling instructions that can affect or control the call can be generated at the computing device or the call initiation server to affect how the call occurs between the client communication device and the one or more recipient communication devices. For example the calling instructions can be modified by the call initiation server to include a script that causes the wireless communication device to place the call with the intended recipients at a particular time in a particular way. Similarly the call initiation server may modify the calling instructions for receipt and processing by another server in the network such as an SMSC or a conference server. For example the call initiation server can instruct the SMSC server to generate and send SMS messages to the wireless communication device and other recipient communication devices that cause the devices to place the desired calls.

In certain embodiments the calling instructions are not modified but are instead merely transmitted from the computing device to the wireless communication device. For example in such embodiments the call initiation server can transfer the calling instructions to the wireless communication device upon receiving them from the computing device act and without modifying them. The act of providing calling instructions to the wireless communication device act can be performed automatically and indiscriminately or alternatively on a discriminate basis and only upon satisfying certain criteria such as only upon authenticating and validating the computing device as an authorized device to initiate the call. In yet other embodiments such as the one illustrated in the calling instructions can be transmitted directly from the computing device to the wireless communication device through an appropriate network connection thereby bypassing the call initiation server altogether.

Upon receiving the calling instructions the wireless communication device places a call to the one or more recipient communication devices that are identified by the calling instructions and in the manner so specified. For example if the calling instructions specify that a network based instant connect call should be placed to the wireless telephone of recipient A at a particular time then the caller s wireless communication device calls the wireless telephone of recipient A at the device identification number specified at the appropriate time and using the specified modality. If there are multiple recipients that are to be called simultaneously such as to enable a conference call then the wireless communication device calls each of the intended recipients in the manner necessary to complete the conference call.

In another embodiment the wireless communication device and the one or more intended recipient communication devices receive a message such as an SMS or SIP message that include calling instructions that cause each of the devices to individually call a conference server that subsequently bridges the individual calls together into a single conference call as generally described above.

In yet another embodiment the call initiation server can instruct the conference server to connect the conference call by calling each of the identified calling parties e.g. caller s wireless communication device and recipient communication devices on separate calls and then bridging the calls together acts and . The calls can either be placed simultaneously or sequentially and in any desired order. For example in one embodiment the caller s wireless communication device is the first device that is called then and only then are the other intended recipient communication devices called. In one embodiment the ability to place such a conference call is enabled by the modules stored at the conference server. In other embodiments however the placing of a conference call can also be performed through the modules and functionality provided by the wireless communication device. For example as mentioned above the call initiation server may simply transmit the calling instructions to the wireless communication device which then uses standard calling features to establish a conference call with the intended recipient communication devices.

The foregoing methods as generally described enable a caller to initiate a call at a computing device that is completed through a wireless communication device that is separate and independent of the computing device used to initiate the call. One advantage this provides over prior art techniques for placing calls is that the caller can utilize the functionality and utility of the computing device and corresponding applications to access contact information of the intended recipients and to quickly initiate a communication session while enabling the caller to utilize the functionality quality and utility of a wireless communication device to engage in and complete the call without requiring the caller to utilize the telephony capabilities of the computing device. Another advantage provided by the present invention is that callers do not need to download each of their contact entries into their wireless device contact directories or to navigate through their wireless device contact directories in order to place the call. Instead the call can be quickly and efficiently placed at the computing device using existing contact information.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

