---

title: Method of making a probe tip
abstract: A probe includes a substrate and a tetragonal structure disposed on the substrate that has four end points. Three of the end points are disposed adjacent to the substrate. A fourth of the end points extends outwardly and substantially normal to the substrate. In a method of making a probe tip, a plurality of tetrapods are grown and at least one of the tetrapods is placed on a substrate at a selected location. The tetrapod is affixed to the substrate at the selected location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07975363&OS=07975363&RS=07975363
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 07975363
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080610
---
This application is a divisional of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 352 535 filed Feb. 13 2006 Now U.S. Pat. No. 7 408 366 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with support from the U.S. government under grant number ECS 0210332 awarded by National Science Foundation. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to probe tips and more specifically probe tips used in atomic force microscopy and the like.

Atomic Force Microscopes AFM are used to measure surface characteristics of materials at the nano scale. AFM s are useful in measuring thin and thick film coatings ceramics composites glasses synthetic and biological membranes metals polymers and semiconductors among other things. By using an AFM one can not only image the surface with near atomic resolution but can also measure the forces of the surface of a sample at the nano Newton scale.

An AFM typically includes a probe with a probe tip extending therefrom. One type of probe is a cantilever another is a force sensing integrated readout and active tip FIRAT probe. A cantilever includes a beam with a probe tip at a distal end. The beam may be angularly deflected to move the probe tip toward the object being measured. When the probe tip begins to interact with the object the deflection of the beam can be measured by sensing light from a laser reflected off of the beam. A FIRAT probe includes a membrane that is supported by a frame. A FIRAT probe tip is typically affixed to the center of the membrane. The membrane may be displaced vertically by one of several methods. In one such method the membrane has a first conductive surface that is spaced apart from a second conductive surface. When a similar charge is applied to both the first conductive surface and the second conductive surface the two surfaces repel each other thereby forcing the membrane and the probe tip away from the second conductive surface. The vertical displacement of the probe tip is controlled in this way. The vertical displacement of the membrane is detected by reflecting light from a laser off of the membrane and passing the reflected light through a diffraction grating and then measuring the intensity of one or more modes of the diffracted light using a photodetector.

Probe tips should be hard relative to the object being measured and should have a high aspect ratio. Aspect ratio is the ratio of the longest dimension of a probe tip to its widest dimension. Thus something with a high aspect ration is long and thin. Also once mounted a probe tip should be substantially normal to the probe surface.

With current AFM probe designs forming and mounting the probe tip is a relatively costly process. Typical methods of making probe tips including cleaving hard crystals to form sharp shards and then gluing the shards to a probe surface. Such methods are complicated and time consuming. Also getting the probe tip to be normal to the probe surface can be difficult.

Therefore there is a need for method of making a self aligned probe tip that is always substantially normal to the probe surface.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a probe that includes a substrate and a tetragonal structure disposed on the substrate. The tetragonal structure has four end points with three of the end points disposed adjacent to the substrate. A fourth of the end points extends outwardly and substantially normal to the substrate.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making a probe tip in which a plurality of tetrapods are grown. At least one of the tetrapods is placed on a substrate at a selected location. The tetrapod is affixed to the substrate at the selected location.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of making a probe that includes a substrate. A nano wire is grown from a selected surface of a substrate thereby forming a probe tip. The substrate is affixed to a probe structure thereby making the probe.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in one illustrative embodiment of the invention includes a probe that has a substrate and a tetragonal structure on the substrate. The probes shown in are cantilever type probes that have beam type substrates . The probes shown in are membrane type probes such as FIRAT Force sensing Integrated Readout and Active Tip probes. A membrane type probe includes a housing that defines a cavity therein. A membrane substrate is supported by the housing . Displacement of the substrate is measured optically by reflecting a light beam off of the substrate . FIRAT probes are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 260 238 filed on Oct. 28 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The tetragonal structures shown in are tetrapods . A tetrapod is a three dimensional geometric shape that contains four extremities feet legs or leg like appendages that which extend from a central location. The tetragonal structures shown in are tetrahedrons . A tetrahedron triangular pyramid is a polyhedron that has four faces four vertices and six edges. The tetragonal structures used in this embodiment have four end points three of which are disposed adjacent to the substrate or and the fourth end point extends outwardly and is substantially normal to the substrate.

In one embodiment shown in tetrapods are grown in a reaction chamber such as a tube furnace . To grow tetrapods a precursor is placed in a crucible in the tube furnace and a substrate such as an aluminum substrate is placed downstream from the precursor . The precursor and the resulting tetrapod could be made of a metal oxide such as zinc oxide. It could also be made from other crystalline substances such as cadmium telluride. It is understood that any tetrapod of appropriate size falls within the scope of the present invention.

The tube furnace is heated to a preselected temperature for a preselected period of time. The precursor evaporates and is subsequently deposited on the substrate . The crystal form of the structure that grows on the substrate may be controlled by controlling the temperature and pressure inside the tube furnace .

In one experimental example of growing tetrapods ZnO tetrapod nanostructures were synthesized by thermal evaporation of 99.9 pure zinc powders under controlled conditions without the presence of catalyst. Zinc powder was placed in an alumina crucible that was inserted in a horizontal tube furnace where the temperature pressure and evaporation time were controlled. The temperature of the furnace was ramped to 850 950 C. at a rate of 50 C. min. and kept at that temperature for 1 30 minutes. T ZnO nanostructures were obtained in the reaction vessel. It should be understood that these parameters are given as one example only and that many other permutations are possible that will generate suitable structures. It is intended that all such permutations will fall within the scope of the claims below.

As shown in the tetrapods can be suspended in a liquid such as water alcohol acetone or any other substantially non reactive liquid that is capable of suspending the tetrapods . The liquid is placed on a substrate and the tetrapods are allowed to settle onto the substrate . The liquid is allowed to evaporate from the substrate and the tetrapods naturally settle with three of the endpoints resting on the substrate . A selected one of the tetrapods can be moved to a selected location such as the center of the substrate using an atomic force microscope or by using one of several other types of known microscopy and manipulation techniques . The selected tetrapod is then attached to the substrate by applying a precursor such as platinum and a focused ion beam such as a gallium ion beam or an electron beam to an area adjacent the endpoints of the selected tetrapod thereby forming a focused beam assisted bond. While this is occurring the substrate is rotated thereby bonding each of the endpoints to the substrate . This method of bonding has the advantage of operating at a relatively low temperature thereby not harming other components of the probe. In one embodiment the substrate is a membrane of an already existing probe in another embodiment the substrate is attached to the probe after the tetrapod is attached to the substrate . While the bond shown is platinum it could include one of several materials such as metals semiconductors oxides and polymers. Materials used could include platinum tungsten quartz and carbon.

One manner of facilitating placement of the tetrapod in the center or other desired location of a substrate is shown in . Initially a pattern corresponding to a vertical projection of the tetrapod is placed on the substrate at the preselected location. The pattern comprises a substance that is attractive to the tetrapod such as an amphiphile e.g. thiol and may be printed onto the substrate using well known micro scale marking techniques. As the tetrapod is brought near the projection it is attracted to the projection and eventually settles on the projection as shown in with the desired orientation.

A micrograph of a tetrapod resting on a substrate is shown in . A micrograph of a tetrapod affixed to a substrate is shown in . This micrograph shows three base legs of the tetrapod with an outer layer of platinum and an inner layer of platinum acting as a bond and holding the legs to the substrate . In this manner a probe leg extends outwardly from and substantially normal to the substrate .

A common characteristic of tetragonal structures is that when they are placed onto any smooth flat or curved solid surface three of the four extremities will contact the substrate surface while the fourth will be free and orthogonal to the surface. This provides the advantage of creating a self aligned probe tip.

In an alternate embodiment of the invention a nano wire probe tip may be grown onto a substrate. In one illustrative embodiment of a method for growing a nano wire at a selected position shown in a porous anodized aluminum oxide membrane is formed on a substrate so that the channels extend vertically from the substrate . All of the channels except for preselected channels are covered with a mask material as shown in . A nano wire is grown from the substrate in the exposed channel using a process such as electro deposition as shown in . The anodized aluminum oxide membrane and the mask material are removed by etching leaving the nano wire as shown in . The substrate can be part of a probe surface such as the membrane type probe shown in . Such a probe typically includes a reflective surface on the substrate membrane disposed oppositely from the probe tip . A light source such as a semiconductor laser directs a beam of light at the reflective surface which reflects the beam through a diffraction grating to a photodetector . The intensity of the detected light indicates the position and thus displacement of the membrane .

Porous anodic aluminum oxide AAO membranes can have channel diameters as small as a few nanometers with short channel to channel distances that can be controlled easily by varying the anodizing conditions. Highly ordered straight nanopores or channels in hexagonally close packed arrays can be fabricated with very high aspect ratios. AAO membranes can be made directly on aluminum substrates. They may also be fabricated on substrates other than aluminum by first removing the aluminum backing and attaching them to other materials during an additional processing step.

In another method of growing a probe tip as shown in a catalyst particle is placed on a substrate . A deposition process is used to grow a nano wire . One of several processes my be used examples of such processes include thermal evaporation metal organic chemical vapor deposition pulsed laser deposition chemical vapor transport and aqueous solution method. The nano wire shown in is grown by homoepitaxy in which nano wire is in crystal continuity with the substrate . In this case a single crystal is grown through solution phase or gas phase synthesis. As shown in heteroepitaxy may also be employed wherein the nano wire is crystallographically distinct from the substrate . As shown in seeded epitaxy may be employed to grow the nano wire . In this type of process a mask is placed on the substrate so that an opening defined through the mask exposes a selected portion of the substrate . A seed material which could include the same material as the material from which the nano wire is to be grown or a catalyst is applied to the mask layer and the opening . The mask material is removed e.g. by etching leaving a seed material nucleus . A nano wire is then grown from the nucleus using generally known nano scale chemical deposition methods. Discussions of nano wire and nano rod growth may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 863 943 and 6 940 086 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 010 178 filed Dec. 10 2004 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Gas phase and solution phase syntheses are two methodologies that which produce vertically aligned structures. Current examples of gas phase syntheses techniques are thermal evaporation metal organic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD pulsed laser deposition PLD and chemical vapor transport CVT while the primary example for solution phase synthesis is the aqueous solution method ASM . A key requirement for the vertical alignment of such structures regardless of the methodology and subsequent technique used is the nucleation and growth of the structures onto an epitaxial layer.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

