---

title: Method and apparatus for retrieving data from one or more wireless communication devices
abstract: A system, method, and apparatus that retrieve data from one or more wireless communication devices that are at least members of a communication group without user intervention are disclosed. In one embodiment, a request for data is sent to an intermediate device, which forwards the request to a target wireless device. The target wireless device determines if the request is allowed and preferably responds with the requested data or a failure notice. The location of the requested data may be known to the requesting device and included in the request, or it may be known to the target wireless device, which locates the data upon receiving the request. In another embodiment the requesting device and the target wireless device directly communicate without the intervention of an intermediate device. The data requested can help the requesting device or its user determine if and when to initiate group communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07991418&OS=07991418&RS=07991418
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07991418
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080428
---
The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to a method system and apparatus for retrieving well known or arbitrary data from one or more wireless devices that are members of a communication group such as push to talk PTT communication group.

In cellular wireless telecommunications there have been several standards implemented regarding the creation and functionality of the communication infrastructure such as EVDO GSM UMTS and AMPS. One of the more recent standards is CDMA2000 where CDMA is an abbreviation for code division multiple access. CDMA2000 supports a Broadcast Multicast Service BCMCS which allows optimization of the radio interface for delivery of BCMCS content stream s to one or more wireless communication devices in one or more regions of an cellular carrier s network. The CDMA2000 protocol allows for both voice and data to be transmitted to and from wireless communication devices and determines the appropriate resource allocation for communications both to and from the wireless telecommunication device and the radio access network RAN and in between communication control devices such as base stations packet data serving nodes PDSN and broadcast serving nodes BSN .

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker had engaged the PTT button at his or her device. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

PTT currently offers the ability to unilaterally send information and data to other members of a PTT group. To retrieve information however a request is sent to a device member of the PTT group the target device and the user of the target device must then take some action to respond with the requested information. This process is often accomplished by exchanging text messages. This requires an extra step by the user of the target device which in turn lengthens the response time and delay for the requesting member. Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a method system and apparatus that allows the retrieval of information from a device that is a member of a PTT group without intervention on behalf of the target user Such a method and apparatus would allow the quick retrieval of information from members of a PTT group that would facilitate setting up and maintaining group communications. It is thus to the provision of such a method system and apparatus for retrieving well known or arbitrary data from one or more wireless devices that are members of a communication group that the present invention is primarily directed.

The present invention includes a system method and apparatus for retrieving data from a wireless device that is a member of a communication group. In one embodiment a requesting wireless device transmits a data retrieval request to a target wireless device. The target wireless device then responds with the requested data. The target wireless device may have data retrieval restrictions which it uses to evaluate the data retrieval request. If the request is not allowed under the data retrieval restrictions the target wireless device transmits a failure notice to the requesting wireless device. If the request is allowed the target wireless device transmits the requested data to the requesting wireless device. The data retrieval request may specify the location type or other information about the data requested or the target device may locate the data upon receiving the request. Likewise the requesting wireless device can send its data that corresponds to the data requested from the target wireless device.

In another embodiment there is an intermediate device which facilitates communication between the requesting wireless device and the target wireless device. The intermediate device may receive the data retrieval request from the requesting wireless device perform actions required to locate the target wireless device and place the request in a form that ensures successful delivery of the request and then transmit the data retrieval request to the target wireless device. The intermediate device may also perform a check against data retrieval restrictions and if the request is not allowed under the data retrieval restrictions the intermediate device may transmit a failure notice to the requesting wireless device. If the request is allowed the target wireless device may then respond to the request either with the requested data or with a failure notice transmitting the response to the intermediate device. The intermediate device may then transmit the response to the requesting wireless device performing further actions such as locating the requesting wireless device and placing the response in a form that ensures successful delivery of the response as desired or necessary.

In another embodiment all the actions performed by the target wireless device are performed without the intervention of the target wireless device user. In yet another embodiment the data requested by the requesting wireless device may not be present on the target wireless device but the target wireless device may have means to obtain the data. In this embodiment the target wireless device upon receipt of the data retrieval request locates and acquires the requested data from another computing device external to the target wireless device and responds with the acquired data.

The present system method and apparatus are therefore advantageous in that they allow the retrieval of information from a target wireless device that is a member of a communication group without intervention by the user of the target wireless device. This facilitates the coordination of group communications and allows the status of group communication members to be obtained without requiring extra steps or activities by the members. Thus the present system method and apparatus can save time for members of group communications and increase the efficiency of such communications.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

Furthermore the system is shown in several embodiments here as operating in a CDMA2000 network architecture. Reference can be had to the known standards and construction of CDMA2000 systems and network interfaces as would be known to one of skill in the art. Other standards can likewise be configured to implement the system and method shown herein.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of a system with a group communication server and one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a communication group such as wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA that communicate with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as group communication server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share the information with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally is not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system selectively communicates to a wireless communication device for a group communication across the wireless communication network with the group communication server configured to receive a request to establish a group communication with at least one target wireless communication device e.g. mobile telephone and the group communication server sends a request to at least one target wireless communication device across the wireless communication network indicating an incoming group communication.

The group communication can be voice data applications graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like or audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be video or streaming media such as a multimedia application PowerPoint MOV file and the like . Also the group communication is typically half duplex audio conferencing among members of the communication group .

The group communication server is connected to a wireless service providers packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN and or a broadcast serving node shown here resident as on a carrier network . Each PSDN or BSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the base transceiver station sometimes referred to as branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such group direct communications may occur through or be at the control of the group communication server . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device may be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform such as a laptop or desktop that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device typically for the half duplex voice communication in a PTT call. The direct communication interface may also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

While illustrates a single requesting wireless device and a single target wireless device it should be appreciated that a data retrieval request may be sent from a requesting wireless device to multiple target wireless devices. The request may include the addresses of multiple individual wireless devices or it may include a single or multiple communication group identifiers which correspond to several wireless devices. A duplication of the request containing communication group identifiers may be made by an intermediate device such as group communication server where each duplicate request has an individual target wireless device address in place of communication group identifiers. Other means and methods of transmitting a request to multiple target wireless devices including using multicast are known to those skilled in the art and contemplated as within the scope of the present subject matter.

In this embodiment requesting wireless device generates a request requesting data from target wireless device . The requested data may be of any type available on or via the target wireless device including global positioning system GPS coordinates use status of the target device currently in use for a voice call Internet access text messaging etc. and device status device is set to be on silent mode device has messaging or PTT disabled etc. It is contemplated that data on target wireless device may be useful in group communications and by obtaining such data from target wireless devices without target device user intervention a user or requesting device may be able to determine the optimal times and most appropriate usage for group communications. For example by using acquired data a communication group member can determine before initiating a group communication transmission whether the relevant members of the group are available and able to receive the communication. The acquired data may also selectively permit the group communication to proceed. For example if the data acquired indicates that a group member is not available the transmission of group communication may be disabled on requesting wireless device until the member is available. Alternatively the group communication may be permitted but receipt of the communication by the unavailable member will be disabled until the member is again available.

It is also contemplated that request may request data that is not contained within target wireless device which may result in target wireless device communicating with another device to obtain the requested data. For example target wireless device may have Internet access capabilities that are not available on requesting wireless device . Request may include a request for data available on the Internet. Therefore in order to obtain such data requesting wireless device sends request to target wireless device which in turn obtains the requested data from the Internet and responds to requesting wireless device with the data.

Request may include the target wireless device address the requested data type or an application identifier identifying the application on target wireless device that can locate the requested data. The request may include any other information necessary to locate the requested data on target wireless device or target wireless device may be responsible for locating the data. Alternatively request may not specify the application and target wireless device may be able to determine which application can access the requested data. In another alternative request may contain the addresses of several devices which may be devices in a communications group. In yet another alternative request may contain a communication group identifier which will result in the request being forwarded to all devices associated with the identified communication group such as communication group described herein in reference to . Various other data and contents of the request are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure including any data or information that may assist or direct target wireless device or group communication server in locating the requested data.

Request is transmitted first to wireless network where it may then be delivered to group communication server . Group communication server then performs any manipulation or alteration of request required or desired for successful implementation of the present subject matter discussed herein with reference to and transmits the possibly modified request in the form of request to target wireless device over wireless network . Target wireless device receives request evaluates the message and locates the requested data discussed herein with reference to and transmits response to group communication server over wireless network . This may be performed entirely by the device without intervention by the device s user. Upon receiving response group communication server performs any manipulation or alteration of response required or desired discussed in more detail herein with reference to and transmits the possibly modified response in the form of response to target wireless device over wireless network . Requesting wireless device then receives response completing the process.

As technology advances and wireless devices become more powerful and capable the intervention of intermediate servers to facilitate group communications may not be necessary. Referring again to where dashed lines represent direct communications between wireless devices over wireless network the present subject matter may be implemented such that an intermediate server such as group communication server is not required. Request may be received by target wireless device directly from requesting wireless device over wireless network without the intervention of group communication server . The request may be evaluated as described herein and response which may be a failure notice or may include the requested data is automatically generated. The term automatically as used herein is specifically intended to encompass functions and functionality that does not require and user action or intervention to allow the function. Response may then be sent directly to requesting wireless device from target wireless device over wireless network without the intervention of group communication server .

If at block the intermediate device receiving the request determines that the request is allowed then at block the intermediate device may evaluate the request and determine which devices are the intended recipients. Once the intended recipients are determined the intermediate device may then locate the target devices using wireless network technologies known to those skilled in the art. The intermediate device may also modify the request or create a new request before transmitting the request to the intended recipients. The requests may be essentially identical to the request received from a requesting device or they may be altered as necessary or desired. For example referring again to if request from requesting wireless device contains only a communication group identifier and no individual device addresses group communication server may alter the request to include individual device addresses. Alternatively the intermediate device may generate a new request for each target device containing the relevant contents of the data request from the received request along with the individual address of target devices. Other modifications of received requests are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

Once a target device is located the intermediate device may transmit the request to the target device over a wireless network at block . The transmitted request contains the request for data included in the request received at block modified as necessary at block to successfully be received by the target device. The target device will then evaluate the request and respond which will be described in more detail herein with reference to . At block the intermediate device receives the response from the target device.

At block the response received at block is modified as necessary to enable the relevant data within the response to be transmitted successfully to the requesting device. Like the initially received request such modifications may include address translation or determination as well as any other necessary or desired modifications that may help ensure the successful implementation of the present subject matter. Alternatively a new and distinct response may be created which includes the relevant response data from the response received at block . If necessary the requesting device is also located. Following any modification of the response or creation of a new response and locating the requesting device the response is transmitted to the requesting device at block . The process is then complete at block .

The target device determines if a received request is allowed at block and if not the target device transmits a failure notice to the requesting device. This may be accomplished automatically without intervention by the device user. The failure notice may be transmitted to an intermediate device such as group communication server for relaying to the requesting device or it may be transmitted directly to the requesting device without the intervention of an intermediate device. If a failure notice is transmitted the process is complete at block .

If at block the target device determines that the request is allowed then at block the target device locates the requested data possibly using the contents of the request to aid in data location as discussed herein with reference to request in and constructs a response with the requested data included. At block the target device transmits the response to the requesting device either transmitting the response to an intermediate device for relaying to the requesting device or transmitting the response directly to the requesting device. Both the locating of the requested data and the transmission of the response may be accomplished automatically without intervention by the target device user. The process is then complete at block .

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

