---

title: Providing supplier relationship management software application as enterprise services
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including systems and computer program products, for a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having supplier relationship management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations, process components, and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401928&OS=08401928&RS=08401928
owner: SAP AG
number: 08401928
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20080918
---
This specification relates to data processing systems implemented on computers and more particular to data processing systems providing services in the nature of web services.

Enterprise software systems are generally large and complex. Such systems can require many different components distributed across many different hardware platforms possibly in several different geographical locations. Thus the architecture of a large software application i.e. what its components are and how they fit together is an important aspect of its design for a successful implementation.

Web services are one technology for making the functionality of software applications available to other software including other applications. A web service is a standards based way of encapsulating the functionality of an application that other applications can locate and access. A service oriented architecture is a distributed software model within which functionality is defined as independent web services. Within a service oriented architecture web services can be used in defined sequences according to business logic to form applications that enable business processes.

This specification describes a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having supplier relationship management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. Enterprise services are web services that have an enterprise level business value.

In its various aspects the invention can be embodied in systems methods and computer program products. For example a system in one embodiment implements a services architecture design that provides enterprise services having supplier relationship management functionality at the level of an enterprise application. The design includes a set of service operations process components and optionally deployment units. Suitable business objects are also described.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Effective use is made of process components as units of software reuse to provide a design that can be implemented reliably in a cost effective way. Effective use is made of deployment units each of which is deployable on a separate computer hardware platform independent of every other deployment unit to provide a scalable design. Service interfaces of the process components define a pair wise interaction between pairs of process components that are in different deployment units in a scalable way.

Details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and in the description below. Further features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The elements of the architecture include the business object the process component the service operation or simply the operation the service interface the message and the deployment unit. The elements can also include process agents and reuse service components. These will be generally described below.

In some implementations the software is implemented to be deployed on an application platform that includes a foundation layer that contains all fundamental entities that can used from multiple deployment units. These entities can be process components business objects or reuse service components. A reuse service component is a piece of software that is reused in different transactions. A reuse service component is used by its defined interfaces which can be e.g. local APIs Application Programming Interfaces or service interfaces.

The architectural design is a specification of a computer software application and elements of the architectural design can be implemented to realize a software application that implements enterprise application service interfaces. The elements of the architecture are at times described in this specification as being contained or included in other elements for example a process component is described as being contained in a deployment unit. It should be understood however that such operational inclusion can be realized in a variety of ways and is not limited to a physical inclusion of the entirety of one element in another.

The architectural elements include the business object. A business object is a representation of a type of a uniquely identifiable business entity an object instance described by a structural model. Processes operate on business objects.

A business object represents a specific view on some well defined business content. A business object represents content and instances of business objects include content which a typical business user would expect and understand with little explanation. Whether an object as a type or an instance of an object is intended by the term object is generally clear from the context so the distinction will be made explicitly only when necessary. Also for convenience and brevity an object instance may be described in this specification as being or including a real world event activity item or the like however such description should be understood as stating that the object instance represents i.e. contains data representing the respective event activity item or the like. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

Business objects are further categorized as business process objects and master data objects mass data run objects dependent objects and transformed objects. A master data object is an object that encapsulates master data i.e. data that is valid for a period of time . A business process object which is the kind of business object generally found in a process component is an object that encapsulates transactional data i.e. data that is valid for a point in time . A mass data run object is an application object that executes an algorithm for a particular mass data run. An instance of a mass data run object embodies or contains a particular set of selections and parameters. A mass data run object implements an algorithm that modifies manages and or processes a large amount of data in multiple transactions possibly but not necessarily with parallel processing. A dependent object is a business object used as a reuse part in another business object. A dependent object represents a concept that cannot stand by itself from a business point of view. Instances of dependent objects only occur in the context of a non dependent business object. A transformed object is a transformation of multiple business objects for a well defined purpose. It transforms the structure of multiple business objects into a common structure. A transformed object does not have its own persistency. The term business object will be used generically to refer to a business process object and a master data object unless the context requires otherwise. Properly implemented business objects are implemented free of redundancies.

The architectural elements also include the process component. A process component is a software package that realizes a business process and generally exposes its functionality as services. The functionality includes the ability to perform all or parts of particular kinds of business transactions. A process component contains one or more semantically related business objects. Any business object belongs to no more than one process component.

Process components are modular and context independent. That they are context independent means that a process component is not specific to any specific application and is reusable. The process component is the smallest most granular element of reuse in the architecture.

The architectural elements also include the operation. An operation belongs to exactly one process component. A process component generally has multiple operations. Operations can be synchronous or asynchronous corresponding to synchronous or asynchronous process agents which will be described below. An operation is the smallest separately callable function described by a set of data types used as input output and fault parameters or some combination of them serving as a signature. For convenience in supporting use of the operations supported by a system implementing elements of the design such a system can optionally include a repository of service descriptions that includes a standards based description of each of the supported service operations.

The architectural elements also include optionally the service interface which may be referred to simply as an interface. An interface is a named group of operations. Each operation belongs to exactly one interface. An interface belongs to exactly one process component. A process component might implement multiple interfaces. In some implementations an interface will have only inbound or outbound operations but not a mixture of both. One interface can include both synchronous and asynchronous operations. All operations of the same type either inbound or outbound which belong to the same message choreography will preferably belong to the same interface. Thus generally all outbound operations to the same other process component are in one interface.

The architectural elements also include the message. Operations transmit and receive messages. Any convenient messaging infrastructure can be used. A message is information conveyed from one process component instance to another with the expectation that activity will ensue. An operation can use multiple message types for inbound outbound or error messages. When two process components are in different deployment units invocation of an operation of one process component by the other process component is accomplished by an operation on the other process component sending a message to the first process component.

The architectural elements also include the process agent. Process agents do business processing that involves the sending or receiving of messages. Each operation will generally have at least one associated process agent. A process agent can be associated with one or more operations. Process agents can be either inbound or outbound and either synchronous or asynchronous.

Asynchronous outbound process agents are called after a business object changes e.g. after a create update or delete of a business object instance.

An outbound process agent will generally perform some processing of the data of the business object instance whose change triggered the agent or caused the agent to be called. An outbound agent triggers subsequent business process steps by sending messages using well defined outbound services to another process component which generally will be in another deployment unit or to an external system. An outbound process agent is linked to the one business object that triggers the agent but it is sent not to another business object but rather to another process component. Thus the outbound process agent can be implemented without knowledge of the exact business object design of the recipient process component.

Inbound process agents are called after a message has been received. Inbound process agents are used for the inbound part of a message based communication. An inbound process agent starts the execution of the business process step requested in a message by creating or updating one or multiple business object instances. An inbound process agent is not the agent of a business object but of its process component. An inbound process agent can act on multiple business objects in a process component.

Synchronous agents are used when a process component requires a more or less immediate response from another process component and is waiting for that response to continue its work.

Operations and process components are described in this specification in terms of process agents. However in alternative implementations process components and operations can be implemented without use of agents using other conventional techniques to perform the functions described in this specification.

The architectural elements also include the deployment unit. A deployment unit includes one or more process components and optionally one or more business objects that are deployed together on a single computer system platform. Conversely separate deployment units can be deployed on separate physical computing systems. For this reason a deployment unit boundary defines the limits of an application defined transaction i.e. a set of actions that have the ACID properties of atomicity consistency isolation and durability. To make use of database manager facilities the architecture requires that all operations of such a transaction be performed on one physical database as a consequence the processes of such a transaction must be performed by the process components of one instance of one deployment unit.

The process components of one deployment unit interact with those of another deployment unit using messages passed through one or more data communication networks or other suitable communication channels. Thus a deployment unit deployed on a platform belonging to one business can interact with a deployment unit software entity deployed on a separate platform belonging to a different and unrelated business allowing for business to business communication. More than one instance of a given deployment unit can execute at the same time on the same computing system or on separate physical computing systems. This arrangement allows the functionality offered by a deployment unit to be scaled to meet demand by creating as many instances as needed.

Since interaction between deployment units is through service operations a deployment unit can be replaced by other another deployment unit as long as the new deployment unit supports the operations depended upon by other deployment units. Thus while deployment units can depend on the external interfaces of process components in other deployment units deployment units are not dependent on process component interactions i.e. interactions between process components involving their respective business objects operations interfaces and messages within other deployment units. Similarly process components that interact with other process components or external systems only through messages e.g. as sent and received by operations can also be replaced as long as the replacement supports the operations of the original.

Interactions between process components that occur only within a deployment unit are not constrained to using service operations. These can be implemented in any convenient fashion.

In contrast to a deployment unit the foundation layer does not define a limit for application defined transactions. Deployment units communicate directly with entities in the foundation layer which communication is typically not message based. The foundation layer is active in every system instance on which the application is deployed. Business objects in the foundation layer will generally be master data objects. In addition the foundation layer will include some business process objects that are used by multiple deployment units. Master data objects and business process objects that should be specific to a deployment unit are preferably assigned to their respective deployment unit.

As shown in a Purchasing deployment unit includes a Purchase Order Processing process component a Purchase Request Processing process component a Purchasing Contract Processing process component and a Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component .

The Purchase Order Processing process component handles the creation and maintenance of purchase orders and purchase order confirmations. The Purchase Order Processing process component includes a Purchase Order business object and a Purchase Order Confirmation business object .

The Purchase Request Processing process component handles the creation changing and processing of purchase requests to locate appropriate external sources of supply. The Purchase Request Processing process component includes a Purchase Order Creation Run business object and a Purchase Request business object .

The Purchasing Contract Processing process component handles the creation and maintenance of purchasing contracts. The Purchasing Contract Processing process component includes a Purchasing Contract business object .

The Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component handles a confirmation by an employee of goods received or services rendered. The Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component includes a Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object .

As shown in a Supplier Invoicing deployment unit includes a Supplier Invoice Processing process component that handles the management and volume processing of supplier invoices including exception handling and approval. The Supplier Invoice Processing process component includes a Supplier Invoice Request business object an Evaluated Receipt Settlement Run business object a Supplier Invoice business object and a Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object .

As shown in a Requisitioning deployment unit includes an Internal Request Processing process component that handles the management and processing of internal requests from employees. The Internal Request Processing process component includes an Internal Request business object .

The RFQ Processing process component can send a message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . The message can be received in a Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation . The operation creates a purchase order from an accepted supplier quote. The operation is included in a Quote Award Notification In interface . The Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Purchase Order business object represents a request from a request from a buyer to a seller to deliver a specified quantity of material or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The RFQ Processing process component can send a message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . The can be received in a Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation . The operation can create a purchase order based on the data contained in a winning supplier quote. If the supplier quote refers to a purchase request data from the purchase request items can be added by the operation to complete the purchase order. The notification can be sent using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Create Purchase Order based on Winning Quote operation is included in a Quote Award Notification interface .

An External Procurement Trigger and Response process component can send a message to the Purchase Order processing component . The message can be received in a Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values operation . The operation can change a purchase order based on a delivery value by adding the quantity of a confirmed inbound delivery to the cumulated delivered quantity in node Item Actual Values of a purchase order. The operation can also add the reference to a the confirmed inbound delivery document to the purchase order. The notification can be sent using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The Change Purchase Order based on Delivery Values operation is included in a Fulfillment In interface .

A Supplier Invoice Processing process component can send a message to the Purchase Order processing component . The message can be received in a Change Purchase Order based on Invoiced Values operation . The operation can change purchase order based on invoice values by adding the quantity and amount of a supplier invoice to the cumulated invoiced quantity and amount in node Item Actual Values of a purchase order. The operation also adds the reference to the supplier invoice document to the purchase order. The notification can be sent using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The operation is included in Invoice Verification In interface .

An Inbound Delivery Processing third party process component can send a message to the Purchase Order processing component . The message can be received in a Change Purchase Order based on Inbound Delivery Request . The operation can create a purchase order based on migrated data. The notification can be sent using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order business object . The operation is included in Purchase Order Inbound Delivery In .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The Purchase Order business object can receive updated information and can send the updated information into other components to perform further operations. The Purchase Order business object is a request from a purchaser to an external supplier to deliver a specified quantity of goods or services at a specified price within a specified time period. As shown in multiple asynchronous outbound process agents can receive information from the Purchase Order business object .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation notifies the Supplier Invoice Processing process component about an invoice due and when a Purchase Order has been created changed or cancelled. The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Expected Delivery operation . The Notify of Expected Delivery operation notifies of an expected delivery. The request can be sent to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Notify of Expected Delivery operation is included in a Purchase Order Inbound Delivery Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Purchase Order Change operation . The operation requests a change of a purchase order that was formerly ordered at the supplier. The request can be sent to the Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component . The asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke a Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation . The Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation requests a cancellation of the purchase order that was formerly ordered at the supplier. The request can be sent to the Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component . The asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke a Request Purchase Order Creation operation . The Request Purchase Order Creation operation requests a purchase order from the supplier. The request can be sent to the Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component . The Request Purchase Order Change operation the Request Purchase Order Cancellation operation and the Request Purchase Order Creation operation are included in an Ordering Out interface .

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

As shown in an asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The Notify of Purchase Order operation is a notification about created changed or cancelled purchase orders. The asynchronous outbound process agents can send a notification of the purchase order to the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component . The Notify of Purchase Order operation is included in an Ordering Notification Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke the Notify of Purchase Order operation . The asynchronous outbound process agent can send the notification about the purchase order to the Project Processing process component .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke the Notify of Purchase Order operation . The asynchronous outbound process agent can send the notification about the purchase order to the Internal Request Processing process component .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The operation notifies about created changed or cancelled purchase orders. The operation is included in a Sales and Purchasing Accounting Out interface . The asynchronous outbound process agent can send the notification about the purchase order to the Accounting process component .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Purchase Order operation . The asynchronous outbound process agent can send a notification about the purchase order that has been created changed or canceled to the Time and Labor Management process component . The Notify of Purchase Order operation is included in an Employee Time Confirmation View or Service Transaction Document Management Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Supplier Invoice Request operation . The operation can request supplier invoice request migration based on the migrated purchase order data and or purchase order delivery values. The operation is included in a Supplier Invoice Request Migration Out interface . The asynchronous outbound process agent can send the notification about the purchase order to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

A Sales Order Processing at Supplier operation can send a message to the Purchase Order Processing process component . The message can be received in a Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation . The operation is included in an Ordering In interface . The Create Purchase Order Confirmation operation creates a purchase order confirmation according to the confirmation partial confirmation or proposed changes sent from the seller to the buyer concerning the requested delivery of product to trigger the creation of a purchase order confirmation. The operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Order Confirmation business object . The Purchase Order Confirmation business object represents a confirmation from a seller to deliver a specified quantity of goods or perform a specified service at a specified price within a specified time.

The Sales Order Processing at Supplier process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The RFQ Processing process component can send a message to the Purchase Request Processing process component . The message can be received in a Change Purchase Request operation . The operation can change purchase request based on request for quote execution. The operation is included in a Request for Quote In interface . The Change Purchase Request operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Request business object . The purchase request business object represents a request or instruction to the purchasing department to purchase specified goods or services in specified quantities at a specified price within a specified time.

The Internal Request Processing process component the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component or the Project Processing process component can send a request message to the Maintain Purchase Request process component . A Maintain Purchase Request operation can create or update a request from a requester to a purchaser to externally procure materials and or services i.e. create or update a purchase request. The operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchase Request business object . The Maintain Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing In interface .

As shown in multiple outbound process agents can receive information from the Purchase Request business object . For example a request from outbound agent can receive updated information from the Purchase Request business object and invoke a Request Request for Quote Execution operation . The outbound process agent can invoke the operation to update the RFQ Processing process component . The Request Request for Quote Execution operation is included in a Request for Quote Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can receive updated information from the Purchase Request business object and invoke a Confirm Purchase Request operation . The Confirm Purchase Request operation confirms the creation change or cancellation of a purchase request to the requester. The asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke the operation to update the Internal Request Processing process component the External Procurement Trigger and Response process component or the Project Processing process component . The Confirm Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing Notification Out interface .

As shown in the RFQ Processing process component can send a message to the Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The message can be received in a Maintain Purchasing Contract operation . The operation can create or update a purchasing contract. The operation is included in a Purchasing Contract In interface . The Maintain Purchasing Contract operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchasing Contract business object . The Purchasing Contract business object represents a legally binding purchase agreement that contains special conditions that are negotiated between a buyer and a seller covering goods to be supplied or services to be performed. It is valid for a specific period during which goods and services are released against the contract.

A Change Purchasing Contract based on RFQ Execution operation can also receive a message from the RFQ Processing process component . The operation can confirm the creation of an RFQ and maintain the reference of the newly created request for quote in the purchasing contract. The operation is included in a Request for Quote In interface . The Change Purchasing Contract based on RFQ Execution operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchasing Contract business object .

The Data Migration System process component can send a message to the Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The message can be received in a Create Purchasing Contract operation . The operation creates a purchasing contract based on migrated data. The operation is included in the Migration In interface . The Create Purchasing Contract operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchasing Contract business object .

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component can send a message to the Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The message can be received in a Maintain Purchasing Contract Release operation . Also the Purchasing Scheduling Agreement process component can be received in the Maintain Purchasing Contract Release operation . The operation creates or updates releases in the purchasing contract. The operation is included in a Contract Release In interface . The Maintain Purchasing Contract Release operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Purchasing Contract business object .

The Purchasing Contract business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. As shown in multiple outbound process agents can receive information from the Purchasing Contract business object .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Purchase Schedule Agreement operation . The operation can notify if there is a purchase scheduling agreement. The asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke the operation to update the Purchase Scheduling Agreement process component . This process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system. The Notify of Purchase Schedule Agreement operation is included in a Purchase Schedule Agreement Replication Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Request for Quote Execution operation or a Request Request for Quote Cancellation operation . The Request Request for Quote Execution operation creates a request for quote request from a purchasing contract that is in the negotiation process or inform existing request for quote requests about a canceled negotiation process. The Request Request for Quote Cancellation operation requests the cancellation of a request for quote for a running purchasing contract negotiation process. For example the outbound process agent can invoke the operation to send a message to the RFQ Processing process component or the outbound process agent can invoke the operation to send a message to the RFQ Processing process component .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Product Catalog operation . The operation can notify if there is a product catalog. The asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke the operation to update the Product Catalog Authoring process component . This process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system. The Notify of Product Catalog operation is included in a Product Catalogue Authoring Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The operation creates a new supplier invoicing request or updates an existing supplier invoice request from a released purchasing contract. For example the outbound process agent can invoke the operation to send a message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Purchasing Contract operation . The operation can notify the supplier about a purchasing contract when it is released and is used in operational purchasing processes. For example the outbound process agent can invoke the operation in a Contracting Notification Out interface to send a message regarding the purchasing contract to a Sales Contract Processing at Supplier process component . This process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Project Task Assignment operation . The operation can notify of purchasing contract project task assignments. For example the outbound process agent can invoke the operation to send a message regarding a project task assignment to a Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Notify of Project Task Assignment operation is included in a Project Task Assignment Notification Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Confirm Purchasing Contract operation . The operation can confirm a purchasing contract creation and or update. For example the outbound process agent can invoke a Confirm Purchasing Contract operation to send a message regarding confirmation of a new creation of a purchasing contract to a Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Confirm Purchasing Contract operation is included in a Purchasing Contract Out interface .

A synchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Project Task Accountability Information operation . The operation can check the project task accountability. For example the synchronous outbound process agent can evoke a Request Project Task Accountability Information operation to send a message regarding the project task accountability information to a Project Processing process component . The Request Project Task Accountability Information operation is included in Project Task Accountability Out interface .

As shown in The Time and Labor Management process component can send a message to the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The message can be received in a Cancel Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation . The operation can cancel a goods and service acknowledgement based on time recording cancellation. The asynchronous inbound process agent can update the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object with the cancellation information. The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object represents a report about the receipt of goods and services.

The Internal Request Processing process component can send a message to the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The message can be received in a Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation . The operation creates a goods and service acknowledgement based on time recording or express confirmation in internal request processing. An update regarding the created acknowledgement can be sent to the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object using the asynchronous inbound process agent . The Cancel Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation and the Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation are included in an Internal Acknowledgement In interface . The Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object in some implementations represents a document that reports the receipt of goods and services.

The Goods and Service Confirmation at Supplier process component can send a message to the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component . The message can be received in a Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation . The operation can create a goods and service acknowledgement. A creation acknowledgement can be sent to the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object using the asynchronous inbound process agent . The Create Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation is included in an Acknowledgement In interface .

As shown in multiple outbound process agents can also receive information from the Goods and Service Acknowledgement business object .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Project Expense operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification on a project expense for items in a purchase order. The notification can be sent to the Customer Project Invoice Preparation processing component . This process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system. The Notify of Project Expense operation is included in a Project Expense Notification interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoicing Due operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification of an invoice due for goods and services in a purchase order. The notification can be sent to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The Notify of Invoicing Due operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation . The operation can notify a financial accounting about delivered goods and rendered services of a goods and service acknowledgement. The notification can be sent to the Accounting process component . The asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke a Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation . The operation can notify a financial accounting about goods and services acknowledgement cancellation. The notification can be sent to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation and the Notify of Goods and Service Acknowledgement Cancellation operation are included in a Goods and Service Accounting Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Confirm Goods and Service Acknowledgement operation . The operation can confirm a goods and services acknowledgement. The notification can be sent to the Goods and Service Confirmation at Supplier process component . This process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system. The Confirm Goods and Service Acknowledgement is included in a Acknowledgement Out interface .

A Maintain Invoice Request operation can send information using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object . The Supplier Invoice Request business object can be a request sent to invoice verification advising that a supplier invoice for specified quantities and prices is expected or is to be created through evaluation settlement. The operation can create or update a reference object in the Supplier Invoice Processing deployment unit in order to perform invoice verification with reference to a purchase order for example without having to access other deployment units. The reference object is used for checks against the preceding documents and to make proposals for invoice entry. The operation can send a request to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object if one or more messages are received from the Purchase Order Processing process component the Inbound Delivery Processing process component the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component or the Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The Maintain Invoice Request operation is included in an Invoice Verification In interface .

A Create Supplier Invoice Request operation can send information using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Request business object . The operation can create a supplier invoice request based on a migrated purchase order and or based on migrated actual values of the migrated purchase order. The Create Invoice operation is included in an Supplier Invoice Request Migration In interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoice Values operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification to the Purchase Order that at least parts of it have already been invoiced. The notification can be sent to the Purchase Order Processing process component . The Notify of Invoice Values operation is included in an Invoice Verification Out interface .

As shown in The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component can send a message to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component . The message can be received in an Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception operation . The Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception operation updates a supplier invoice verification exception based on the changes made by an external party. The operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object . The Update Supplier Invoice Verification Exception operation is included in an Exception Resolution In interface . The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object represents a group of related issues arising during a supplier invoice verification process. The issues causing the exception are bundled according to certain business criteria. A complex follow up clarification process is used to resolve the issues.

The Supplier Invoice Verification Exception business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. An asynchronous outbound process agent invokes a Request Exception Resolution operation . The Request Exception Resolution operation requests the clarification of a supplier invoice verification exception from an external party. The asynchronous outbound process agent can use the Request Exception Resolution operation to update the Supplier Invoice Verification Exception Resolution at Processor process component . The Request Exception Resolution operation is included in an Exception Resolution Out interface .

A Create Invoice operation can send information using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object . The operation can create supplier invoices from legally binding claims or liabilities for delivered goods and rendered services. The Create Invoice operation is included in an Internal Invoicing In interface .

The Internal Request Processing process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

A Create Invoice operation can send information using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object . The operation can create supplier invoices from legally binding claims or liabilities for delivered goods and rendered services. The Create Invoice operation is included in an Invoicing In interface .

A Create Invoice based on Attachment operation can send information using an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Invoice business object . The operation can send a supplier invoice request to update the Supplier Invoice business object if one or more messages is received from the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . The Create Invoice operation is included in an Image Recognition Invoicing In interface .

The Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The Supplier Invoice Request business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. The Supplier Invoice Request business object represents a recipient s usually the purchaser s obligation to pay the supplier for goods received or services rendered. As shown in at least one outbound process agent can receive information from the Supplier Invoice Request business object .

As shown in multiple outbound process agents can also receive information from the Supplier Invoice business object . An outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification to accounting about accounting relevant data from a previously posted supplier invoice that is cancelled. The notification can be sent to the Accounting process component . The asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification to accounting about accounting relevant data from a previously posted supplier invoice that is canceled. The notification can be sent to the Accounting process component . The Notify of Invoice operation and the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation are included in an Invoice Accounting Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification to the due item processing system about payments and taxes that are due based on a posted supplier invoice. The notification can be sent to the Due Item Processing process component . The asynchronous outbound process agent can also invoke a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The outbound process agent can send a notification to the due item processing system about a previously posted supplier invoice that is canceled. The notification can be sent to the Due Item Processing process component . The Notify of Invoice operation and the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation are included in a Receivables Payables Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify Billing Due operation . The notification can be sent to the Customer Invoice Processing process component . The Notify Billing Due operation is included in a Invoice Verification Out interface . An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Project Expense operation . The notification can be sent to the Customer Project Invoice Preparation process component . The Notify of Project Expense operation is included Project Expense Notification Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Confirm Invoice operation . The notification can be sent to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . The Confirm Invoice operation is included in an Invoicing Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request ERS Invoice operation . The outbound process agent can inform the seller party about a supplier invoice created by the buyer party using the credit memo procedure Evaluated Receipt Settlement . The notification can be sent to the Customer Invoice Processing at Supplier process component . The Request ERS Invoice operation is included in an ERS Invoicing Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Contract Release operation . The outbound process agent can notify the purchasing system about the posting of a supplier invoice that contains a reference to a purchasing contract. The notification can be sent to the Purchasing Contract Processing process component . The Notify of Contract Release operation is included in an Contract Release Out interface .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoice operation . The operation can notify the foreign payment processing system about a posted supplier invoice. The notification can be sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . Also the asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation . The notification can be sent to the Balance of Foreign Payment Management process component . The Notify of Invoice operation and the Notify of Invoice Cancellation operation are include in a Foreign Receivable Payable Notification interface .

As shown in the Purchase Request Processing process component can send a message to the Internal Request Processing process component . The message can be received in a Change Internal Request based on Purchase Request operation . The operation can change the internal request based on the confirmation of the buyer that informs the requester of the extent to which a requisition has been fulfilled ordered and rejected quantities by a purchase request. The Change Internal Request based on Purchase Request operation is included in a Purchasing In interface . The operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Internal Request business object .

The Purchase Order Processing process component can send a message to the Internal Request Processing process component . The message can be received in a Change Internal Request based on Purchase Order operation . The operation is included in an Ordering Notification In interface . The operation can change an internal request based on the notification of the buyer that informs the requester about the progress of procurement meaning changing of follow on documents for example the creation of goods and service acknowledgement including the amount of received goods as well as the creation of supplier invoices. The Change Internal Request based on Purchase Order operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Internal Request business object about a changed internal request.

The In House Requirement Processing process component can send a message to the Internal Request Processing process component . The message can be received in a Change Internal Request Based on Fulfillment Confirmation operation . The operation uses an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Internal Request business object . Also a Change Internal Request based on Availability Update operation uses the asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Internal Request business object . The Change Internal Request Based on Fulfillment Confirmation operation and the Change Internal Request based on Availability Update operation are included in an Internal Fulfillment In interface .

As show in the Internal Request business object can receive updated information and send the update into other components to perform further operations. For example an update of the Internal Request business object can use a synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation . The operation checks the given tasks for availability and provisional reservation. The check takes places in the In House Requirement Processing process component . Also a synchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Availability Information operation . The request takes place in the In House Requirement Processing process component . The Request Availability Information and Provisional Reservation operation and Request Availability Information operation are include in a Internal Fulfillment Out interface .

The In House Requirement Processing process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

As shown in other outbound process agents can also receive information from the Internal Request business object . An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Purchasing operation . The Request Purchasing operation can request the procurement of goods and or services. The Request Purchasing operation is included in a Purchasing Out interface . The operation can send an update notification to the Purchase Request Processing process component .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request GSA based on Delivery Confirmation operation . The operation can request express confirmation of goods and services for an internal request item. The Request GSA based on Delivery Confirmation operation is included in an Internal Acknowledgement Out interface . The Request GSA based on Delivery Confirmation operation can send an update notification to the Goods and Service Acknowledgement process component .

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request Invoicing based on Invoice Acceptance operation . The operation can send a request for an invoice based on various invoice acceptance terms. The Invoice Acceptance operation is included in an Internal Invoicing out interface . The operation can send an update notification to the Supplier Invoice Processing process component .

The Supplier Invoice Processing process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

An asynchronous outbound process agent can invoke a Request In House Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation . The operation can send a request for a requirement reservation and fulfillment from in house. The Request In House Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation is included in an Internal Fulfillment Out interface . Request In House Requirement Reservation and Fulfillment operation can send updates to the In House Requirement Processing process component .

The In House Requirement Processing process component is drawn with dashed lines to indicate that it is used to represent an external system in describing interactions with the external system this should be understood to require no more of the external system than that it be able to produce and receive messages as required by the process component that interacts with the external system.

The Purchase Request Processing process component can send a message to the RFQ Processing process component . The message can be received in a Maintain RFQ Request operation or a Cancel RFQ Request operation . The Maintain RFQ Request operation creates an RFQ request from business documents that are involved in the bidding process or in the negotiation process. The Cancel RFQ Request operation can cancel an RFQ request and cancels the corresponding bidding process this is the operation cancels the corresponding request for quote if one has been initiated . The operations are included in a Request for Quote In interface . The operations can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the RFQ Request business object . The RFQ Request business object represents a request to the purchasing department to prepare a request for quote.

The RFQ Request business object uses an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Confirm RFQ Request operation . The operation confirms execution of the request for quote. The operation is included in a Request for Quote Out interface . The Confirm RFQ Request operation can send an update to the Purchase Request Processing process component and the Purchasing Contract Processing process component .

The Purchasing Contract Processing process component can also be received in a Change Supplier Quote based on Purchasing Contract operation . The operation can change a supplier quote based on the purchasing contract confirmation. The operation is included in a Purchasing Contract In interface . The Change Supplier Quote based on Purchasing Contract operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Quote business object . The Supplier Quote business object represents a response to a request for quote in which a bidder offers to sell goods and services to a buyer according to the request criteria.

As shown in the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component can send a message to the RFQ Processing process component . The message can be received in a Maintain Supplier Quote operation . The operation creates or updates a supplier quote on the basis of the received customer quote which was sent in response to the invitation from the buyer to submit a quotation. The operation is included in a Quote Processing In interface . The Maintain Supplier Quote operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Quote business object .

The Supplier Quote business object can use an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation . The operation can request a purchase order based on the awarded respective winning supplier quote. The operation is included in a Quote Award Notification Out interface . The Request Purchase Order from Winning Quote operation can send an update message to the Purchase Order Processing process component .

The Supplier Quote business object can use a Request Purchasing Contract from Supplier Quote to Purchasing Contract Processing asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Contract from Winning Quote operation . The operation creates or updates a purchasing contract based on an accepted supplier quote. The Request Contract from Winning Quote operation is included in a Purchasing Contract Out interface . The operation can send an update message to the Purchasing Contract Processing process component .

The Supplier Quote business object can use an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Quote Change operation . The operation can request the change of the customer quote. The Supplier Quote business object can also use the asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Quote Award operation . The operation can notify the bidder either about supplier quote items for which the quotation from the bidder has been awarded including extending the award or about a rejection if the quotation from the bidder is not successful. The operations are included in a Quote Processing Out interface . The operations can send an update message to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

As shown in the Request for Quote business object uses a synchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Project Task Accountability Information operation . The operation can check the project task accountability. The Request Project Task Accountability Information operation is included in a Project Task Accountability Out interface . The operation can send messages to the Project Processing process component .

The Request for Quote business object can also use an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Notify of Project Task Assignment operation . The operation can notify of a request for quote project task assignment. The Notify of Project Task Assignment operation is included in a Project Task Assignment Notification Out interface . The operation can send messages to the Project Processing process component .

Furthermore the Request for Quote Business object can also use an asynchronous outbound process agent to invoke a Request Quote Creation operation a Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation or a Notify of Request for Quote Change operation . The Request Quote Creation operation can request the participation of the supplier in a bidding process. The Notify of Request for Quote Cancellation operation can notify the supplier about the cancellation of a request for quote. The Notify of Request for Quote Change operation can notify the supplier about changes to a request for quote. The operations and are included in a Request Quote Processing Out interface . The operations and can be used to send an update to the Opportunity Customer Quote Processing at Supplier process component .

As shown in a Material Inspection process component can send a message to a Supplier Performance Assessment process component . The message can be received in a Maintain Supplier Transaction Assessment operation . The operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update a Supplier Transaction Assessment business object . The Supplier Transaction Assessment business object represents the assessment of a supplier s performance based on business transactions that are evaluated automatically. The Maintain Supplier Transaction Assessment operation is included in a Material Inspection Notification In interface .

The Purchase Order Processing process component can send a message to a Supplier Performance Assessment process component . The message can be received in a Maintain Supplier Transaction Assessment operation . The operation can use an asynchronous inbound process agent to update the Supplier Transaction Assessment business object . The Maintain Supplier Transaction Assessment operation is included in a Ordering Notification In interface .

The subject matter described in this specification and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described herein or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as illustrating preferred embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

The subject matter has been described in terms of particular variations but other variations can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

