---

title: N channel JFET based digital logic gate structure
abstract: A circuit topography is presented which is used to create usable digital logic gates using N (negatively doped) channel Junction Field Effect Transistors (JFETs) and load resistors, level shifting resistors, and supply rails whose values are based on the direct current (DC) parametric distributions of those JFETs. This method has direct application to the current state of the art in high temperature, for example 300° C. to 500° C. and higher, silicon carbide (SiC) device production. The ability to produce inverting and combinatorial logic enables the production of pulse and edge triggered latches. This scale of logic synthesis would bring digital logic and state machine capabilities to devices operating in extremely hot environments, such as the surface of Venus, near hydrothermal vents, within nuclear reactors (SiC is inherently radiation hardened), and within internal combustion engines. The basic logic gate can be configured as a driver for oscillator circuits allowing for time bases and simple digitizers for resistive or reactive sensors. The basic structure of this innovation, the inverter, can be reconfigured into various analog circuit topographies through the use of feedback structures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07688117&OS=07688117&RS=07688117
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07688117
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080421
---
The invention described herein was made by an employee of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a circuit topography which is used to create usable digital logic gates using N negatively doped channel Junction Field Effect Transistors JFETs and load resistors level shifting resistors and supply rails whose values are based on the direct current parametric distributions of those JFETs. This method has direct application to the current state of the art in high temperature 300 C. to 500 C. and higher silicon carbide SiC device production.

There are current reasons for placing intelligent processing near or within sources of high temperature on the order of for example 300 C. and higher. Electronic components for use in these temperatures are typically made of silicon carbide SiC which can operate in temperatures as high as 600 C. However processing either in an analog domain or a digital domain requires components whose parameters are closely matched and as a consequence often exist on the same die as in integrated circuits. Current processing needs exceed SiC integrated circuit production capabilities which do not allow for highly integrated circuits.

It is currently possible to produce a single component to small number of components of negatively doped N channel Junction Field Effect Transistors JFETs and epitaxial resistors on a single substrate. In order to produce these components the quest was to find a way to synthesize usable logic blocks from these devices knowing that parameters such as gate to source turn off voltage and drain saturation current may vary from part to part by multiples of five to ten.

These parameter distribution issues precluded conventional direct coupled and buffered direct coupled FET logic techniques which depend upon precise manipulation and matching of transistor channel widths. Other logic techniques required mixes of complementary P positively doped and N negatively doped channel devices or mixes of depletion and enhancement mode devices. These other technologies typically worked at temperatures no greater than 125 C. for silicon with various other technologies operational from 225 C. up to 400 C. As stated earlier SiC can operate in temperatures up to 600 C.

The lack of precise device to device control over device parameters in discrete SiC JFET production and the lack of complementary devices created the need to use resistors as loads and as level shifters. Thus in the current state of the art one would normally use current sources push pull stages or dropping diodes available using lower temperature technologies to configure logic gates.

If one creates a method to produce these logic functions of inversion combination and latching one would bring basic intelligent capability to devices operating in harsh thermal environments. For example one could create a SiC pressure sensor in a jet engine with a frequency output which could have its output sent through a binary polynomial generator created out of SiC flip flops and exclusive OR gates. If the output frequency of the sensor is logically ANDed with the output of the generator a unique envelope would be associated with that sensor and when detected by a radio receiver the signal could be demodulated in a correlation space and differentiated from all the other sensors using different polynomials. A further example would be a surface rover on Venus which uses a simple digital state machine for decision making and control allowing it to exhibit useful behaviors.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to an apparatus configured to create digital logic gates. The apparatus comprises a first field effect transistor at a front end whose source is tied to zero volts and whose drain is tied to voltage Vdd through a first resistor. The apparatus also comprises a second field effect transistor following the front end configured as a unity gain buffer whose drain is tied to the Vdd whose gate is tied to a node connecting the first field effect transistor to the first resistor and whose drain is tied to a series combination of a second resistor and a third resistor. For a logic false input the output is at logic true and for a logic true input the output is at logic false.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a method including placing at a front end of an inverter a first field effect transistor whose source is tied to zero volts and whose drain is tied to voltage Vdd through a first resistor. The method also includes placing following the front end a second field effect transistor configured as a unity gain buffer whose drain is tied to the Vdd whose gate is tied to a node connecting the first field effect transistor to the first resistor and whose drain is tied to a series combination of a second resistor and a third resistor. For a logic false input the output is at logic true and for a logic true input the output is at logic false.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to an apparatus including placing means for placing at a front end of an inverter a first field effect transistor whose source is tied to zero volts and whose drain is tied to voltage Vdd through a first resistor. The apparatus also includes placing means for placing following the front end a second field effect transistor configured as a unity gain buffer whose drain is tied to the Vdd whose gate is tied to a node connecting the first field effect transistor to the first resistor and whose drain is tied to a series combination of a second resistor and a third resistor. For a logic false input the output is at logic true and for a logic true input the output is at logic false.

Reference will now be made to the embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to a circuit topography which is used to create digital logic gates using N negatively doped channel Junction Field Effect Transistors JFETs and load resistors level shifting resistors and supply rails whose values are based on the direct current DC parametric distributions of those JFETs. This method has direct application to the current state of the art in high temperature for example higher than 300 C. silicon carbide SiC device production. The ability to produce inverting and combinatorial logic enables the production of pulse and edge triggered latches. This scale of logic synthesis brings digital logic and state machine capabilities to devices operating in extremely hot environments like the surface of Venus near hydrothermal vents within nuclear reactors and within internal combustion engines.

As is known to those skilled in the art SiC is inherently radiation hardened. The basic logic gate can be configured as a driver for oscillator circuits allowing for time bases and simple digitizers for resistive or reactive sensors. The inverter of the present invention can be reconfigured into various analog circuit topographies through the use of feedback structures.

Due to the variability in SiC device parameters an embodiment of the present invention implements a circuit design to allow logic gates to be developed using only epitaxial resistors and N Channel JFETs. The resistor values are a function of the supply voltage which in turn is a function of the transistor turn off voltage.

In an embodiment of the invention a JFET technology the U401 dual N channel JFET was chosen. However it should be noted that any N channel FET could be used including SiC devices. The U401 parameters of the embodiment are Vgs off 0.5 to 2.5 volts. The saturation drain current Idss 0.5 mA to 10 mA.

In this embodiment of the invention R R R. The input is the gate of Q illustrated as point A. The output of the gate is given as the node where R connects to R and is illustrated as point B. A logic 1 true is given as 0 volts or ground. A logic 0 false is given as 0.5 Vss or 2.5 volts.

With a logic 0 2.5 volts at point A Q is turned off such that its drain voltage is at Vdd potential pulled up through R. Q wired as a follower biases itself on and given that the Rs are chosen as a function of Idss min and Vdd there is little drop across Q and so the voltage at source of Q and the top of R is approximately Vdd. Thus with R R the voltage at point B is the midpoint between Vdd and Vss which is 0 volts or ground.

With a logic 1 0 volts at point A Q is turned on such that its drain voltage is at ground potential with Vdd dropped across R. Q wired as a follower biases itself on and given that the Rs are chosen as a function of Idss min and Vdd there is little drop across Q and so the voltage at source of Q and the top of R is approximately ground or 0 volts. Thus with R R the voltage at point B is the midpoint between ground and Vss which is 2.5 volts.

Thus for a logic 0 input 2.5 volts the output is at logic 1 0 volts and for a logic 1 input 0 volts the output is a logic 0 2.5 volts . The device is a logical inverter.

Using NAND gates NOR gates and inverters one can configure any common realization of the exclusive OR or exclusive NOR functions XOR and XNOR respectively as illustrated in . Thus according to embodiments of the present invention using the aforementioned building blocks any combinatorial pulse or edge triggered device can be synthesized.

The present invention therefore allows device parameters to differ while still maintaining the functionality of the circuit. In current SiC MESFET transistors logic gates constructed from SiC MESFET transistors could not be turned off sufficiently for practical logic gate operation and had poor endurance at high temperatures. As such there are no instances in the current art of logic devices performing reliably for substantial periods of time at high temperature. The present invention has demonstrated that using an random sampling of an arbitrarily chosen N channel JFET as a model allows for the development of reliable high temperature logic functions for high temperature high ionizing radiation environments.

The present invention may therefore be used in commercial applications that require high temperature high radiation and hard logic devices. For example the present invention may be used in high temperature wireless sensors. In another example oscillators using resistive and capacitive sensors as time base components and built around SiC logic gates would be useful point of source digitizers of sensed variables in a high temperature environment such as a jet engine near a hydrothermal vent or at a drill head in deep hole environments. The output of the oscillator may be used to drive a binary polynomial generator unique to that sensor while also modulating the output of the oscillator by the polynomial prior to transmitting it on a wire or over air. This will give that sensor a unique signature. Multiple sensors transmitting on the same medium can then be singled out through source separation algorithms.

State machines may also be built out of SiC logic devices giving processing capability to devices fixed and mobile operating in high temperature environments. An example would be a robot operating on the surface of Venus with expected temperatures up to 460 C. A state machine built out of SiC logic could direct the vehicle as it avoids obstacles deploys sensors or transmits telemetry to other devices etc. Given the added radiation hardness of SiC robots could be made to enter nuclear power plants during and after a meltdown for mitigation or clean up. The extreme temperatures and radiation fluence could be tolerated by a SiC based robot.

The inverter of an embodiment of the invention allows for the creation of an analog amplifier. With its known output impedance as a function of R and R feeding the output back to the input and by including an input resistor a negative feedback ratio can be configured and the resulting circuit is that of an analog amplifier. This amplifier can be configured into the various and well known functions such as a voltage amplifier a summer an integrator a differentiator and other analog functions.

As noted above the present invention therefore allows for combinatorial pulse and clock mode logical devices oscillators and analog building blocks all made from the state of the art in SiC JFET devices and epitaxial resistors and which can operate at temperatures exceeding 500 C.

The foregoing description has been directed to specific embodiments of this invention. It will be apparent however that other variations and modifications may be made to the described embodiments with the attainment of some or all of their advantages. Therefore it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

