---

title: Systems, methods and devices for reusing spectrum of another operator
abstract: A system according to some embodiments includes a first transceiver configured to transmit downlink signals to, and to receive uplink signals from, a first plurality of mobile terminals in a geographic area using a telecommunications resource, and a resource coordination controller coupled to the first transceiver and configured to communicate with a second telecommunications system including a second transceiver configured to transmit downlink signals to, and receive uplink signals from, a second plurality of mobile terminals within the geographic area using the telecommunications resource. The resource coordination controller may be further configured to coordinate use of the telecommunications resource by the first transceiver and/or the first plurality of mobile terminals based on use of the telecommunications resource by the second transceiver and/or the second plurality of mobile terminals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08031646&OS=08031646&RS=08031646
owner: ATC Technologies, LLC
number: 08031646
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080513
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 938 071 filed May 15 2007 entitled Systems Methods And Devices For Reusing Spectrum Of Another Operator the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to wireless communications systems methods and components thereof and more particularly to satellite and terrestrial wireless communications systems methods and components thereof.

Satellite radiotelephone communications systems and methods are widely used for radiotelephone communications. Satellite radiotelephone communications systems and methods generally employ at least one space based component such as one or more satellites that is are configured to wirelessly communicate with a plurality of satellite radiotelephones.

A satellite radiotelephone communications system or method may utilize a single satellite antenna pattern beam or cell covering an entire service region served by the system. Alternatively or in combination with the above in cellular satellite radiotelephone communications systems and methods multiple satellite antenna patterns beams or cells are provided each of which can serve a substantially distinct service region in an overall service region to collectively provide service to the overall service region. Thus a cellular architecture that is similar to that used in conventional terrestrial cellular radiotelephone systems and methods can be implemented in cellular satellite based systems and methods. The satellite typically communicates with radiotelephones over a bidirectional communications pathway with radiotelephone communications signals being communicated from the satellite to the radiotelephone over a downlink or forward link also referred to as forward service link and from the radiotelephone to the satellite over an uplink or return link also referred to as return service link . In some cases such as for example in broadcasting the satellite may communicate information to one or more radioterminals unidirectionally.

The overall design and operation of cellular satellite radiotelephone systems and methods are well known to those having skill in the art and need not be described further herein. Moreover as used herein the term radiotelephone includes cellular and or satellite radiotelephones with or without a multi line display Personal Communications System PCS terminals that may combine a radiotelephone with data processing facsimile and or data communications capabilities Personal Digital Assistants PDA that can include a radio frequency transceiver and or a pager Internet Intranet access Web browser organizer calendar and or a global positioning system GPS receiver and or conventional laptop and or palmtop computers or other appliances which include a radio frequency transceiver. A radiotelephone also may be referred to herein as a radioterminal a mobile terminal a user device a wireless transmitter a wireless receiver a transceiver or simply as a terminal . As used herein the term s radioterminal radiotelephone mobile terminal user device wireless transmitter wireless receiver transceiver and or terminal also include s any other radiating user device equipment and or source that may have time varying or fixed geographic coordinates and or may be portable transportable installed in a vehicle aeronautical maritime or land based and or situated and or configured to operate locally and or in a distributed fashion over one or more terrestrial and or extra terrestrial location s . Furthermore as used herein the term space based component or space based system includes one or more satellites at any orbit geostationary substantially geostationary medium earth orbit low earth orbit etc. and or one or more other objects and or platforms e. g. airplanes balloons unmanned vehicles space crafts missiles etc. that has have a trajectory above the earth at any altitude.

Terrestrial networks can enhance cellular satellite radiotelephone system availability efficiency and or economic viability by terrestrially using reusing at least some of the frequencies that are allocated to cellular satellite radiotelephone systems. In particular it is known that it may be difficult for cellular satellite radiotelephone systems to reliably serve densely populated areas because satellite signals may be blocked by high rise structures and or may not penetrate into buildings. As a result satellite spectrum may be underutilized or unutilized in such areas. The terrestrial use reuse of at least some of the satellite system frequencies can reduce or eliminate this potential problem.

Moreover the capacity of an overall hybrid system comprising space based i.e. satellite and terrestrial communications capability may be increased by the introduction of terrestrial frequency use reuse of frequencies authorized for use by the space based component since terrestrial frequency use reuse may be much denser than that of a satellite only system. In fact capacity may be enhanced where it may be mostly needed i.e. in densely populated urban industrial commercial areas. As a result the overall system may become more economically viable as it may be able to serve more effectively and reliably a larger subscriber base.

One example of terrestrial reuse of satellite frequencies is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 937 332 to inventor Karabinis entitled Satellite Telecommunications Repeaters and Retransmission Methods the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety as if set forth fully herein. As described therein satellite telecommunications repeaters are provided which receive amplify and locally retransmit the downlink uplink signal received from a satellite radioterminal thereby increasing an effective downlink uplink margin in the vicinity of the satellite telecommunications repeater and allowing an increase in the penetration of uplink and downlink signals into buildings foliage transportation vehicles and other objects which can reduce link margin. Both portable and non portable repeaters are provided. See the abstract of U.S. Pat. No. 5 937 332.

Satellite radiotelephones for a satellite radiotelephone system or method having a terrestrial communications capability by terrestrially using reusing at least some frequencies of a satellite frequency band and using substantially the same air interface for both terrestrial and satellite communications may be more cost effective and or aesthetically appealing compared to other alternatives. Conventional dual band dual mode radiotelephone alternatives such as the well known Thuraya Iridium and or Globalstar dual mode satellite terrestrial radiotelephones duplicate some components as a result of the different frequency bands and or air interface protocols between satellite and terrestrial communications which leads to increased cost size and or weight of the radiotelephone. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 560 to inventor Karabinis entitled Satellite System Utilizing a Plurality of Air Interface Standards and Method Employing Same.

Satellite radioterminal communications systems and methods that may employ terrestrial use and or reuse of satellite frequencies by an Ancillary Terrestrial Network ATN comprising at least one Ancillary Terrestrial Component ATC are also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 684 057 to Karabinis entitled Systems and Methods for Terrestrial Reuse of Cellular Satellite Frequency Spectrum U.S. Pat. No. 6 785 543 to Karabinis entitled Filters for Combined Radiotelephone GPS Terminals U.S. Pat. No. 6 856 787 to Karabinis entitled Wireless Communications Systems and Methods Using Satellite Linked Remote Terminal Interface Subsystems U.S. Pat. No. 6 859 652 to Karabinis et al. entitled Integrated or Autonomous System and Method of Satellite Terrestrial Frequency Reuse Using Signal Attenuation and or Blockage Dynamic Assignment of Frequencies and or Hysteresis and U.S. Pat. No. 6 879 829 to Dutta et al. entitled Systems and Methods for Handover Between Space Based and Terrestrial Radioterminal Communications and For Monitoring Terrestrially Reused Satellite Frequencies At a Radioterminal to Reduce Potential Interference and in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 892 068 6 937 857 6 999 720 and 7 006 789 and Published U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2003 0054761 to Karabinis entitled Spatial Guardbands for Terrestrial Reuse of Satellite Frequencies US 2003 0054814 to Karabinis et al. entitled Systems and Methods for Monitoring Terrestrially Reused Satellite Frequencies to Reduce Potential Interference US 2003 0073436 to Karabinis et al. entitled Additional Systems and Methods for Monitoring Terrestrially Reused Satellite Frequencies to Reduce Potential Interference US 2003 0054762 to Karabinis entitled Multi Band Multi Mode Satellite Radiotelephone Communications Systems and Methods US 2002 0041575 to Karabinis et al. entitled Coordinated Satellite Terrestrial Frequency Reuse US 2003 0068978 to Karabinis et al. entitled Space Based Network Architectures for Satellite Radiotelephone Systems US 2003 0153308 to Karabinis entitled Staggered Sectorization for Terrestrial Reuse of Satellite Frequencies and US 2003 0054815 to Karabinis entitled Methods and Systems for Modifying Satellite Antenna Cell Patterns In Response to Terrestrial Reuse of Satellite Frequencies and in Published U.S. Patent Application Nos. 2004 0121727 2004 0142660 2004 0192395 2004 0192200 2004 0192293 2004 0203742 2004 0240525 2005 0026606 2005 0037749 2005 0041619 2005 0064813 2005 0079816 2005 0090256 2005 0118948 2005 0136836 2005 0164700 2005 0164701 2005 0170834 2005 0181786 2005 0201449 2005 0208890 2005 0221757 2005 0227618 2005 0239457 2005 0239403 2005 0239404 2005 0239399 2005 0245192 2005 0260984 2005 0260947 2005 0265273 2005 00272369 2005 0282542 2005 0288011 2006 0040613 2006 040657 and 2006 0040659 all of which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention the disclosures of all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if set forth fully herein.

Many of the above cited patents and publications can reduce or eliminate intra system interference that is caused by terrestrial use and or reuse of satellite frequencies by an ancillary terrestrial network. However inter system interference also can be caused by terrestrial use and or reuse of satellite frequencies by a separate terrestrial and or satellite network and or radioterminals communicating therewith. Furthermore reuse of terrestrial frequencies by terrestrial networks that have overlapping service areas can lead to inter system interference.

A system according to some embodiments includes a first transceiver configured to transmit downlink signals to and to receive uplink signals from a first plurality of mobile terminals in a geographic area using a telecommunications resource and a resource coordination controller coupled to the first transceiver and configured to communicate with a second telecommunications system including a second transceiver configured to transmit downlink signals to and receive uplink signals from a second plurality of mobile terminals within the geographic area using the telecommunications resource. The resource coordination controller may be further configured to coordinate use of the telecommunications resource by the first transceiver and or the first plurality of mobile terminals based on use of the telecommunications resource by the second transceiver and or the second plurality of mobile terminals. The telecommunications resource may include a frequency a subcarrier a time slot and or a spreading code.

The resource coordination controller may be further configured to coordinate use of the telecommunications resource by the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals based on use of the telecommunications resource by the second transceiver to receive uplink signals.

The resource coordination controller may be further configured to command the first transceiver to cease transmitting downlink signals to the first plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource when the second transceiver may be receiving uplink signals from the second plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource.

The resource coordination controller may be further configured to command the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals to the first plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource when the second transceiver has ceased receiving uplink signals from the second plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource.

The resource coordination controller may be further configured to coordinate use of the telecommunications resource by the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals based on use of the telecommunications resource by the second transceiver to transmit downlink signals.

The resource coordination controller may be further configured to command the first transceiver to cease transmitting downlink signals to the first plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource when the second transceiver may be transmitting downlink signals to the second plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource.

The resource coordination controller may be further configured to command the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals to the first plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource when the second transceiver has ceased receiving uplink signals from the second plurality of mobile terminals using the telecommunications resource.

The first transceiver may be configured to transmit downlink signals to the first plurality of mobile terminals during a first time frame and the second transceiver may be configured to receive uplink signals from the second plurality of mobile terminals during a second time frame that may be non overlapping and or partially overlapping with the first time frame and the frequency coordination controller may be configured to control relative timing of the first time frame and the second time frame.

The resource coordination controller may be configured to negotiate the first time frame and the second time frame and a guard time between the first time frame and the second time frame with the second telecommunications system and to communicate the timing of the first time frame to the first transceiver.

The resource coordination controller may include a first resource coordination controller that may be configured to communicate with a second resource coordination controller in the second telecommunications system.

The first transceiver may be configured to transmit downlink signals and receive uplink signals using a time division duplex TDD protocol in which downlink signals and uplink signals are transmitted received during alternating transmit and receive time slots and the resource coordination controller may be configured to define timing of the transmit and receive time slots in coordination with the timing of transmit and receive time slots used by the second transceiver.

Start times of transmit and receive time frames of the first transceiver may be substantially aligned in time with start times of respective transmit and receive time frames of the second transceiver and the resource coordination controller may be configured to cause the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals using the telecommunications resource during its transmit time frames and to cause the second transceiver to receive uplink signals using the telecommunications resource during its receive time frames.

Start times of transmit time frames of the first transceiver may be substantially aligned in time with start times of receive time frames of the second transceiver and start times of receive time frames of the first transceiver are substantially aligned in time with start times of transmit time frames of the second transceiver and the resource coordination controller may be configured to cause the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals using the telecommunications resource during its transmit time frames and to cause the second transceiver to transmit downlink signals using the telecommunications resource during its transmit time frames.

Start times of transmit time frames of the first transceiver may be substantially aligned in time with start times of receive time frames of the second transceiver and start times of receive time frames of the first transceiver are substantially aligned in time with start times of transmit time frames of the second transceiver and the resource coordination controller may be configured to cause the first transceiver to receive uplink signals using the telecommunications resource during its receive time frames and to cause the second transceiver to receive uplink signals using the telecommunications resource during its receive time frames.

The first and second telecommunications systems may be independent systems that are operated by different operators.

A resource coordination controller according to some embodiments includes a communications module configured to communicate with a first telecommunications system including a first transceiver configured to transmit downlink signals to and receive uplink signals from a first plurality of mobile terminals using a telecommunications resource in a geographic area and to communicate with a second telecommunications system including a second transceiver configured to transmit downlink signals to and receive uplink signals from a second plurality of mobile terminals within the geographic area and a controller configured to coordinate use of the telecommunications resource by the first transceiver to transmit downlink signals based on use of the telecommunications resource by the second transceiver to receive uplink signals.

Methods of coordinating use of a telecommunications resource by first and second telecommunications systems operating in a common geographic area according tot some embodiments include coordinating operation of the first and second telecommunications systems so that downlink signals are transmitted to or uplink signals are received from a first plurality of mobile terminals within the common geographic area at a first transceiver in the first telecommunications system using a telecommunications resource during a first time frame during which a second transceiver in the second telecommunications system is not using the telecommunications resource in the common geographic area and so that downlink signals are transmitted to or uplink signals are received from a second plurality of mobile terminals within the common geographic area at a second transceiver in the second telecommunications system using the telecommunications resource during a second time frame that is non overlapping and or partially overlapping with the first time frame and during which the first transceiver in the first telecommunications system is not using the telecommunications resource.

Specific exemplary embodiments of the invention now will be described with reference to the accompanying drawing. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected coupled or responsive to another element it can be directly connected coupled or responsive to the other element or intervening elements may be present. Furthermore connected coupled or responsive as used herein may include wirelessly connected coupled or responsive.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless expressly stated otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes comprises including and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present disclosure and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus a first element below could be termed a second element and similarly a second element may be termed a first element without departing from the teachings of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. The symbol is also used as a shorthand notation for and or .

The overall design and operation of radiotelephone systems and methods are well known to those having skill in the art and need not be described further herein. Moreover as used herein the term radiotelephone includes cellular and or satellite radiotelephones with or without a multi line display Personal Communications System PCS terminals that may combine a radiotelephone with data processing facsimile and or data communications capabilities Personal Digital Assistants PDA that can include a radio frequency transceiver and or a pager Internet Intranet access Web browser organizer calendar and or a global positioning system GPS receiver and or conventional laptop and or palmtop computers or other appliances which include a radio frequency transceiver. A radiotelephone also may be referred to herein as a radioterminal a mobile terminal or simply as a terminal . As used herein the term s radioterminal radiotelephone mobile terminal and or terminal also include s any other radiating user device equipment source that may have time varying or fixed geographic coordinates and or may be portable transportable installed in a vehicle aeronautical maritime or land based and or situated and or configured to operate locally and or in a distributed fashion over one or more terrestrial and or extra terrestrial location s . Furthermore as used herein the term space based component or space based system includes one or more satellites at any orbit geostationary substantially geostationary medium earth orbit low earth orbit etc. and or one or more other objects and or platforms e. g. airplanes balloons unmanned vehicles space crafts missiles etc. that has have a trajectory above the earth at any altitude.

Some embodiments of the present invention allow first and second radioterminal communication system operators carriers to use identical or overlapping system resources such as a band of frequencies in respective first and second footprints that at least partially overlap by allowing a first operator to use the band of frequencies to provide uplink communications from its radioterminals to its base stations and a second operator to use the band of frequencies to provide downlink communications from its base stations to its radioterminals.

The satellite communications system includes satellite which may be a geostationary orbital satellite. The satellite may include a communications antenna and an electronics system configured to control operations of the satellite . The satellite is configured to transmit wireless communications signals to one or more wireless terminals in a satellite footprint including one or more satellite cells using a satellite forward service link downlink frequency fD which may fall within a shared frequency range from f to f over one or more satellite links . The satellite is configured to receive wireless communications from the one or more wireless terminals in the satellite cell over one or more satellite return service link uplink frequencies.

The terrestrial communications network includes at least one base station which may include an antenna and an electronics system that is configured to receive wireless communications signals from a second wireless terminal over an uplink frequency fU over a wireless link . The uplink frequency fU may be within the shared frequency range f f in which the satellite downlink frequency fD is located. Thus the uplink frequency fU may be the same as a downlink frequency fD used by the satellite in the satellite cell in which the wireless terminal is located. Furthermore a geographic service area of the base station may overlap with the satellite cell . Thus as illustrated in the wireless terminal located within the satellite cell may be receiving downlink signals from the satellite using a frequency in the shared frequency range f f. The wireless terminal also located within the satellite cell may transmit uplink signals to the base station also using the frequency in the shared frequency range f f used by the wireless terminal to receive downlink signals from the satellite .

More specifically the band of frequencies from f to f where f is greater than f is a band of frequencies used by radioterminals of a first operator to receive information from one or more satellites of the first operator. In other words at least some frequencies of the band of frequencies from f to f are used as downlink frequencies by the first operator of the satellite communications system . At least some of the same frequencies of the band of frequencies from f to f are used as uplink frequencies by the second operator of the terrestrial communications system .

Still referring to embodiments of satellite communications systems methods can include at least one satellite gateway that can include an antenna and an electronics system . The satellite gateway may be connected to other networks including terrestrial and or other wired and or wireless communications networks such as for example a public switched telephone network a cellular PCS network and or the Internet.

The satellite gateway communicates with the satellite over a satellite feeder link . According to some embodiments the satellite gateway is also configured to communicate with the base station in the terrestrial network generally over a terrestrial links through a resource coordination controller RCC the operation of which will be described in more detail below.

Potential interference signals and are illustrated in . Since the satellite of the satellite communications system transmits downlink signals in the shared frequency range f f while the base station of the terrestrial communications system receives uplink signals in the shared frequency range f f a downlink signal transmitted by the satellite can potentially interfere with signals at the receiver of the base station . Similarly since the radioterminal of the terrestrial communications system transmits uplink signals in the shared frequency range f f while the radioterminal of the satellite communications system receives downlink signals in the shared frequency range f f an uplink signal transmitted by the radioterminal can potentially interfere with signals at the receiver of the radioterminal .

Interference with the radioterminals of the terrestrial communications system may be reduced minimized and or precluded since the radioterminals of the terrestrial communications system transmit uplink signals using frequencies from f to f but do not receive downlink signals using frequencies from f to f. Similarly interference with the satellite of the satellite communications system may be reduced minimized and or precluded since the satellite of the satellite communications system transmits downlink signals using frequencies from f to f but does not receive uplink signals using frequencies from f to f.

Interference at the base station of the terrestrial communications system may be reduced minimized and or precluded by configuring the satellite of the satellite communications system to transmit during time intervals when the terminals of the terrestrial communications system are silent and the base stations of the terrestrial communications system do not receive and may only be transmitting. Accordingly in some embodiments base station to base station interference may be reduced minimized and or precluded by the first operator using a Time Division Duplex TDD protocol or any other protocol in which different partially overlapping or non overlapping portions of a frame are used to transmit and to receive.

In further embodiments the shared frequency range can be used only for one of downlink or uplink communications and the TDD frame structure of the two communications systems can be coordinated so that only one of the systems uses a shared frequency at a given time.

In some embodiments transmit and receive portions of the frame may be fully overlapping. In further embodiments the first operator may use a Code Division Multiplexed CDM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiplexed TDM and or Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocol comprising a frame comprising a transmit portion and a receive portion that overlap partially overlap or do not overlap. In some embodiments the second operator may use a Frequency Division Multiplexed FDM and or Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA protocol that may be an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexed OFDM and or Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA protocol. In accordance with further embodiments the first operator may also use a FDM FDMA protocol that may be an OFDM OFDMA protocol. The second operator may according to some embodiments use a CDM CDMA TDM and or TDMA protocol.

In general a first protocol a first air interface may be used by the first operator and a second protocol a second air interface may be used by the second operator. The first and second protocols may be identical similar or different therebetween.

Coordination of the use of the shared frequency range f f may be accomplished by a resource coordination controller RCC . The RCC communicates with the gateway of the satellite communications system via a wired and or wireless link and with the base station of the terrestrial communications system via wired and or wireless link . While the RCC is illustrated in as a separate standalone device it will be appreciated that in practice the RCC can be implemented within the electronics of the gateway and or within the electronics of the base station . In some embodiments the functionality of the RCC can be distributed between the electronics of the gateway and the electronics of the base station .

The RCC can store access both static and dynamic information concerning the operations of the satellite communications system and the terrestrial communications system . Some of the information stored accessed by the RCC can include but is not limited to information regarding the geographic coverage area of cells served by satellites and or terrestrial base stations in the systems frequency usage and allocation usage and or quality statistics real time and or historical etc. Based on this stored information the RCC can determine when the communications systems desire to use a shared frequency range and to assist the systems communications in coordinating the use of the shared frequency range to reduce and or minimize the effect of interference arising from the use of the shared frequency range.

For example the RCC can store service area maps for each of the communications systems and identify areas in which us of a shared frequency range would potentially cause interference. When one of the communications systems desires to begin using a frequency in the shared frequency range within a specified satellite or terrestrial cell the communications system sends a request to the RCC identifying the proposed shared frequency and the cell in which it will be used and requesting authorization to use the frequency within the identified cell. The RCC analyzes the request and determines if the frequency is currently in use by the other communications system within an overlapping cell or within an area close enough to the proposed cell that interference will be an issue . Based on the current and proposed use of the frequency by the communications systems the RCC identifies whether and under what restrictions conditions the requesting communications system can use the identified frequency within the proposed cell. The RCC then provides a response to the requesting communications system informing the system of whether the shared frequency can be used and if so under what restrictions conditions. Thus the response from the RCC to the requesting communications system may fall into one of three basic categories DENTED APPROVED RESTRICTED and APPROVED UNRESTRICTED.

The priority of use of a shared frequency within a particular geographic area may be governed by agreement between the system operators by analysis of usage statistics or expected loads and or any other criterion. For example one of the communications systems may have priority over the use a particular shared frequency in a particular geographic region. Thus for a given geographic area when the communications system having priority over a shared frequency is using the frequency for communications a request by the other communications system to use the shared frequency may be denied. In some cases neither communications system may have priority over the particular frequency. Where neither system has priority the RCC may determine which conditions restrictions are indicated and instruct the systems to share the frequency under the designated conditions restrictions.

A decision matrix for the RCC according to some embodiments is provided below as Table 1. In Table 1 the separate communications systems are referred to as S and S. As shown therein in Scenario when one system S requests use of a shared frequency within an identified cell and the frequency is not currently in use by the other communications system S the response may indicate that the request is approved for unrestricted use regardless of which system has priority to use the frequency in the identified cell.

As shown in Scenarios and when a system requests use of a frequency in an identified cell and the other system is already using the frequency within an overlapping cell the response of the RCC may depend on the relative priority assigned for the requested frequency in the identified cell. For example if the requesting system has priority over the frequency cell or if neither system has priority the RCC may approve the request for restricted use. However if the requesting system S does not have priority over the frequency cell and the system having priority is currently using the frequency cell the RCC may deny the request.

When an approval for restricted use is provided to a system the RCC provides the restrictions conditions under which the requesting system can use the frequency in the identified cell. For example the restrictions conditions can include a start time for using the frequency cell a lease time during which the frequency cell can be used under the identified restrictions frame structure and timing information to be used information regarding which time slots spreading codes subcarriers or other resource that can be used etc. The restrictions conditions may be chosen to reduce and or minimize the effect of interference on the other communications systems using the shared frequency in or near the identified cell.

For example as discussed above a frequency can be shared within a given geographic location cell using a time division duplex TDD protocol in which transceivers alternately transmit and receive communications signals. That is communications are performed within a series of frames each of which includes a transmit portion and a receive portion. Assuming neither system has priority over the frequency within the identified cell when the RCC receives a request from a first system to use the frequency within the cell and the second system is already using the frequency within the cell the RCC can provide the both the first and second communications systems transmission parameters that identify how the shared frequency can be used e.g. for uplink or downlink transmissions as well as when the first system can begin using the identified frequency for transmissions.

Referring to in some embodiments the RCC can instruct the systems to begin their respective TRANSMIT and RECEIVE frames at the same time. That is the staring point of the TRANSMIT and RECEIVE portions of the frames and are generally synchronized. It will be appreciated that due to the guard intervals GI the starting points need not be precisely synchronized. In that case the shared frequency may be used only for downlink transmissions in the first system system and for uplink transmissions in the second system system as indicated by the cross hatch markings in . Thus while the shared frequency can be fully utilized it may not be used at the same time by both systems. Thus interference between the two communications systems as a result of the use of a shared frequency can be reduced and or eliminated.

Referring to in some embodiments the RCC can instruct the systems to begin their respective TRANSMIT and RECEIVE frames at alternating times. Thus the system begins its TRANSMIT frame at the same time that the system begins its RECEIVE frame. However as illustrated in the shared frequency may be used only for uplink transmissions in both systems. In other embodiments the shared frequency could alternatively be used only for downlink communications. Thus while the shared frequency can be fully utilized it may not be used at the same time by both systems and interference between the two communications systems as a result of the use of a shared frequency can be reduced and or eliminated.

It will be appreciated that the transmit and receive frames need not be contiguous but can be time slots in a larger time division multiplex TDM scheme. For example referring to A TDM frame can be defined to include three time slots S S and S. Each of three communications systems System to System is assigned a different time slot in the TDM frame to be used as a RECEIVE frame for uplink transmissions by the RCC so that the frequency is not used by two different systems in the same time slot. In this manner more than two communications systems can share a particular frequency within a given geographic area depending on the number of time slots defined in each TDM frame. Moreover the remaining time slots can be used as TRANSMIT frames during which time downlink transmissions can occur on non shared frequencies. Such a configuration may be particularly suitable for asymmetrical communications applications such as audio video distribution client server applications etc. which may consume significantly more downlink bandwidth than uplink bandwidth.

Alternatively each of three communications systems could be assigned a different time slot in the TDM frame to be used as a TRANSMIT frame for downlink transmissions .

Many other decision matrices besides the one shown in Table 1 can be used. For example rather than denying a request when a system having priority is already using a shared frequency in a given cell the RCC can approve the request but restrict the approval so that the requesting system is allocated fewer resources than the system having priority. In another example the RCC could be configured so that requests from a system having priority are always approved without restrictions and any system using the requested frequency is ordered to cease use of the frequency.

It will be appreciated that although examples illustrated in are described in connection with multiple systems sharing a range of frequencies in a common geographic area other types of resources besides frequencies could be shared in a similar manner. For example an RCC could be configured to coordinate the use of a CDMA spreading code or block range or family of codes by multiple systems in a similar manner. In general in some embodiments the resource coordination controller can be configured to assist multiple independent communications systems in coordinating the use of a resource such as a frequency subcarrier time slot or spreading code by alternating use of the resource by the systems in the time domain.

In other embodiments the base station and the gateway may also be configured to communicate with one another directly over a wired and or wireless link to allow synchronization therebetween and or for other reasons such as for example to exchange information as described above for interference mitigation purposes. Accordingly a second operator may reuse at least some spectrum of a first operator on a secondary non interference and or minimum interference basis.

Further embodiments are illustrated in . As shown therein a first terrestrial communications system operated by a first system operator includes a plurality of base stations that communicate with a plurality of radioterminals within a first geographic service area. A second terrestrial communications system operated by a second system operator includes a plurality of base stations that communicate with a plurality of radioterminals within a second geographic service area that at least partially overlaps with the first service area of the first terrestrial communications system.

A second operator configures one or more base stations to use the band of frequencies from f to f to transmit information to one or more terminals of the second operator. In other words the second operator uses at least some frequencies of the band of frequencies from f to f for uplink frequencies . It will be understood that the frequencies may be in a terrestrial cellular PCS satellite and or other frequency band.

Interference with the radioterminals of the second operator may be reduced minimized and or precluded since the radioterminals of the second operator transmit using frequencies from f to f but do not receive using frequencies from f to f. Interference with base stations of the second operator may be reduced minimized and or precluded by configuring the base stations of the first operator to transmit during time intervals when the terminals of the second operator are silent and the base stations of the second operator do not receive and may only be transmitting. Alternatively interference can be reduced by configuring the base stations of the first operator and the base stations of the second operator to use the shared frequency range only for downlink or uplink transmissions in alternating time frames.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

