---

title: Program guide navigation
abstract: Systems and methods that provide a first electronic program guide (EPG) screen having a plurality of channel identifiers, program information, and an icon corresponding to increasing scroll speed, and responsive to a user selection corresponding to the icon, enable a user to scroll among the plurality of channel identifiers at the increased scroll speed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08245255&OS=08245255&RS=08245255
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08245255
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080911
---
This application claims priority to copending U.S. provisional patent application entitled Program Guide Navigation filed on Mar. 26 2008 and accorded Ser. No. 61 039 629 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

With recent advances in digital transmission technology subscriber television systems are now capable of providing much more than traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming the set top box or set top terminal STT has become an important computing device for accessing content services and content within those services and navigating a user through a maze of available services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality STTs now also support an increasing number of two way digital services such as video on demand and personal video recording.

Typically a STT is coupled to a cable or satellite or generally a subscriber television system and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at a user s site. Some of the software executed by a STT can be downloaded and or updated via the subscriber television system. Each STT also typically includes a processor communication components and memory and is connected to a television or other display device such as a personal computer. While many conventional STTs are stand alone devices that are externally connected to a television set a STT and or its functionality may be integrated into a television set or personal computer or even an audio device such as a programmable radio as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Many STTs located in subscriber television systems today are available with an electronic program guide EPG that is presented on a display device e.g. TV in a grid view. Typically the grid view includes television channel or service identifiers e.g. broadcast channel numbers and or service identifiers such as ABC CNN etc. listed on one border of the grid along a vertical axis of the EPG and time e.g. time of content presentation or availability for viewing in defined increments e.g. increments of one half hour listed on another border of the grid along the horizontal axis. Titles of content instances e.g. programs such as movies episodes of television shows sports events or other entertainment events etc. are shown within the borders of the grid in blocks each block defined by the channel and duration of time the content instance is available for presentation.

Users typically navigate through the grid to view what programs are available at any given time and or to learn more about the program title listed in a desired block. For instance a user can use an infrared IR remote control device to scroll or page down the channel listings. As more and more types of programming become available to subscribers the number of channels to scroll through increases as well. Although various shortcuts e.g. SKIP and BACK keys on a remote have been implemented in the past to shorten the navigation time though an EPG given the hundreds of channels to choose from it may still take up to approximately a minute to reach a channel of interest. Since performance is important to users a common complaint is that existing scroll mechanisms are simply too slow. This perceived shortcoming is further aggravated by the fact that many STTs are low cost embedded platforms with application performance bounded by low central processor unit CPU MIPs million instructions per second and further aggravated by the existence of platforms that use the same CPU for processing audio video A V packets as is used for implementing applications.

Systems and methods that provide a first electronic program guide EPG screen having a plurality of channel identifiers program information and an icon corresponding to increasing scroll speed and responsive to a user selection corresponding to the icon enable a user to scroll among the plurality of channel identifiers at the increased scroll speed.

Disclosed herein are various system and method embodiments for facilitating navigation in an electronic program guide EPG collectively referred to herein as a quickfind system. The quickfind system provides an EPG navigation mode that enables a user during e.g. exclusively the duration of the mode to more quickly scroll to a channel or time of interest e.g. time slots than existing guide navigation systems. In one embodiment the user enters e.g. commences a defined quickfind mode or state using a designated remote control key or button. In the quickfind mode only the channel identifiers and time axis are rendered. Additionally helpful instructions are provided to a user to make the user aware of commencement of the mode the manner of use of quickfind features and or how to terminate the mode. In the quickfind mode program information such as program titles descriptive text of a highlighted program in a grid etc. is not rendered which frees up processing resources e.g. a central processing unit CPU enabling speedier navigation through the EPG. In some embodiments other program guide specific information may be omitted from the rendering process during the quickfind mode such as one or more of corresponding grid lines of the EPG screen channel logos operator logos video or static pictures of the content instance from which the EPG was launched etc.

Although certain embodiments of the quickfind system are described herein in the context of a subscriber television system it should be understood that other communication or media systems requiring menu navigation can similarly benefit. Further although described in the context of an EPG e.g. grid style it should be understood that other navigable menus e.g. non grid formats non EPG etc. may similarly utilize and benefit from the functionality embodied by the quickfind system.

Since certain embodiments of the quickfind system are described in the context of a subscriber television system an exemplary subscriber television system is described followed by descriptions of exemplary set top terminals STTs remote control devices and then illustration of operations of an embodiment of a quickfind system. Certain embodiment of the quickfind system may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the disclosure to those having ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore all examples given herein are intended to be non limiting and are included as examples among many others contemplated and within the scope of the disclosure.

An STT is typically situated at a residence or place of business of a user and may be a stand alone unit or integrated into another device such as for example a television set a personal computer a communications device e.g. cellular phone with menu features personal digital assistants etc. or other display devices or an audio device. The customer s premises may be a user s residence or place of business among others. The STT receives signals carrying video audio and or other data from the headend through the network and provides reverse information to the headend through the network .

In one implementation the headend receives among other content program guide information from a program guide information provider not shown . The program guide information preferably comprises data corresponding to services that may be provided via the STT . The headend edits the program guide data and transmits the edited program guide data to the STT via the network . The headend may include one or more server devices not shown for providing video audio and or data to client devices such as the STT . The headend and the STT cooperate to provide a user with television services via the television set . The television services may include for example broadcast television services cable television services premium television services video on demand VOD services Internet services messaging services and or pay per view PPV services among others.

The STT preferably includes one or more processors such as processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor for controlling operations of the STT an output system for driving the television set display and a tuner system for tuning into a particular television channel or frequency to display content and for sending and receiving various types of content to and from the headend . The STT may include in some embodiments multiple tuners for receiving downloaded or transmitted content. The tuner system enables the STT to tune to downstream media and data transmissions thereby allowing a user to receive digital and or analog content delivered in the downstream transmission via the subscriber television system. The tuner system includes in one implementation an out of band tuner for bi directional QPSK data communication and one or more QAM tuners in band for receiving television signals. Additionally a receiver receives externally generated information such as user inputs or commands from an input device such as remote control device or other devices.

The STT processes analog and or digital transmission signals for storage in a storage device communicated via interface and or for display to the television set . Storage device comprises a hard disk drive. In some embodiments storage device may comprise other types of media storage devices such as an optical disk drive comprising one or more media e.g. compact disks digital video disks etc. . The STT preferably includes a signal processing system and a media engine . The components of the signal processing system are capable of QAM demodulation forward error correction and demultiplexing MPEG 2 transport streams and parsing elementary streams and packetized elementary streams. Additional components not shown include an analog decoder and compression engine for processing an analog transmission signal and in one implementation converting it to compressed audio and video streams that are produced in accordance with the syntax and semantics of a designated audio and video coding method such as specified by the MPEG 2 audio and MPEG 2 video ISO IEC 13818 standard H.264 among others.

The signal processing system outputs packetized compressed streams and presents them as input for storage in the storage device or in other implementations as input to the media engine for decompression by a video decompression engine not shown and an audio decompression engine not shown for display on the TV set . One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the signal processing system will preferably include other components not shown including memory decryptors samplers digitizers e.g. analog to digital converters and multiplexers among other components. Further it will be understood that one or more of the components listed above will interface with the processor and or system memory and or dedicated memory for a particular component to facilitate data transfer and or processing of the video and or audio signals for display and or storage.

One or more programmed software applications are executed by utilizing the computing resources in the STT . Note that an application typically though not necessarily includes a client part and a server counterpart that cooperate to provide the complete functionality of the application. The applications may be resident in memory which can be volatile and or non volatile memory or downloaded or uploaded into memory . Applications stored in memory are executed by the processor under the auspices of the operating system . The operating system includes among other things at least one resource manager that provides an interface to resources of the STT such as for example computing resources. The operating system also includes a broadcast file system BFS client that cooperates with a BFS server not shown located at for instance the headend to receive data and or applications that are delivered from the BFS server in a carousel fashion. The operating system further includes device drivers such as device driver which work in cooperation with the operating system to provide operating instructions for communicating with peripheral devices such as a remote control device or internal components such as an integrated storage device.

Data required as input by an application is stored in memory and read by the processor as need be during the course of application execution. Input data may be data stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to the STT or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application at the time it was generated as a software application. Data generated by an application is stored in memory by the processor during the course of application execution. Memory also includes application memory that various applications may use for storing and or retrieving data.

An application referred to as a navigator is also resident in memory for providing a navigation framework for services provided by the STT . The navigator registers for and in some cases reserves certain user inputs related to navigational keys such as channel increment decrement Last channel Favorite channel quickfind key etc. The navigator also provides users with television related menu options that correspond to STT functions such as for example blocking a channel or a group of channels from being displayed in a channel menu presented on a screen display. In one embodiment once an EPG application is launched the quickmode features are provided by the EPG application in cooperation with the remote control device as manipulated by the user.

Memory also includes a platform library . The platform library is a collection of utilities useful to applications such as a timer manager a compression manager a configuration manager a hyper text markup language HTML parser a database manager a widget toolkit a string manager and other utilities not shown . These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces APIs as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library that are shown in include a window manager and a service application manager SAM client .

The window manager includes a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the screen regions and user input. The window manager is a component that in one embodiment is part of the platform but in some embodiments may be part of the operating system . The window manager on the STT is responsible for as directed by one or more applications implementing the creation display and de allocation of the limited STT screen resources. The window manager allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions or windows. The window manager communicates with the resource manager to coordinate available resources such as display memory among different resource consuming processes. Such processes may be directly or indirectly invoked by one or more applications.

The SAM client is a client component of a client server pair of components with the server component not shown being located at the headend preferably in a digital network control system. A SAM database in memory includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Herein database will refer to a database structured data or other data structures as is known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Applications can also be downloaded into memory at the request of the SAM client typically in response to a request by the user or in response to a message from the headend . In the example STT illustrated in memory includes a media on demand MOD application an e mail application a web browser application the EPG application a WatchTV application and a Pay Per View PPV application to provide the corresponding services. It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for embodiments of the disclosure. These applications and others provided by the subscriber television system operator are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.

An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system OS component or to a client platform component or to an application or to respective parts thereof can reside in and execute out of memory . Likewise data input into or output from any executable program can reside in memory . Furthermore an executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system component or to a client platform component or to an application or to respective parts thereof can reside in memory or in a local storage device externally connected to or integrated into the STT e.g. storage device and be transferred into memory for execution. Likewise data input for an executable program can reside in memory or a storage device and be transferred into memory for use by an executable program or algorithm. In addition data output by an executable program can be written into one portion of memory by an executable program or algorithm and be transferred into another portion of memory or into a storage device. In some embodiments the executable code is not transferred but instead functionality is effected by other mechanisms.

The STT can also include one or more wireless or wired interfaces also called communication ports for receiving and or transmitting data to other devices. For instance the STT may feature USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet for connection to a computer IEEE 1394 for connection to content devices in an entertainment center serial and or parallel ports among others.

An example remote control device to provide input to the STT is illustrated in . The example remote control device includes a select button for making selections on a screen display and navigation buttons for navigating within a particular screen display. The example remote control device also includes alphanumeric buttons for entering display channel numbers. The A B and C buttons or keys e.g. remote control buttons or remote control keys can correspond to certain application defined functions that have a corresponding A B or C symbol or icon displayed in a graphic user interface GUI presented on a display device. In one embodiment the B button is used to commence the quickfind mode and hence enable enhanced scrolling for a defined duration of the mode with the display of assistive text graphics and or audio to provide user friendly implementation of the quickfind system as described further below. It will be appreciated that other buttons or other mechanisms may be used in lieu of the B button in some embodiments. In some embodiments the selection of these symbols A B and C may be permitted directly via a touch screen display or via an interactive screen that displays a cursor manipulated by the remote control device which can select these and other symbols or icons on the screen to evoke a response somewhat similar to computer mouse interactions known in the art. The guide button may be used to access a television program guide such as for example an EPG screen. The settings button enables a user to access user settings. Many alternative methods of providing user input may be used including a remote control device with different buttons and or button layouts a keyboard device a voice activated device etc. The embodiments described herein are not limited by the type of device used to provide user input.

Referring to a composite diagram is illustrated and includes an EPG screen presented on a display device not shown the STT and the remote control device . The EPG screen is configured in one embodiment with a grid format that includes a list or column of channel identifiers shown from top to bottom in ascending sequential channel order along with a corresponding service identifier but configurable in other formats a time row and program information that includes program titles and descriptive information . Each of the program titles are located in a respective program block among a plurality of program blocks . In other words each program block is labeled with an accompany program title . A program block such as highlighted program block is bounded in each row by a start and end time e.g. a time slot delineated by the times in time row e.g. blocks are located beneath one or more respective time of availability and by channel row delineated by a channel identifier in this case channel row corresponding to the 103 Speed channel identifier. The user may advance or navigate a highlight symbol e.g. an empty box that surrounds and highlights the periphery of each block or other mechanisms of distinction in row and column directions using navigation keys . The EPG screen also includes program guide specific information such as the grid lines or other graphics e.g. arrow icons etc. operator logos current date and time information among other information. For instance program guide specific information or also referred to as program specific information may also include in some embodiments scalable video or static images not shown for instance located above the grid channel logos etc. The EPG screen also includes a quickfind icon that suggests to the user that advanced or enhanced navigation or scroll e.g. speed scroll features are available. The quickfind icon corresponds to a like symbol B on the remote control device and may be selectable directly on the screen e.g. using a displayed cursor manipulated by the remote control device or directly via a touch screen implementation in some embodiments or as in the present example used as an association mechanism to direct the user s attention to the corresponding symbol on the remote control device .

Other variations are contemplated to be within the scope of the disclosure. For instance in one embodiment the quickfind icon is continuously displayed in the EPG screen . In some embodiments the quickfind icon is displayed intermittently or responsive to detecting the initial scroll operations effected by a user e.g. detecting an IR signal corresponding to a back or skip keypress not shown detecting a defined threshold of EPG screen changes or refreshes resulting from activating a scroll function etc. . In some embodiments the availability of quickfind functionality may be made known to a user via a scrolling text message accompanying the EPG screen or via pop up in some embodiments. In some embodiments the quickfind icon may be omitted from the EPG screen with existence of such functionality made known to a user via a dedicated and labeled button e.g. labeled quickfind on the remote control device . In some embodiments a brief text description may be displayed next to the quickfind icon e.g. before user actuation . In some embodiments a combination of some or all of these options or others for raising awareness of the quickfind features may be available to a user.

Responsive to a user selecting the quickfind icon via a keypress of the quickfind button a quickfind mode is invoked whereby the EPG screen of is replaced e.g. refreshed with the EPG screen shown in the composite diagram of . Additionally in some embodiments the channel row and time row locations corresponding to the row and column areas of the grid from which the block was highlighted just prior to when the quickfind mode was invoked are each highlighted. For instance the 11 30 slot in the time row and channel from the channel list are highlighted corresponding to the block that was highlighted in the EPG screen to just prior the time when the quickfind mode was invoked. In some embodiments the highlight is omitted. Note that although highlighting is described herein as a mechanism to distinguish a selection located in one area of the EPG screen from other areas of the screen other mechanisms of distinction may be used as should be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art.

In the EPG screen e.g. responsive to commencement of the quickfind mode the program information previously displayed in the screen of as program titles and descriptive text is omitted in the screen as are various program guide specific information such as the grid lines beyond the channel list and replaced with a quickfind information area or also referred to as information area that occupies the body of the grid less the list of channel identifiers and time row . In one embodiment the quickfind information area comprises information pertaining to operation of a quickfind system such as explicit information or explicit instructions e.g. displayed information or instructions on the screen and or aural information or instructions as opposed to merely implied that informs or instructs a user how to use the quickfind system and how to exit or terminate the quickfind mode and return to normal scroll functionality for use with the EPG screen . Omitting the program information frees up the processor from the updating and or rendering of program information enabling the user to scroll through the channel list at a faster rate. By providing the quickfind information area the user is made aware of the enhanced scroll features of the quickfind system. Note that the content of the quickfind information may be located elsewhere in the screen in some embodiments.

Various combinations of omission can be implemented in the quickfind system to improve processor performance over that used for rendering the EPG screen i.e. over the pre quickfind mode screen . For instance in some embodiments the program information is omitted but program guide specific information such as the grid lines are retained. In some embodiments as reflected in the program information and one of the program guide specific information such as the grid lines are omitted. In some embodiments one or more of the program guide specific information can be omitted in addition to the program information such as channel logos operator logos time and date information video still image or images and or graphics e.g. icons . Note that in some embodiments the choice of which features of the EPG screen to omit in response to invocation of the quickfind mode can be configured by a user such as via a configuration screen.

Once the quickfind mode is commenced the user is instructed to scroll by using an appropriate remote control scroll key or simply scroll key such as the arrow keys e.g. navigation keys which enables scrolling line by line or keys e.g. page keys which enables scrolling page by page to quickly scroll to a channel or time. Scrolling may be implemented by the user pecking at the appropriate scroll key and or using the Turboscroll feature implemented by several manufacturers. In Turboscroll a single prolonged depression of the appropriate scroll key provides for several initial low frequency e.g. 1 Hz scroll advances line by line or page by page depending on the scroll key used followed by a high frequency a scroll advance e.g. 10 Hz . Noteworthy is the fact that contrary to the Turboscroll or other conventional scroll mechanisms despite the release of the appropriate scroll key the scroll mode i.e. quickfind mode does not terminate but continues until deliberately terminated by the user through the use e.g. activation of a separate key from that used to scroll.

Once the user has found the desired channel and or time the user presses a designated button or key on the remote control device e.g. SELECT or others not shown such as Exit OK etc. that is separate from the scroll key. In some embodiments the user terminates the quickfind mode by directing or manipulating a displayed cursor to a selectable icon displayed on the EPG screen to exit or terminate the quickfind mode and returns to the full guide view e.g. EPG screen which is fully populated with the program information and program guide specific information. By requiring a separate keypress to terminate the quickfind mode the user is not burdened in wasted time or effort with recommencing the enhanced scroll features if needed upon releasing the appropriate scroll keys.

As explained above the quickfind system provides several benefits over conventional scroll systems and methods. For instance the presentation of the quickfind icon and the quickfind information area upon commencement of the quickfind mode raises awareness of the advanced scroll features providing for consumer satisfaction in utilization of available features and a user friendly environment. In contrast in conventional systems that use Turboscroll the EPG screen does not make a user aware of such enhanced scroll features resulting in underutilization of available features and a customer sense of need for better performance. Additionally the commencement and termination of the quickfind mode is accomplished through deliberate key presses of distinct keys e.g. scroll keys are distinct from termination keys the enabling of speed scrolling continuing e.g. the mode continuing irrespective of whether the user releases e.g. terminates the depression or activation of the scroll key. In Turboscroll release of the appropriate scroll key terminates the scroll feature. If a user seeks to recommence Turboscroll the user must follow the sequence of the initial slow advance followed by the high frequency advance. In other words the user is burdened with added time and inconvenience in re commencing enhanced scroll features or advanced navigation features if there is a deliberate or inadvertent release of the Turboscroll key.

The EPG screens shown in are exemplary and hence not intended to be limiting. That is variations of the EPG screen in the quickfind mode are contemplated to be within the scope of the disclosure. For instance shows a composite diagram that illustrates one example EPG screen having a different format than that shown in whereby the quickfind information area and the column or list of channel identifiers switch locations. In other words the channel identifiers are centrally located in the grid and the quickfind information area is located on the left hand side of the grid.

Additionally it is noted that the screens described above will be similarly configured when speed scrolling in the quickfind mode across different time slots e.g. information area as described above yet with the time slots advancing or retreating within a day or across plural days .

In view of the above description it should be appreciated that one method embodiment shown in comprises providing a first electronic program guide EPG screen having a plurality of channel identifiers program information and an icon corresponding to increasing scroll speed and responsive to a user selection corresponding to the icon enabling a user to scroll among the plurality of channel identifiers at the increased scroll speed .

The flow diagram of shows the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of the EPG application . In this regard each block represents a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in . For example two blocks shown in succession in may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved as will be further clarified hereinbelow.

The EPG application can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment s the EPG application is implemented in software or firmware e.g. application software that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment some or all of the functionality of the quickfind features of the EPG application may be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The EPG application which comprise an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations merely setting forth a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially in principle. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and protected by the following claims.

