---

title: Methods for integrating a functional component into a microfluidic device
abstract: Injection molding is used to form microfluidic devices with integrated functional components. One or more functional components are placed in a mold cavity, which is then closed. Molten thermoplastic resin is injected into the mold and then cooled, thereby forming a solid substrate including the functional component(s). The solid substrate including the functional component(s) is then bonded to a second substrate, which may include microchannels or other features.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08808588&OS=08808588&RS=08808588
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08808588
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080204
---
This application is a divisional application of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 754 286 originally filed Jan. 8 2004 entitled Microfluidic Structures and Methods for integrating a Functional Component into a Microfluidic Device and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 351 380 on Apr. 1 2008. This application and patent are incorporated by reference in their entirety and for any purpose.

This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

The present invention relates to microfluidic devices and more particularly to integrating functional components into microfluidic devices.

Microfluidic devices are increasingly used to manipulate and handle small fluid volumes for reactive analytical sensing and other applications. Although microfluidic devices contain features on the microscale such as channels and chambers the devices frequently must interact with other external devices or assemblies. For example microfluidic devices may require connection to a larger fluid source or integration with a sensor pumping or other external assembly.

One approach to this integration involves securing discrete functional components such as flow connectors to a microfluidic device using an adhesive. However adhering each component in this manner may limit the pressure that can be applied before leakage occurs between the component and the device substrate. Alignment errors may also be introduced as each component is independently adhered to the device substrate. Further this technique limits the components that may be attached to the device to those that are chemically compatible with the adhesive used to attach them.

There is therefore a need to improve the technology used to form connections between a microfluidic device and an external component as well as to increase the range of functional components that can be connected to a microfluidic device.

There is also a desire to provide a method for rapidly forming microfluidic replicates in a manner that incorporates the needed functional components during the replication process.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention a method for integrating a functional component to a microfluidic device is provided. A functional component is placed into a predetermined location in a mold cavity. Resin is injected into the mold cavity and cooled thereby forming a solid substrate containing the functional component which is bonded to a second substrate to form the functional microfluidic device. The second substrate in some embodiments contains at least one microfluidic channel.

In accordance with a second aspect of the invention a microfluidic device is provided A functional component is embedded in a solid substrate in a predetermined location. A second substrate is bonded to the solid substrate such that the functional component imparts electrical optical mechanical or other functionality to the device.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods for integrating a functional component into a microfluidic device. A functional component as used herein refers generally to any component of interest that may be advantageously integrated with a second substrate to form a functional device as described further below. In some embodiments the functional component provides electrical mechanical optical or other functionality to a microfluidic device. Accordingly functional components include flow connectors circuits or other electronic chips or devices optical waveguides fiber optic cables lenses RF transmitters or receivers flow detectors flow regulators other sensors or transducers laser diodes light emitting diodes pressure transducers optical filters optical elements reservoirs electrodes salt bridges membranes flow valves high voltage power supplies and the like. Such functional components may be fabricated from a wide range of polymeric metal or ceramic materials. Substantially any component suitable to withstand the injection molding process described below may be used as a functional component as described herein.

Functional components useful in embodiments of the present invention include for example polymer fittings and flow connectors described further in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 405 842 filed 2 Apr. 2003 entitled Micromanifold Assembly and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 405 204 filed 2 Apr. 2003 entitled High Pressure Capillary Connector all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Injection molding machines may be vertically clamping or horizontally clamping as is known in the art and either may be used. Vertically clamping machines are advantageous in embodiments of the present invention. In some embodiments horizontally clamping machines require use of other fixtures to prevent the functional components from falling out of the mold. In some embodiments the mold base defining the cavity has more than two pieces the top and the top as shown in . Generally any equipment suitable for injection molding may be used.

The mold cavity may be of substantially any size or shape suitable for the molding process and may include tooling to introduce molded features such as microfluidic channels or chambers. The mold cavity may also include depressions or protrusions which can be used to position and fixture the functional components that are placed within the mold cavity prior to resin injection as shown in . The depressions or protrusions are positioned to hold the functional components in place in a predetermined location such that when bonded with a second substrate functionality is added to the resultant device. Depending on the functional components used the functionality added may be electrical optical mechanical or other functionality. Such cavity features may be contained in either the top or the bottom of the mold base. Upon sealing of the mold cavity the inserted functional components are sealed or pressed against the opposing surfaces of the mold cavity . This provides fixturing of the components and also seals any channels within components such as fluidic connectors from being filled by injected resin. For example in the embodiment shown in flow connectors shown in are present in the sealed mold cavity. The lip of the flow connectors is pressed against the top while the other end of the connectors is pressed into a depression in another surface of the cavity thus limiting or preventing resin from filling a channel within the flow connector. In some embodiments a compliant shim or gasket not shown may be placed between the functional component and the mold cavity to prevent damage to the flow connector and or to enhance the seal between the functional component and the mold.

While the mold cavity depressions and protrusions described above may be machined directly into the mold base forming the mold cavity in some embodiments a cavity tool which provide the required depressions protrusions or other features which allow positioning and fixturing of the added functional components is placed in the mold cavity . Such cavity tools may also contain microfluidic features such as channels and chambers. In some embodiments the cavity tool is removable. In some embodiments the cavity tool is removable such that the mold base may be used without the cavity tool or another cavity tool placed in the mold base. The cavity tool may generally be made of any material suitable to withstand the injection molding process including for example metals such as steel.

Injection molding proceeds as is known in the art and shown in by injecting resin into the mold cavity . Any resin suitable for injection molding may be used. Typical thermoplastic resins include acrylics polyolefins polycarbonates polyesters and many others. In some embodiments thermosets are used. Of interest in many microfluidic applications are optically transparent resins including cyclic olefin copolymers such as ethylene norbornene copolymers and dicyclopentadiene copolymers and others. The particular resin chosen will depend on the application the materials of the functional components used and the material of the second substrate to which the substrate containing the functional components will be bonded. In some embodiments the functional components used are formed from one or more polymeric materials having a glass transition or melting point temperature higher than the glass transition temperature of the polymer resin used to form the substrate in the injection molding process. However in other embodiments the functional component may not have a glass transition temperature higher than that of the resin and the difference in thermal properties between a functional component and the resin may be advantageously used to increase the strength of the interaction between the resin and the component. In some embodiments the functional component is made from or coated with the same resin used in the injection molding process. Accordingly as is known in the art during injection molding molten resin is injected into a mold and as it cools forms a solid substrate.

In a preferred embodiment a commercially available vertical injection molding machine was used such as the TH60 VSE from Nissei America Inc. Anaheim Calif. A custom mold base was designed and fabricated which allowed cavity tool inserts to be placed in either side of the mold base . The use of cavity tool inserts also allows adjustments in the depth of the cavity .

As shown in the resin in the mold cavity forms a solid substrate including the functional components . The solid substrate is then removed from the mold cavity . As shown in the solid substrate including the functional components is bonded to a second substrate . The bonding occurs through any of a variety of methods known in the art including fusion bonding adhesives and the like.

The second substrate may be made of any of a variety of materials according to embodiments of the present invention including for example polymers such as thermoplastics or elastomers metals such as steel titanium gold aluminum semiconductors such as silicon or GaAs and insulators such as glass quartz silicon dioxide and the like. The particular substrate selected will depend on the application the features in the substrate the resin used in the injection molding process and the functional components contemplated. The second substrate to which the injection molded substrates are bonded may have a variety of features in accordance with embodiments of the invention including for example one or more mixers pumps valves heaters coolers channels chambers fluid ports and the like.

By way of summary a method of forming an integrated microfluidic device according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown in . A mold base defining at least one cavity is provided see step . An interchangeable cavity tool may be placed in a mold base or the mold cavity tooling may be an integral part of the mold base in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At least one functional component is placed in the mold cavity and or into a depression defined by the mold base step . Resin is injected into the mold cavity step . The resin is cooled thereby forming a solid substrate including the functional component step which can be removed from the mold cavity. The solid substrate including the functional component is then bonded to a second substrate step . In some embodiments further components may be connected to the bonded device. For example in one embodiment the flow connector is incorporated into an injection molded solid substrate and bonded to a second substrate having a microchannel such that access to the microchannel is provided through the flow connector . Accordingly tubing and an external pump may be attached to one or more of the flow connectors in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. For example in a preferred embodiment the flow connector is attached to a silica capillary tube by a compression fitting that is attached by screws not shown to the flow connector.

A top down view of a device according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown schematically in . A microchannel is provided in a microfluidic substrate having an inlet and outlet. A second microchannel is also provided in the microfluidic substrate with a second inlet and outlet. A cavity tool is machined to hold flow connectors in positions complementary to the inlets and outlets of the microchannels and . The flow connectors incorporated into an injection molded substrate as described above and bonded to the substrate containing the microchannels and such that the flow connectors are aligned with the microchannel inlets and outlets. Accordingly as shown in fluid enters and exits either the microchannel or the microchannel through the flow connectors . In a similar manner other types of functional components may be aligned to features such as electrodes optically transparent regions thermally conductive regions and the like of a second substrate.

After the injection molded substrate has been formed it is bonded with a second substrate. In some embodiments the bond forms a watertight seal and will allow for the successful operation of a microfluidic device. The bonding process typically involves an alignment step in some embodiments of the two substrates one with the flow connectors the other containing the channel to allow access to the microfluidic features. In some embodiments no alignment is necessary. After properly aligned if necessary the two substrates are bonded together to produce a functioning microfluidic device. The bonding process may include hot die bonding thermal diffusion bonding solvent bonding infrared welding ultraviolet irradiation ultrasonic welding or other joining technologies known in the art or combinations thereof. In some embodiments an adhesive seal or gasket is placed between the two substrates.

Embodiments of devices according to the present invention are able to operate at increased pressures relative to those having functional components adhesively bonded with epoxies or other adhesive materials to the surface. For example in the embodiment shown schematically in fluid can be pumped through the channel or the channel at a pressure typically in the range of 100 970 psi. In other embodiments a lower pressure is used. A similar device utilizing a flow connector adhesively bonded to the surface withstood only a pressure of about 680 psi.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

