---

title: Systems and methods for event-based provisioning of elevated system privileges
abstract: Methods and systems for providing elevated system access to users based on an alert from a monitoring tool or a request for change (RFC). Using the alert or RFC information, a provisioning server may reference the name of an impacted system against a database of privileges needed to allow elevated access to that system. The provisioning server may then initiate a task to provision a user's existing ID or a new ID with the necessary elevated privileges. Once the person closes the alert or RFC, the provisioning server may then remove access for that person, thus providing indirect and temporary access to a company's IT infrastructure and business applications without the use of a group ID or other mechanism to affect repairs on the impacted system(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185550&OS=08185550&RS=08185550
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08185550
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081006
---
This application is related in subject matter to and incorporates herein by reference in its entirety each of the following U.S. patent application entitled Systems and Methods for Event Based Provisioning of Elevated System Privileges Ser. No. 12 245 844 filed on even date and U.S. patent application entitled Systems and Methods for Event Based Provisioning of Elevated System Privileges Ser. No. 12 245 846 also filed on even date.

Companies often engage the services of third party contractors to fill their IT information technology and technical support needs. This use of outside technical support personnel may be necessitated by a number of reasons including restrictions on new hires within a company a specific efficiency or technical expertise of the outside personnel inconvenient or undesirable working hours e.g. evening or holiday shifts and the like.

To perform their services however the outside technical support personnel are typically granted elevated access privileges to the company s IT infrastructure and business applications including computer systems networks programs and the like. Unfortunately granting outside technical support personnel access to a company s IT infrastructure and business applications can create a number of risks such as lost and or stolen data unauthorized access to critical and or highly sensitive systems and the like. Indeed many of the same risks may exist to some degree even with the company s own internal technical support personnel.

Methods and systems for providing elevated system access to users based on an event within a computing infrastructure. Using information associated with the event a provisioning server may reference the name of an impacted system against a database of privileges needed to allow elevated access to that system. The provisioning server may then initiate a task to provision a user s existing ID or a new ID with the necessary elevated privileges. Depending on a severity of the event the task may be initiated automatically through a push process or in a queued pull fashion. After the event has been handled or upon expiration of a maintenance window the provisioning server may then remove access for that person s user ID thus providing indirect and temporary access to a company s IT infrastructure and business applications without the use of a group ID or other mechanism to affect repairs on the impacted system s .

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

The drawings described above and the written description of specific structures and functions below are not presented to limit the scope of what has been invented or the scope of the appended claims. Rather the drawings and written description are provided to teach any person skilled in the art to make and use the innovations for which patent protection is sought. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that not all features of a commercial implementation of the innovations are described or shown for the sake of clarity and understanding.

As will be described in detail below elevated system access may be provided to users based on an input set e.g. an alert from a monitoring tool or a request for change RFC . Using alert or RFC information e.g. an impacted system and person assigned a provisioning server may reference the name of the impacted system against a database of privileges needed to allow elevated access to that system. The provisioning server may then initiate a task to provision a user s existing ID or a new ID with the necessary elevated privileges. Once the person closes the alert or RFC the provisioning server may then remove access for that user ID.

Turning now to an exemplary infrastructure is shown that is capable of being used to control access to a company s IT infrastructure and business applications including computer systems networks and software programs. The infrastructure may be used to limit or control access by granting to the third party technical support personnel only indirect and temporary access to the computer systems networks and software applications. Where applicable the infrastructure may also be used to limit access by the company s own internal technical support personnel. Accordingly all third party as well as internal company technical support personnel are henceforth referred to herein simply as technical support personnel. 

In some implementations the exemplary infrastructure may include an area called an access control center ACC from which access to the company s IT infrastructure and business applications may be controlled. Such an ACC may be for example a secure room or other enclosed area within the company where the technical support personnel may enter in order to access to the company s IT infrastructure and business applications. Physical entry to the ACC may then be restricted using available security measures including badges key cards bio scans and the like. However such physical security measures may not be needed if the identities of the technical support personnel are verifiable in other ways for example through user IDs passwords access codes and the like. These latter forms of verification are particularly useful where the ACC is located at a remote or offsite location for example another city state or country where it may be difficult for the company to implement and maintain control over physical security measures.

Within the ACC a plurality of computing terminals may be provided including one or more incident manager terminals service desk terminals and thin client terminals . The term incident is used herein to refer to any IT event or condition unexpected or otherwise that may adversely impact an important operation of the company and therefore requires immediate resolution by the technical support personnel. Such an incident typically includes major malfunctions for example a suddenly slow or unresponsive Web site dropped network connections loss of access to databases and the like. However an incident may also include minor operational glitches that while not requiring immediate resolution still need to be resolved at some point. Thus as used herein an incident may include any IT event or condition whether major or minor that requires the attention of the technical support personnel.

Referring to the incident manager terminals these terminals may be used by authorized individuals referred to herein as incident managers to manage the technical support personnel of the ACC . The incident managers generally are responsible for receiving notice of an incident gathering any information needed about the incident then assigning the appropriate technical support personnel to work on the incident. To this end the incident manager terminals may be general purpose computers with full functionality e.g. hard drives CD ROM drives etc. and a full set of the software applications used in the company e.g. e mail word processor database tools spreadsheet Web browser etc. as shown in . This allows the incident managers to perform their functions with maximum flexibility and functionality.

The service desk involves provisioning of IT services and is typically the first contact a business user has with their IT services when something does not work as expected. The service desk may provide a single point of contact for each business user. The service desk may participate in incident control and communication. Some service desks provide a basic call logging function and escalate calls to more experienced and trained IT services staff while others provide a greater business and technical knowledge with the ability to solve most incidents at the time that the business user reports them.

The thin client terminals may be used by the technical support personnel as remote desktops to perform the actual work needed to resolve an incident. The thin client terminals may be dedicated computers that have mainly Web browsing and remote desktop functionality. Such thin client terminals may be software based thin clients hardware based thin clients or a combination of both. Access to the company s IT infrastructure and business applications may then be provided through the thin client terminals on a per incident basis. In this way the technical support personnel may still access the company s IT infrastructure and business applications but with minimal risk to the security of the infrastructure and business applications.

A gateway server may operate as a proxy between a provisioning server and a credentials database . When technical support personnel are assigned to incidents the provisioning server may confirm the identities of the technical support personnel. The provisioning server may perform this confirmation for example by communicating with an authentication server which may be any suitable directory server e.g. Microsoft Active Directory to obtain verification of the identities of the technical support personnel.

Similarly when user IDs passwords or other credentials for the company s IT infrastructure and business applications are needed the provisioning server may obtain these credentials from the credentials database . The provisioning server may also provide or otherwise cause these credentials to be provided directly to the IT infrastructure and business applications so that no intervention by the technical support personnel is needed.

A configuration management database CMDB may be provided as a repository of all information related to components within the infrastructure or external to the infrastructure but under supervision of the IT infrastructure. The CMDB may be provided to store data relating to the organization s management of its IT services including data that relates to the maintenance movement and incidents of each configuration item. The CMDB is not limited to this type of data but also may store additional information about other types of items on which the organization s IT Services depend including hardware software personnel and documentation. The CMDB includes the ability to trend incidents and or to see what the impacts are from certain changes.

Access to the company s IT infrastructure and business applications may be provided through the virtual desktops . Such virtual desktops may be implemented using any suitable computing systems that are capable of supporting one or more virtual terminals for example one or more Windows Unix or Linux workstations servers or other similar computing systems. These virtual desktops may then be used to open remote access sessions to the company s IT infrastructure and business applications depicted in as one or more production development and or test systems . As used herein a production system is a system or application that has already been released and is fully operational and accessible by its intended users. A development system is a system or application that is currently undergoing development and design.

In some implementations the technical support personnel may not be allowed to acquire or otherwise know the user IDs passwords and other credentials being used to access the production development and or test systems by other users systems or administrative users e.g. root . Instead the user IDs associated with each of the technical support personnel may be temporarily granted a set of privileges and or access rights to systems impacted by an incident based on a determination of the impacted system and the privileges access necessary to correct the impacted system. A user ID associated with one of the technical support personnel may be granted elevated privileges by the provisioning server in accordance with information in the credentials database and CMDB . In some implementations a new user ID may be created having the elevated privileges. The new user ID may exist for only as long as the ticket referencing the incident is open after which the new user ID would no longer be valid or have the access privileges revoked.

In general operation after being assigned to work on a given incident by an incident manager one of the technical support personnel may use his her thin client terminal to access a particular production development and or test system through a virtual desktop . The technical support person may then perform through the thin client terminal and the virtual desktop various tasks needed on the production development and or test system to resolve the incident.

Note in the foregoing that while a single technical support person may be assigned to any given incident it is also possible for multiple technical support personnel to be assigned to the same incident so that more than one technical support personnel may be given access to the same production development and or test system albeit through different thin client terminals and virtual desktops . One or more databases may then be set up to record and track which user IDs and passwords are being used by which technical support personnel on which production development and or test system for which incidents and so forth.

The core relational database also may serve as a repository for interrelationships among the data sources and . These interrelationships may be assigned manually or automatically using network aware devices that determine relationships based on communication and interaction between the data sources and . In addition these relationships among the various components of computer network may be established using existing processes.

Also information about the data sources and may be provided to core relational database from the data sources themselves. For example data source may indicate to core relational database such information for example as the number of processors on a particular computer terminal or server the type of such processors and the number and type of databases that are on a particular database server. Also information may be obtained with regard to software applications on a computer terminal or server. In the examples core relational database manages the interrelations of data sources among each other and with CMDBs . . . may be for example.

The core relational database also may function to take the various components of the configuration infrastructure and manage relationships with those components as they relate to actual and identified business processes dictated by the business practice. Also core relational database may be able to use existing processes and configuration item characteristics to aggregate existing repositories of information held in independent data sources. As a result of core relational database configuration management and the other components of an ITIL framework may be capable of identifying an impact of a particular modification change or addition of a configurable item down to the level of a business process.

The access control module may operate to control access to the production development and or test systems . For example the access control module may maintain a list access privileges assigned to certain user IDs and passwords for certain systems components within the infrastructure . Varying levels of access may be maintained based on affected systems and in the incident.

The credentials manager may operate to retrieve any user IDs passwords and other credentials needed to access the production development and or test systems . The credentials manager may perform this function by connecting to the credentials database and looking up the credentials for the production development and or test systems to be accessed by the technical support personnel.

In some implementations the access control module and the credentials manager may maintain a mapping of the user ID of the assigned technical support personnel with the access privileges necessary to affect repairs corrections to components within the infrastructure such that the assigned technical support personnel may initiate repairs on such affected systems components. Such an arrangement hides the credentials from technical support personnel and therefore the likelihood of misuse is reduced.

The logging tracking module operates to record the activities of the technical support personnel on the thin client terminals the virtual desktops and the production development and or test systems . In some implementations the recording may be a full session capture of all activities carried out by the technical support personnel e.g. keystroke logging etc. .

At the service desk opens a ticket based on the input from . The ticket may be opened in a helpdesk automation ticketing system as is known in the art. This information may be entered manually such as when an end user calls the service desk or entered automatically in the form of a trouble ticket based on a system monitor detecting a fault.

At the ticket is entered into the system and the ticket queue and or ticketing system operates to populate information into the ticket based on information received and external rules. For example if a monitor detected a problem on a critical business service the appropriate high severity is assigned to the ticket. Likewise if a user called in to report a problem with his her email the appropriate systems could be identified by querying external sources to determine what possible systems could lead to the symptoms described. A lower severity will be assigned. Automatically populating this information helps to ensure that the ticket is properly routed to the individual group that is responsible for return to service for the given problem.

At a severity is determined based on the rules implemented at . A decision may be made to push or pull the ticket. For example a ticket designated as high severity would be a push. As such in some implementations it may be routed to a technical support person i.e. resource in the appropriate group for immediate resolution. This would be an available resource with the necessary expertise to correct the problem. Thus the process for a push would continue at where a provisioning server process is performed.

At based on the systems and privileges identified the provisioning server grants access to the user ID of the resource to which the ticket is assigned. The provisioning server may note all actions to grant access in the ticket for audit purposes. At and throughout the process access may be tied to a user s specific identity and not a shared account. In this way it is easy to discern responsibility when reviewing log files or any audit trails. The need to share a group account is therefore avoided.

Referring again to at once access is provisioned the user identified as being responsible is notified of the ticket. Based on the operation of the provisioning sever at the user now possess the needed privileges to work on the ticket at .

If at the ticket is a low severity ticket it would be designated a pull. At the pull ticket may be dropped into a specified queue for the group responsible for the system. The ticket would then be worked based on resource availability. In this way critical issues take priority over non critical issues. Because the pull ticket is an action not designated as severe this ticket may be worked by the next available resource at their earliest convenience within a given window. An example of this could be scheduled maintenance and other events of low impact. These tickets wait in a queue until picked up by the next available resource with access to the queue.

Typically users assigned to a given queue are responsible for monitoring the queue and performing the work assigned to their queue. Thus when a user decides to take responsibility for a ticket in the queue at the provisioning server process at is executed to provide the user with the necessary elevated privileges to resolve the symptoms noted in the ticket. At the user works on the trouble ticket.

At in either scenario the user either finishes the work and closes the ticket or the maintenance window noted in the ticket expires. As such access to the systems is de provisioned based on information documented in the ticket by the provisioning server . For example at the provisioning server may read the audit trail in the ticket and remove the elevated privileges assigned at .

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary implementations may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

