---

title: Film forming dental compositions and related methods
abstract: Film forming dental compositions comprising a compound of formula (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a binder. The film forming dental compositions can include an amino sugar, a derivative of an amino sugar, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and can be useful in inhibiting biofilm formation in an oral cavity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08329674&OS=08329674&RS=08329674
owner: 3M Innovative Properties Company
number: 08329674
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080710
---
This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2008 069628 filed Jul. 10 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 951 758 filed Jul. 25 2007 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to dental compositions and more specifically to film forming dental compositions and methods to inhibit biofilm formation in the oral cavity of a subject.

Dental plaque which may include bacteria such as comprises a biofilm that forms on surfaces in the oral cavity. Dental plaque is at least partly responsible for dental caries gingivitis and periodontal diseases. Bacteria in dental plaque metabolize carbohydrates for example simple sugars in the mouth and produce acids that can etch tooth enamel. The dentin thus exposed can then be colonized by bacteria. Dental plaque can serve as a substrate for the deposition of tartar or calculus. Build up of calculus can lead to gingivitis and ultimately to periodontal disease. A currently available method to remove dental plaque from teeth is mechanical removal with for example dental floss or a toothbrush. A toothbrush can aid in removing dental plaque from exposed surfaces of a tooth and dental floss can aid in removing dental plaque from for example interproximal and subgingival surfaces. Proper and regular use of dental floss and a toothbrush can mechanically remove or reduce dental plaque and can reduce the incidence of dental caries gingivitis and periodontal disease. Certain antimicrobial formulations are available in the form of mouthwashes rinses and toothpastes for example to aid in the control and treatment of dental plaque dental caries gingivitis and periodontal disease.

As noted above proper and regular use of dental floss and a toothbrush can reduce dental plaque and the incidence of dental caries. However dental floss and a toothbrush are not always used properly and regularly. Moreover a biofilm matrix such as dental plaque may contribute to the isolation of bacteria from the protective effect of antimicrobial compounds and thus may interfere with the function of antimicrobial formulations such as mouthwashes rinses and toothpastes. As a result alternative methods to control or prevent dental plaque rather than to mechanically remove it are desirable. Thus we recognize that there is a need for compositions and methods to inhibit the formation of biofilms particularly in the oral cavity.

In one aspect the present invention provides a dental composition comprising a at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

In some embodiments NRRmay be an amino group in which Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom and an alkyl group. In some embodiments NRRmay be a carboxamido or a sulfonamido group in which Ris C O Ror SOR respectively and Ris a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group. In certain embodiments Ris C O Ror SOR and Ris an alkyl group having about one to about twenty carbon atoms. In some embodiments NRRmay be a carboximido group in which Rand Rare each C O R. In some embodiments NRRmay be a sulfonimido group in which Rand Rare each SOR. In certain embodiments Rmay be C O Rand Rmay be SOR. In various embodiments Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of an alkyl group an aryl group and an aralkyl group. In some embodiments Ris a phosphate ester group OP O OH . In other embodiments Ris a sulfate ester group OSOH. In some embodiments Ris NRR. When Ris NRR Rand Rmay independently be selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom and an alkyl group Rand Rmay be OH and Rmay be either OH or OP O OH . In some embodiments R R and Rare OH.

The dental composition may be a therapeutic dental composition. The dental composition is a biofilm inhibiting composition i.e. it is useful for inhibiting the formation of biofilms. The composition is particularly useful for inhibiting the formation of dental plaque and more particularly for inhibiting the formation of dental plaque in an oral cavity of a subject.

The binder component of the composition can comprise any polymer including a film forming polymer. The binder component may comprise at least one of an addition polymer and a condensation polymer. In some embodiments the binder may be an acrylic polymer a vinyl polymer an epoxy polymer a polyurea a polyester a polyanhydride a polyurethane or combinations thereof. Typically the binder comprises an acrylic polymer i.e. a polymer formed by polymerization or copolymerization of at least one ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid.

In certain implementations of the invention the dental composition may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as ethanol. In one embodiment the carrier comprises water. In addition the dental composition may optionally comprise a flavoring agent a coloring agent or both.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting biofilm formation on a surface of the oral cavity of a subject comprising the steps of 1 providing a composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a binder wherein the composition is a film forming composition and 2 applying the composition to a surface in the oral cavity of a subject. Typically the subject is a human or a non human animal or mammal. The applying step may include immersing inserting rinsing spraying brushing swabbing or combinations thereof. The method can include in some embodiments applying the composition to a hard surface e.g. a tooth in the oral cavity.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a kit comprising 1 a composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a binder wherein the composition is a film forming composition and 2 an application accessory. The application accessory can be a container a sprayer a brush a swab a tray or combinations thereof.

This summary is not intended to describe each and every embodiment or implementation of the present invention. Further embodiments features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description thereof and from the claims.

In several places throughout the application guidance is provided through lists of examples which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.

The terms comprises and variations thereof do not have a limiting meaning where these terms appear in the description and claims 

Any recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. 

The terms a an the at least one and one or more are used interchangeably. Thus for example a composition that comprises a compound of Formula I can be interpreted to mean that the composition includes one or more compounds of Formula I 

The term film forming refers to a property of a compound binder polymer or composition wherein the compound binder polymer or composition is in the form of a substantially continuous film when substantially free of solvent or carrier 

The term therapeutic refers to preventing ameliorating treating improving or curing a disease or condition 

The term acrylic polymer refers to a polymer formed by polymerization or copolymerization of at least one ester of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid 

The term hard surface refers to a surface in the oral cavity comprising hard material such as bone dental enamel dentin and dental restorations and

The term dental restorations refers to fillings inlays onlays veneers temporary and permanent crowns or bridges implants or orthodontic devices such as brackets or archwires.

In one aspect the dental composition of the invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

It is recognized that the compounds of Formula I comprise chiral carbon atoms. For simplicity in Formula I the stereochemical configuration about each of the chiral carbon atoms is not specified. It is intended that Formula I as used in this description and in the claims represents each of the compounds having any of the possible stereochemical configurations.

In Formula I at least one of R R R and Ris NRR. R R and Rare independently selected from the group consisting of OH and NRR. Each of R R and Rmay be OH any two of R R and Rmay be OH or any one of R R and Rmay be OH. Each of R R and Rmay be NRR any two of R R and Rmay be NRR or any one of R R and Rmay be NRR. Ris selected from the group consisting of OH OP O OH OSOH and NRR. In some embodiments Ris OH. In other embodiments Ris OP O OH . In other embodiments Ris OSOH. In other embodiments Ris NRR.

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom an alkyl group C O R and SOR. Each of Rand Rmay be a hydrogen atom each of Rand Rmay be an alkyl group each of Rand Rmay be C O R or each of Rand Rmay be SOR. In some embodiments Rmay be a hydrogen atom and Rmay be an alkyl group C O R or SOR. In other embodiments Rmay be an alkyl group and Rmay be C O R or SOR. In still other embodiments Rmay be C O R and Rmay be SOR. When either or both of Rand Ris an alkyl group the alkyl group may comprise about one carbon atom more than about one carbon atom more than about two carbon atoms more than about four carbons atoms more than about six carbon atoms more than about eight carbon atoms more than about ten carbon atoms more than about twelve carbon atoms more than about fourteen carbon atoms more than about sixteen carbon atoms or more than about eighteen carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl group comprises less than about thirty carbon atoms less than about twenty six carbon atoms or less than about twenty carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl group comprises a straight chain alkyl group. In other embodiments the alkyl group comprises a branched alkyl group. In still other embodiments the alkyl group comprises a cyclic alkyl group. When each of Rand Rcomprises an alkyl group Rand Rmay comprise the same alkyl group or Rand Rmay comprise different alkyl groups. Non limiting examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl 1 propyl iso propyl butyl iso butyl sec butyl pentyl iso pentyl neo pentyl hexyl 2 ethylhexyl octyl decyl undecyl dodecyl tetradecyl pentadecyl octadecyl cyclohexyl 4 methylcyclohexyl cyclohexylmethyl cyclopenyl and cyclooctyl.

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of an alkyl group an aryl group or an aralkyl group. When either or both of Ror Ris an alkyl group the alkyl group may comprise about one carbon atom more than about one carbon atom more than about two carbon atoms more than about four carbons atoms more than about six carbon atoms more than about eight carbon atoms or more than about ten carbon atoms more than about twelve carbon atoms more than about fourteen carbon atoms more than about sixteen carbon atoms or more than about eighteen carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl group comprises less than about thirty carbon atoms less than about twenty six carbon atoms less than about twenty two carbon atoms or less than about twenty carbon atoms. In some embodiments the alkyl group comprises a straight chain alkyl group. In other embodiments the alkyl group comprises a branched alkyl group. In still other embodiments the alkyl group comprises a cyclic alkyl group. In compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof when both Rand Rgroups are present and when each of Rand Rcomprises an alkyl group Rand Rmay comprise the same alkyl group or Rand Rmay comprise different alkyl groups. Non limiting examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl 1 propyl iso propyl butyl iso butyl sec butyl pentyl iso pentyl neo pentyl hexyl 2 ethylhexyl octyl decyl undecyl dodecyl tetradecyl pentadecyl octadecyl cyclohexyl 4 methylcyclohexyl cyclohexylmethyl cyclopenyl and cyclooctyl.

When either or both of Ror Rare an aryl group the aryl group may comprise one arene ring or more than one arene ring. Arene rings may comprise up to six carbon atoms up to eight carbon atoms up to ten carbon atoms up to twelve carbon atoms up to fourteen carbon atoms up to sixteen carbon atoms or up to eighteen carbon atoms. Arene rings may comprise a heteroatom for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. If more than one arene ring is present in an aryl group the arene rings may be fused together or they may be joined by a chemical bond. In compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof when both Rand Rgroups are present and when each of Rand Rcomprises an aryl group Rand Rmay comprise the same aryl group or Rand Rmay comprise different aryl groups. Non limiting examples of aryl groups include substituted and unsubstituted phenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl 9 anthracenyl and biphenyl.

When either or both of Ror Rare an aralkyl group the aralkyl group may comprise one arene ring or more than one arene ring. The aralkyl group may comprise up to six carbon atoms up to eight carbon atoms up to ten carbon atoms up to twelve carbon atoms up to fourteen carbon atoms up to sixteen carbon atoms up to eighteen carbon atoms or up to twenty carbon atoms. If more than one arene ring is present in the aralkyl group the arene rings may be fused together or they may be joined by a chemical bond. Arene rings may comprise a heteroatom for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. In compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof when both Rand Rgroups are present and when each of Rand Rcomprises an aralkyl group Rand Rmay comprise the same aralkyl group or Rand Rmay comprise different aralkyl groups. Non limiting examples of aralkyl groups include benzyl 1 phenylethyl 2 phenylethyl 3 phenylpropyl 2 naphthylethyl and 9 anthracenylmethyl.

In some embodiments Ris NRR where Rand Rare each a hydrogen atom and R R and Rare each OH. In some embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable salts are selected from ammonium chlorides and ammonium sulfates. In some embodiments the dental composition comprises a compound of Formula II Formula III or Formula IV or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the salt comprises ammonium chlorides or ammonium sulfates.

In some embodiments Ris NRR where Rand Rare each a hydrogen atom Rand Rare each OH and Ris OP O OH . In a specific embodiment the dental composition comprises a compound of Formula V or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable salt may comprise a zwitterion.

In some embodiments Ris NRR where Ris C O R and where Ris an alkyl group having twelve carbon atoms an alkyl group having fourteen carbon atoms or an alkyl group having sixteen carbon atoms and Ris a hydrogen atom. In specific embodiments the dental composition comprises a compound of Formula VI Formula VII or Formula VIII.

In Formulae II VIII the stereochemical configuration about four of the five chiral carbon atoms in each ring are specified using the conventional notation for the bonds. The stereochemical configuration about one chiral carbon atom in each ring is not specified. It is intended that Formulae II VIII as used in this description and in the claims represent each of the compounds having any of the possible stereochemical configurations. Among the useful compounds are compounds having the common names D glucosamine D galactosamine D mannosamine D glucosamine 6 phosphate N dodecanoyl D glucosamine N tetradecanoyl D glucosamine and N hexadecanoyl D glucosamine.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include ammonium salts and phosphate salts. In some embodiments the dental composition of the invention comprises an ammonium salt. In other embodiments the dental composition comprises a phosphate salt. In certain embodiments the dental composition comprises an ammonium salt and a phosphate salt in the same compound or in different compounds. An ammonium salt may be represented as the reaction product of an acid with an amine or as the reaction product of an amine with an alkylating agent such as for example iodomethane bromoethane or benzyl bromide. A phosphate salt may be represented as the reaction product of a base with a phosphate ester wherein the phosphate ester has at least one acidic hydrogen atom.

An ammonium salt includes a protonated amine compound for example a compound of Formula I in which a NRRgroup wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group has been protonated with an inorganic acid or an organic acid.

An ammonium salt includes an alkylated amine compound for example a compound of Formula I in which a NRRgroup wherein each Rand Ris selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group has been alkylated with an alkylating agent.

An ammonium salt comprises at least one counter ion that may be an inorganic anion an organic anion or a combination of anions. A combination of anions includes a combination of more than one inorganic anion a combination of more than one organic anion or a combination of an inorganic ion and an organic anion. Inorganic ions include for example fluoride chloride bromide iodide nitrate sulfate tetrafluroborate and tetra aryl borates. Tetra aryl borates include compounds having the formula ZB where Z is an aromatic group for example a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl group. Examples of tetra aryl borates include but are not limited to tetraphenylborate tetrakis 4 methylphenyl borate tetrakis 2 methylphenyl borate tetrakis 1 3 5 trimethylphenyl borate tetrakis 4 fluorophenyl borate tetrakis pentafluorophenyl borate and tetrakis 4 trifluoromethylphenyl borate. Organic anions include for example alkanoates such as for example acetate propionate and butanoate benzoate fumarate maleate tartrate ascorbate benzenesulfonate toluenesulfonate and citrate. In some embodiments organic ions may comprise substituted or unsubstituted tropolone.

In one aspect an ammonium salt may be formed by protonation of a compound of Formula I wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom and an alkyl group with an inorganic acid an organic acid or a combination of an inorganic acid and an organic acid. In another aspect an ammonium salt may be formed by alkylation of a compound of Formula I wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of a hydrogen atom and an alkyl group with an alkylating agent. In yet another aspect an ammonium salt may be formed by an ion exchange or metathesis reaction with a previously formed ammonium salt.

A phosphate salt may comprise a deprotonated phosphate ester compound for example a compound of Formula I in which a OP O OH group has been deprotonated with a base. The base may be an inorganic base an organic base or a combination of an inorganic base and an organic base. A phosphate salt comprises at least one counter ion that may be a metal cation a non metal cation or a combination of cations. A combination of cations includes a combination of more than one metal cation a combination of more than one non metal cation or a combination of a metal cation and a non metal cation. Metal cations include for example cations of metals of Groups 1A 2A 3B 4B 5B 6B 7B 8B 11B 12B and the lanthanides. Examples of metal cations include cations of lithium sodium potassium magnesium calcium barium iron copper silver and zinc. Non metal cations include for example ammonium cations and phosphonium cations. Ammonium and phosphonium cations may comprise alkyl aralkyl or aryl groups. Examples of non metal cations include ammonium monoalkylammonium dialkylammonium trialkylammonium tetraalkylammonium monoarylammonium diarylammonium triarylammonium tetraarylammonium and tetraarylphosphonium cations.

In one aspect a phosphate salt may be formed by deprotonation of a OP O OH 2 group in a compound of Formula I with at least one base. In another aspect a phosphate salt may be formed by an ion exchange or metathesis reaction with a previously formed phosphate salt.

In some embodiments the dental composition comprises a compound comprising both an ammonium salt and a phosphate salt. In some embodiments a compound comprising both an ammonium salt and a phosphate salt may comprise a zwitterion i.e. a compound having a cation and an anion in the same molecule.

The dental composition may comprise an amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof sufficient to inhibit formation of a biofilm. In some embodiments the dental composition may comprise an amount of a compound of Formula I sufficient to inhibit the formation of a biofilm in the oral cavity of a subject. In some embodiments the dental composition may comprise an amount of a compound of Formula I sufficient to inhibit the formation of a biofilm on a hard surface in the oral cavity of a subject. In some embodiments the hard surface may comprise a tooth. In some embodiments the dental composition may comprise an amount of a compound of Formula I sufficient to inhibit the formation of a biofilm on a dental restoration. The dental composition may contain up to about forty weight percent up to about thirty weight percent up to about twenty weight percent up to about sixteen weight percent up to about twelve weight percent up to about ten weight percent up to about six weight percent up to about four weight percent up to about two weight percent or up to about one weight percent of a compound of Formula I based on the combined weights of the compound the binder and any additives such as a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier a flavoring agent or a coloring agent. The dental composition may comprise less than about ten weight percent less than about five weight percent less than about two weight percent less than about one weight percent less than about 0.6 weight percent less than about 0.4 weight percent less than about 0.2 weight percent or less than about 0.1 weight percent of a compound of Formula I based on the combined weights of the compound the binder and any additives such as a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier a flavoring agent or a coloring agent.

In some embodiments the dental composition may comprise a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof up to about 0.5 molar up to about 0.3 molar up to about 0.15 molar up to about 0.1 molar up to about 0.05 molar up to about 0.03 molar up to about 0.02 molar or up to about 0.01 molar. In certain embodiments the dental composition may comprise a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof up to about the solubility limit of the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a binder or in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In other embodiments the dental composition may comprise a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof greater than about the solubility limit of the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a binder or in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In some embodiments the dental composition may provide a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof up to about the solubility limit of the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a medium such as for example water culture broth or saliva. In certain embodiments the dental composition may provide a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof less than the solubility limit of the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a medium such as for example water culture broth or saliva. It is recognized that the solubility limit may be different in different media. As used herein the term provide a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof refers to a property of the dental composition to release or transfer to a medium such as for example water culture broth or saliva an amount of a compound or a salt thereof resulting in a concentration of the compound or a salt thereof in the medium. In some embodiments the dental composition may provide a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof up to about 0.5 molar up to about 0.3 molar up to about 0.15 molar up to about 0.1 molar up to about 0.05 molar up to about 0.03 molar up to about 0.02 molar up to about 0.01 molar up to about 0.005 molar up to about 0.002 molar or up to about 0.001 molar in a medium. In certain embodiments the dental composition may provide a concentration of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof up to about the solubility limit of the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a medium.

The dental composition may be in contact with a surface in the oral cavity for a time sufficient to inhibit biofilm formation in the oral cavity. The time may be up to about one second up to about five seconds up to about ten seconds up to about thirty seconds up to about one minute up to about two minutes up to about five minutes up to about ten minutes up to about fifteen minutes up to about thirty minutes or up to about sixty minutes. The time may be less than about one month less than about two weeks less than about one week less than about twenty four hours less than about twenty hours less than about sixteen hours less than about twelve hours less than about ten hours less than about eight hours less than about six hours less than about four hours or less than about two hours.

The dental composition may comprise an amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof sufficient to inhibit formation of a biofilm comprising at least one species of bacteria found in the oral cavity of a subject. In some embodiments the subject is a human. In other embodiments the subject is a non human animal The bacteria include for example and

The dental composition of the invention comprises a binder. The binder may provide a reservoir of a composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in an oral cavity of a subject. The composition may be released from the binder. The binder may hold a composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof on or near a surface in an oral cavity of a subject such that for example the surface may be exposed to the composition. The surface may be a hard surface e.g. that comprises a tooth. The surface may be a dental restoration. The binder may comprise an addition polymer a condensation polymer or a combination of an addition polymer and a condensation polymer. In some embodiments the binder comprises at least one of an acrylic polymer an acrylamide polymer a vinyl polymer an epoxy polymer a polyurea a polyester a polyanhydride a polysiloxane or a polyurethane. In certain embodiments the binder comprises a film forming polymer.

In some embodiments the binder comprises an acrylic polymer. Suitable acrylic polymers include polymers and copolymers of lower alkyl esters of acrylic or methacrylic acids. In this context the term lower alkyl means a straight chain cyclic or branched alkyl group comprising about one to about eight carbon atoms. Examples of lower alkyl esters of acrylic or methacrylic acid include methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate butyl acrylate isobutyl acrylate tert butyl acrylate pentyl acrylate neopentyl acrylate hexyl acrylate cyclohexyl acrylate heptyl acrylate cyclohexylmethyl acrylate octyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate isooctyl acrylate methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate propyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate isobutyl methacrylate tert butyl methacrylate pentyl methacrylate neopentyl methacrylate hexyl methacrylate cyclohexyl methacrylate heptyl methacrylate cyclohexylmethyl methacrylate octyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate and isooctyl methacrylate.

Acrylic polymers may comprise at least one higher alkyl ester of acrylic or methacrylic acid. In this context the term higher alkyl means a straight chain cyclic or branched alkyl group comprising more than about eight carbon atoms. Examples of higher alkyl esters of acrylic or methacrylic acid include decyl acrylate dodecyl acrylate tetradecyl acrylate hexadecyl acrylate octadecyl acrylate behenyl acrylate decyl methacrylate dodecyl methacrylate tetradecyl methacrylate hexadecyl methacrylate octadecyl methacrylate and behenyl methacrylate.

Acrylic polymers may comprise at least one monomer having for example an acid group a hydroxyl group or an amino group. Non limiting examples of such monomers include acrylic acid methacrylic acid 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate and 2 dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate.

Acrylic polymers may comprise at least one monomer having at least one ionic group. The ionic group may have a positive charge or a negative charge or both a positive and a negative charge. Ionic groups include for example carboxylate groups sulfonate groups ammonium groups and phosphonium groups.

Acrylic polymers may comprise at least one macromonomer. As used herein the term macromonomer refers to an oligomer or a polymer comprising at least one polymerizable group. The macromonomer may be derived from for example methyl methacrylate or styrene. Exemplary macromonomers include methacrylate terminated poly styrene and poly ethylene glycol methyl ether methacrylate available from Sigma Aldrich Co. St. Louis Mo. Acrylic polymers may comprise at least one silicone macromonomer for example a silicone macromonomer having dimethylsiloxane repeating units. Exemplary silicone macromonomers include vinyl terminated poly dimethylsiloxane and monoglycidyl ether terminated poly dimethylsiloxane available from Sigma Aldrich Co. St. Louis Mo.

Acrylic polymers may comprise at least one monomer comprising a fluorocarbon group. The fluorocarbon group may comprise a fluoroalkyl group which may be a straight chain branched or cyclic fluoroalkyl group. The fluorocarbon group may comprise a perfluoroalkyl group which may be a straight chain branched or cyclic perfluoroalkyl group. The fluorocarbon group may comprise a fluoroaryl group. The fluorocarbon group may comprise a perfluoroaryl group.

In some embodiments the binder may comprise a reactive polymer. As used herein the term reactive polymer refers to a polymer comprising at least one reactive group i.e. a group that can react to form a covalent or ionic bond with a counterpart group on the same polymer chain on another polymer chain e.g. form a crosslink on a different polymer or on a surface. A surface may include a surface in the oral cavity of a subject for example a surface of a tooth. Examples of reactive groups include ionic groups isocyanate groups alkoxysilane groups halosilane groups acylsilane groups ethylenically unsaturated groups e.g. acrylate groups methacrylate groups and vinyl groups epoxy groups hydroxy groups amino groups ammonium groups carboxy groups carboxylate groups azlactone groups and anhydride groups.

In some embodiments the binder may comprise a non reactive polymer. As used herein the term non reactive polymer refers to a polymer that is substantially free of reactive groups i.e. substantially free of groups that can react to form a covalent or ionic bond with counterpart groups on the same or another polymer chain or on a surface.

In some embodiments the binder may comprise a hydrogel. The hydrogel may comprise a thermally responsive hydrogel i.e. a hydrogel that undergoes a physical change in response to a change in temperature. Exemplary hydrogel binders are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 620 405 Oxman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 826 Ali et al. and in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0151691 Oxman et al. .

Exemplary binders are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 347 Mitra U.S. Pat. No. 5 525 648 Aasen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 607 663 Rozzi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 662 887 Rozzi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 725 882 Kumar et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 866 630 Mitra et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 876 208 Mitra et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 888 491 Mitra et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 312 668 Mitra et al. and U.S. Pat. Publication No. 2004 0185013 Burgio et al. . In certain embodiments the binder comprises a repeating unit that includes a fluoride releasing group. Fluoride releasing groups include tetrafluoroborate anions and are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 871 786 Aasen et al. .

Exemplary polysiloxane binders are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 468 477 Kumar et al. . In some embodiments the polysiloxanes are dispersible in water. In certain embodiments water dispersible siloxane polymers include those functionalized with pendant moieties that include for example carboxylic acid groups including dicarboxylic acid groups.

In some embodiments the binder may be soluble in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or solvent. In some embodiments the binder may be dispersible in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or solvent. In some embodiments the binder may be a latex or emulsion e.g. a latex or emulsion in which the carrier or the continuous phase comprises water. In certain embodiments the latex or emulsion may comprise a self emulsifying binder. In certain embodiments the latex or emulsion may comprise a surfactant.

The dental composition of the invention may comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may comprise a liquid a solid or both. In some embodiments the carrier may be a liquid at about room temperature. In other embodiments the carrier may be a solid at about room temperature. In some embodiments the carrier may be a liquid at about the temperature of the oral cavity of a human i.e. at about 37 C. In other embodiments the carrier may be a solid at about the temperature of the oral cavity of a human. Exemplary liquid carriers include water alcohols e.g. ethanol glycerol sorbitol and liquid silicones. Exemplary solid carriers include polymers such as natural rubber butyl rubber poly isobutylene elastomers styrene butadiene rubber polysaccharides and waxes e.g. beeswax .

Each non carrier component of the dental composition may independently be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in the carrier. In some embodiments at least one component of the dental composition is dissolved in the carrier. In some embodiments at least one component of the dental composition is dispersed in the carrier. In some embodiments at least one component of the dental composition is suspended in the carrier. In some embodiments at least one component of the dental composition is emulsified in the carrier.

In some embodiments the dental composition comprises a flavoring agent. In some embodiments the flavoring agent includes an agent that imparts a flavor e.g. a mint flavor to the dental composition. In some embodiments the flavoring agent includes an agent that imparts a tactile sensation e.g. a cooling sensation to the dental composition. The flavoring agent may be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in the dental composition. In some embodiments wherein the dental composition comprises a carrier the flavoring agent may be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in the carrier.

In some embodiments the dental composition comprises a coloring agent. The coloring agent can be any dye or pigment. The coloring agent may be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in the dental composition. In some embodiments wherein the dental composition comprises a carrier the coloring agent may be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in the carrier.

In some embodiments the dental composition further comprises an additive having a therapeutic property. The therapeutic property may include for example antiplaque activity anticaries activity or antimicrobial activity. In some embodiments the additive having a therapeutic property may be a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as for example ethanol. Examples of additives having anticaries activity include for example fluoride sources such as sodium fluoride and stannous flouride. Examples of additives having antimicrobial activity include glycerol esters of fatty acids e.g. glyceryl monolaurate salts of chlorhexidene e.g. chlorhexidene gluconate long chain alkyl ammonium or pyridinium salts e.g. cetylpyridinium chloride hydrogen peroxide stannous fluoride and triclosan. In some embodiments the additive may have biofilm inhibiting or biofilm disrupting activity. The additive may be an enzyme e.g. dextranase . The additive may be an essential oil. The additive may be a polymer. The additive may be a compound described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 951 761 filed on even date herewith.

The dental composition may have a form comprising a solution a dispersion a suspension an emulsion a solid a paste a foam or a gel. Any component of the dental composition may be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in any other component of the dental composition. In some embodiments the components are mutually soluble i.e. miscible with each other .

The dental composition may be formulated by combining a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with at least one other component of the composition. The compound may be combined with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. If the carrier is a liquid the compound may be dissolved dispersed suspended or emulsified in the carrier. If the carrier is a solid the compound may be combined with the carrier by for example milling or grinding. In one aspect a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be combined with other components of the composition after the other components have been combined with each other. In another aspect all of the components including a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be combined at the same time.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting biofilm formation on a surface of the oral cavity of a subject comprising the steps of 1 providing a composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a binder wherein the composition is a film forming composition and 2 applying the composition to a surface in the oral cavity of a subject. The surface in the oral cavity of a subject includes for example a buccal surface a gingival surface a tooth a dental restoration and bone. The composition may be applied to the oral cavity of a subject by for example immersing inserting rinsing spraying brushing swabbing or combinations thereof. Spraying the composition may provide the composition in the form of for example an aerosol or a fine mist. The subject may be a human or the subject may be a non human animal. Non human animals include mammals such as canines and felines.

In another aspect the invention provides a kit comprising 1 a composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a binder wherein the composition is a film forming composition and 2 an application accessory. The application accessory can be a container a sprayer a brush a swab a tray and combinations thereof. The application accessory can be any size. The kit may include more than one application accessory or more than one kind of application accessory i.e. a sprayer and a brush . The kit may also comprise instructions for using the kit.

Unless otherwise noted all compounds and reagents were or can be obtained from Sigma Aldrich Corp. St. Louis Mo.

Compounds of the dental compositions of the invention and comparative compounds were evaluated for biofilm inhibition activity. Composite dental restorative available under the trade designation FILTEK SUPREME from 3M ESPE Dental Products St. Paul Minn. was placed in a 15 millimeter by 1 millimeter stainless steel die. The open ends of the die were then covered with polyester film and the die was subjected to a pressure of 68.95 MPa using a hydraulic press. While the die containing the composite restorative was under compression the composite was irradiated for two minutes using a Model ACE light source available from SCHOTT North America Inc. Auburn N.Y. . The discs of cured composite restorative were then further cured using a Model UniXS light box available from Heraeus Kulzer Inc. Armonk N.Y. for 1.5 minutes.

The cured discs of composite restorative were then immersed in ten milliliters of culture ATCC 25175 10CFU mL prepared in brain heart infusion broth that contained 1.0 weight percent sucrose and 1 weight percent of a compound of the dental composition. The samples were incubated at 37 C. for approximately twenty hours after which time the cured discs were removed from the broth and were gently rinsed with water. Each disc was placed in a separate test tube containing five milliliters of 1M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and each test tube was then sonicated for two minutes using a model SH1012 40 8 ultrasonic generator manufactured by Branson Ultrasonics Corp. Danbury Conn. for two minutes to dislodge biofilm on the disc. The optical absorbance optical density of each aqueous sodium hydroxide solution was then measured at 550 nm using a Model ULTROSPEC III UV visible spectrophotometer manufactured by Pharmacia AB Uppsala Sweden . For each compound of the dental composition five discs were separately incubated in broth and were evaluated separately to provide five optical density measurements. The average of the five optical density measurements was then calculated. Control or comparative samples corresponding to each exemplary sample were prepared essentially as described above except that the culture in brain heart infusion broth did not contain a compound of the dental composition. The average optical density of the control or comparative samples was determined as described above. The ratio expressed as a percentage of the average optical density for each compound sample to the average optical density for a control sample was calculated by dividing the average optical density for each compound sample by the average optical density for a control sample and multiplying the result by one hundred. The ratio was considered to be proportional to the average amount of biofilm on the five cured discs i.e. relatively low average optical density ratio was considered to be indicative of inhibition of biofilm formation. The ratio for the control was 100 .

During the procedure for the Quantitative Biofilm Inhibition Test each cured disc was visually examined after it was removed from the broth and rinsed with water and before it was placed in a test tube containing five milliliters of 1M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The presence or absence of visible biofilm on a disc was noted.

Compounds of the dental compositions of the invention were evaluated for extent of bacterial kill in culture. Overnight cultures of in brain heart infusion broth 10CFU mL was mixed with a 0.1 weight percent 0.5 weight percent or 1.0 weight percent aqueous solution of each compound of the dental composition. After a period of 2 5 or 10 minutes 1.0 mL of the mixture was transferred via pipette into a first tube containing 9.0 mL of Letheen broth to provide a 10dilution. The contents of the tube were mixed using a vortex mixer. A 1.0 mL aliquot of this sample was transferred via pipette into a second tube containing 9.0 mL of Letheen broth to provide a 10dilution. A 0.1 mL aliquot of each dilution was plated and spread in duplicate on sheep blood agar in Petri dishes using a hockey stick applicator to provide 10and 10dilutions respectively on each plate. The plates were incubated at 37 C. for a period of 48 to 72 hours and then the colony forming units were counted. The CFU counts were compared and the log reduction in the counts were calculated.

The MIC Test was carried out using successively lower concentrations of compounds. Sterile tryptic soy broth 50 microliters TSB available from BD Dfico Becton Dickinson and Company Franklin Lakes N.J. was deposited into each well of a sterile polystyrene 96 well microtitcr plate. Into each well in the first leftmost column of the plate there was then deposited a 50 microliter aliquot of known concentration of a compound i.e. a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or comparative compound . A 50 microliter aliquot of the mixture in the first leftmost well in the first row of the plate was transferred to the second well in the first row. A 50 microliter aliquot of the mixture in the second well in the first row was then transferred to the third well in the first row. The compound was successively diluted 1 1 dilution at each step by transferring a 50 microliter aliquot from one well into the next well across the row of the plate. This procedure was repeated for each row of the plate. Then an overnight culture of strain ATCC 25175 was diluted 1 100 into sterile tryptic soy broth. A 50 microliter aliquot of the diluted culture 10CFU was deposited into each well of the microtiter plate. The plate was then incubated at 37 C. for 24 hours in a sealed humidified chamber. The plate was then visually inspected to determine the lowest concentration of compound at which no bacterial growth was visible. This value was considered to be the minimum inhibitory concentration MIC for the compound. The test was repeated using strain ATCC 6538 and strain ATCC 9027 in place of

The Quantitative Biofilm Inhibition Test was carried out using five compounds of the dental composition and eleven comparative compounds each at a concentration of 1 weight percent. A control Test was carried out on a sample Comparative Example 1 that did not contain an exemplary or comparative compound. In addition the Qualitative Biofilm Inhibition Test was carried out for each Example and Comparative Example in which each disc was visually examined before it was placed in the tube containing the aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The data are given in Table 1. In Table 1 OD Ratio refers to the ratio expressed as a percentage of the average optical density for each compound to the average optical density for a control sample calculated by dividing the average optical density for each compound by the average optical density for a control sample and multiplying the result by one hundred refers to a visual assessment that a compound inhibited biofilm formation and refers to a visual assessment that either a compound did not inhibit biofilm formation or that bacteria grew in the culture broth.

The Biofilm Inhibition Test was carried out using four compounds of the dental composition in broth containing 1.0 2.5 or 5.0 weight percent sucrose and the exemplary compounds of the dental composition at a concentration of either 50 millimolar or 150 millimolar. The data are given in Table 2. In Table 2 the millimolar concentration of compound that inhibited biofilm formation is given for each concentration of sucrose. An entry of n t means that the compound was not tested in broth containing the corresponding concentration of sucrose.

The Bacterial Kill Rate Test was carried out using the compounds listed in Table 3. The data are given in Table 3. In Table 3 the bacteria count reduction log reduction is the difference between the log of the initial bacteria count and the log of the bacteria count after 2 5 and 10 minutes.

For Examples 28 30 glucosamine 6 phosphate 40.55 mg was combined with a mixture of an acrylate polymer 1.0 g prepared as described in Example 3B of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 754 684 and ethanol 1.0 g to prepare a first coating solution. Three cured discs having a diameter of 17 mm and a thickness of 1 mm were prepared from a dental composite available under the trade designation FILTEK SUPREME XT UNIVERSAL RESTORATIVE from 3M ESPE St. Paul Minn. Each disc was weighed and was then dipped into the coating solution.

For Examples 31 33 glucosamine 6 phosphate 57.0 mg was combined with a polymer 0.5 g prepared as described in Example 11 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 347 Mitra 2 propanol 1.0 g and water 1.0 g to prepare a second coating solution. Three cured discs having a diameter of 17 mm and a thickness of 1 mm were prepared from a dental composite composition as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0114553. Each disc was weighed and was then dipped into the coating solution.

For Examples 34 36 glucosamine 6 phosphate 57.0 mg was combined with a polymer 0.5 g prepared as described in Example 11 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 347 Mitra 2 propanol 1.0 g and water 1.0 g to prepare a third coating solution. Three cured discs having a diameter of 17 mm and a thickness of 1 mm were prepared from a dental composite available under the trade designation FILTEK SUPREME XT UNIVERSAL RESTORATIVE from 3M ESPE St. Paul Minn. Each disc was weighed and was then dipped into the coating solution.

Each dipped disc was allowed to dry in air at room temperature for approximately 12 hours and was further dried in an oven at approximately 37 C. for approximately 12 hours. Each dried disc was then weighed. The weight of dried polymer coating on each disc was calculated as the difference in weight between the coated disc and the uncoated disc. The data are given in Table 4.

A sample of each of N dodecanoyl D glucosamine N tetradecanoyl D glucosamine and N hexadecanoyl D glucosamine 0.100 g each was emulsified in water 10 g using a nonionic surfactant 0.9 g PLURONIC F68 available from BASF Corp. Mount Olive N.J. . A control sample was made by combining the nonionic surfactant 0.9 g and water 10 g . Each of the four samples was evaluated using the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration MIC Test described above with and . The data are given in Table 5. In Table 5 F68 refers to the nonionic surfactant used in the Comparative Examples and none means that no inhibitory activity was noted.

Various modifications and alterations to this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention. It should be understood that this invention is not intended to be unduly limited by the illustrative embodiments and examples set forth herein and that such examples and embodiments are presented by way of example only with the scope of the invention intended to be limited only by the claims set forth herein as follows.

