---

title: Contextual report element mapping to web service input parameter
abstract: Some aspects include selection of a cell of a report section, the cell associated with a data dimension and with a context of the report section, and association of the cell with an input parameter of a software service. Aspects may include identification of a contextual report specification associated with a software service and with one or more report elements, at least one of the one or more report elements being associated with an input parameter of the software service, determination of data corresponding to a plurality of the one or more report elements, generation of a script to invoke the software service and to pass contents of the at least one of the one or more report elements as the input parameter to the software service, and generation of a report output based on the data and the script.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235561&OS=09235561&RS=09235561
owner: Business Objects S.A.
number: 09235561
owner_city: Levallois-Perret
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20081017
---
Conventional enterprise software systems receive generate and store data related to many aspects of a business enterprise. In some implementations this data may relate to marketing sales customer relations supplier relations inventory human resources and or finances. Reporting tools are commonly used to collect and present enterprise data in a coherent manner. Reporting tools may therefore facilitate and improve business enterprise decision making.

Reporting tools typically allow a user to create a report specification. A report specification defines the layout of report elements e.g. sections tables columns rows header footer etc. and the data which is to populate the report elements. When a report is requested the tools generate a populated report based on stored enterprise data and the report specification. If the relevant data changes a subsequently generated report will include the changed data.

For most users the reporting interface is the primary if not exclusive interface to the stored enterprise data. It would be beneficial to leverage this well known and well used reporting metaphor to provide mechanisms for modifying the stored enterprise data.

The following description is provided to enable any person in the art to make and use the described embodiments and sets forth the best mode contemplated for carrying out some embodiments. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those in the art.

Report includes sections and . Section includes cell associated with a Year dimension and section includes cell associated with a City dimension. Section is nested within section . Accordingly the Year dimension is the context of cell .

Section includes table which in turn includes column and column . Table is nested within section and within section . Accordingly the context of table and of columns and includes the Year dimension of section and the City dimension of section .

Each illustrated element of report template can generally be referred to as a contextual report element because the data which is to populate each element is dependent upon the context s associated with each element. Some embodiments may employ other report elements that are or will be known in the art. Contextual report elements are not limited to the types and arrangements shown in .

Report template also includes submission controls and . Submission control is associated with the context of section submission control is associated with the context of section and submission control is associated with the context of table . According to some embodiments each of submission controls and is associated with a service. The service may be provided by any service oriented architecture to allow writing to or otherwise updating of a data structure.

Input parameters Sales City and Year of the service may be associated respectively with column cell and cell . However due to the different contexts in which submission controls and reside data passed to the service in response to selection of one of submission controls and will be different from data passed to the service in response to selection of another one of submission controls and .

Cells A and B are populated with data that is associated with a City dimension and with the year 2008 of cell . Similarly the columns of tables A and B are populated with data associated with the cities specified in respective cells A and B and with the year 2008 of cell . Specifically table A includes Sales Revenue data for New York in 2008 and table B includes Sales Revenue data for Chicago in 2008. The data may be populated upon generation of report and or by a user who has input the data into one or more fields.

Report includes submission controls A B A A B and B associated with similarly numbered ones of submission controls and . As described above each submission control is associated with a same service and various report elements of report are associated with respective input parameters i.e. Sales City and Year of the service. As also described above the specific data passed to the service upon selection of one of submission controls A B A A B and B depends on the context in which the selected control resides.

For example selection of any one of submission controls A A B and B invokes the associated service and passes the associated year 2008 the one associated city New York or Chicago and the one associated salesperson Bill John Jill or Joe as input parameters to the service. In contrast selection of submission controls A invokes the service with the associated year 2008 the associated city New York and all associated sales Bill John as input parameters. Lastly selection of submission control invokes the associated service and passes the associated year 2008 all cities New York and Chicago and all sales per city as input parameters to the service. Of course it is assumed that the service is capable of accepting simple or list parameters as described in the above example.

Initially at a cell of a report section is selected. The cell is associated with a data dimension and with a context of the report section. Some embodiments of may comprise selecting any contextual report element e.g. a row a column a table etc. consisting of one or more cells.

Implementation details of according to some specific embodiments are described below. With reference to however table may be selected at . As noted above each cell of table is associated with a data dimension i.e. Sales and Revenue and with a context i.e. Year City .

Next at the selected cell is associated with an input parameter of a software service. Such a software service may include a Web Service an Application Programming Interface a Software Development Kit or any other type of callable software service that is or becomes known. By associating the selected cell with the input parameter the reporting metaphor may be expanded to provide input to a back end system.

BI tier includes user interface UI portal and BI content beans . Repository stores objects e.g. dimensions measures details used by BI tier report specifications and report specific named service instances as will be described below. Web Services include write actions for writing to data sources and a catalog specifying input parameters and other information regarding the write actions. Services used on conjunction with some embodiments are not limited to write actions or to Web services. For example a service may comprise a call for updating ERP or other data source. BI tier also includes report engines to generate reports based on a corresponding report specification stored in repository and on data of data sources specified by the report specification.

Data sources may comprise one or more of relational database enterprise applications legacy applications Online Analytical Processing OLAP sources and other data sources. In this regard BI tier also includes any necessary connectors for interacting with one or more of data sources .

BI tier may provide report designer with functionality to generate reports according to some embodiments. Such reports include at least one contextual report element that is mapped to an input parameter of a software service. Report designer may access UI portal BI content beans and the catalog of Web Services to create and modify report specifications according to some embodiments.

Report designer may comprise any suitable device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a tablet PC and a smartphone. Report designer may execute program code of a rich client application an applet in a Web browser or any other application to perform the processes attributed thereto herein.

Browsing client may also comprise any suitable device executing program code of a rich client application an applet in a Web browser or any other application. Browsing client may access UI portal and BI content beans to view and interact with reports according to some embodiments. Once browsing client requests a report report engines generate the report based on a corresponding report specification stored in repository and on data of data sources specified by the report specification.

Architecture may include other unshown components to provide functionality other than that described herein. For example BI tier may include components to provide security session management and report delivery services e.g. scheduling publishing dashboards .

User interface includes window presenting available reports. Repository of BI tier may store report specifications corresponding to these reports. also illustrates user selection of a Modify link associated with a report entitled BudgetPlanningWWDemo .

Selection of the Modify link causes report designer to issue a request for the BudgetPlanningWWDemo report. In response report engines generate the report based on a corresponding report specification stored in repository and on data of data sources specified by the report specification. The report is returned to report designer and displayed within user interface of .

User interface shows several contextual report elements each of which is populated by data depending upon the dimension of the section in which the element is nested. For example the Year dimension of cell dictates the context of the main section of the report. Accordingly the illustrated cells of table are associated with the Year dimension of cell and are populated with 2009 data based thereon.

Column is then labeled Limit as shown in . also depicts another invocation of context menus . The cells of column are changed to input fields in response to the manipulation of context menus as shown in .

In this regard and returning to process a write back service is associated with a contextual report specification at . A write back service according to the present embodiment is a Web Service that provides writing to a data source such as one of data sources . A catalog of Web Services may provide a description of input parameters of such a write back service. Embodiments are not limited to use in conjunction with a write back service.

A contextual report specification includes at least one report element which is populated by data depending upon the dimension s of the section s in which the element is nested. Report template represents a contextual report specification according to some embodiments. Process will be described with respect to the contextual report specification depicted in .

According to some embodiments of a user accesses pull down menu and selects the Form Action menu item therefrom. Form Action panel of is displayed in response the content of which may be provided by UI portal . Panel displays all named service instances which are associated with the current report specification. Each named service instance corresponds to one of Web Services and each is associated with one or more input parameters. The input parameter may comprise primitive parameters e.g. string numeric date time or list parameters.

The user has selected Add button resulting in the display of window . Window displays Web Services exposed by BI tier . More specifically the list of Web Services of window may be obtained from the catalog of Web Services . illustrates navigation of the list and selection of a write back service. The user has also entered a name Update Budget Limit to associate with the selected write back service.

The write back service is associated with the current contextual report specification at upon selection of OK button . Moreover a named instance i.e. named Update Budget Limit of the write back service is created and associated with the report specification at . The named service instance may be stored in repository . shows the created named service instance within panel as well as its associated input parameters e.g. determined from the Catalog of Web Services .

At an element of a report section is associated with an input parameter of the named instance of the service. The element is associated with a data dimension and with a context of the report section. illustrates selection of the Country column of table at . The Bind Cell to Form option of displayed context menu is then selected to initiate the association at .

More particularly and as shown in window displays each of the named service instances associated with the current report specification. Window also displays the input parameters of each named service instance and their parameter types. In some embodiments window does not display those service instances of panel which are already associated with another block of the report specification or which are associated with parameter types that are each incompatible with the selected report element e.g. a list parameter in a case that the selected element is a free cell . In the present example the selected report element i.e. Country column is mapped to the input parameter Country of the Update Budget Limit service instance.

Next at it is determined whether more input parameters of the created named service instance are to be associated with report elements. If so flow cycles between and as additional report elements are associated with i.e. mapped to respective input parameters. For example illustrate two of such cycles. Particularly illustrate the association of Year cell with the Year input parameter of the named service instance and the association of the Limit column of table with the Limit input parameter of the named service instance. According to some embodiments input parameter types that are incompatible with a selected report element may be unselectable e.g. greyed out .

Flow proceeds to once the determination at is negative. A submission control of the report specification is associated with the named service instance at . For example illustrates right clicking on the Update Limit buttons of table and selection of the Bind Cell to Form context menu option. Unlike selection of the same menu option with respect to the other report elements selection of the Bind Cell to Form menu option with respect to a button results in display of window of . Window allows association of the selected buttons with the named service instance Update Budget Limit .

Accordingly selection of an Update Limit button of a particular row of table will cause invocation of the named service instance with the Year of Year cell the Country specified in the particular row and the Limit specified in the particular row as input parameters. According to some embodiments a similar button might be placed in the area above table and also associated with the named service instance as described above. Selection of such a button will cause invocation of the named service instance with the Year of Year cell each Country of table and the Limit associated with each country as input parameters. Therefore although both invocations utilize the same input parameter to report element bindings the context in which the submission control resides may determine the type of data passed to the service. The associations of process may be stored in the current report specification as metadata relating to each block of the report specification. is a flow diagram of process to generate a report output based on such a report specification according to some embodiments.

A contextual report specification is identified at . For example browsing client may access UI portal and request a report and a report specification associated with the report may be identified at in response. The identified report specification is associated with a write back service and specifies a report structure hierarchy including an element associated with an input parameter of the service. Accordingly the identified report specification may comprise a report specification generated according to process but embodiments are not limited thereto.

Next at data is determined corresponding to elements of the report structure hierarchy. As is known in the art report engine may determine data from data sources with which to populate contextual report elements based on the identified specification. In some embodiments data is determined at for the report element associated with an input parameter of the write back service.

A script is generated at to invoke the write back service. The script may comprise any code e.g. Javascript that is executable by a suitable execution engine. The script is executable to invoke the write back service and to include contents of the above mentioned report element as an input parameter of the write back service. Generation of the script is based on the report specification which as described with respect to process specifies associations between the various input parameters of the write back service and the report elements as well as a submission control of the report that is associated with the write back service.

A report output is generated at based on the report structure hierarchy the determined data and the generated script. More specifically the physical layout of the report elements may be generated based on the hierarchy the data may be used to populate the elements and the script may be placed in a suitable portion of the report output e.g. at the end . Report engines may generate the report output in any suitable format. The report output may be generated in a generic format to facilitate rendering to any of several alternative formats e.g. HTML PDF Java .

As described above button has been defined as a submission control associated with the Update Budget Limit named instance of the updateBudgetLimit service. This association was reflected in the report specification and therefore a corresponding invocation script of the report output is tied to button . The script is intended to invoke the service and to pass appropriate input parameters thereto. The input parameters are based on the associations between input parameters and report elements that are specified in the corresponding report specification on which the script is based.

The embodiments described herein are solely for the purpose of illustration. Those in the art will recognize that other embodiments may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the claims.

