---

title: Methods, systems and computer program products for enhanced call screening
abstract: This disclosure details the implementation of methods, systems and computer program products for enhanced call screening (hereinafter, “ECS”). ECS systems implement a live call screening application whereby users may hear voicemail messages in real time as they are being recorded, decide whether or not they wish to talk to the caller leaving the message, and engage the caller in two-way communications by indicating interest in doing so. In one embodiment, a method is disclosed, comprising: receiving a voicemail recording phase indicator, wherein the voicemail recording phase indicator indicates initiation of a recording phase for an incoming voice message by a voicemail server; establishing a communicative connection between the voicemail server and a call recipient device in response to the voicemail recording phase indicator; instructing transmission of a data stream from the voicemail server to the call recipient device via the communicative connection, the data stream comprising the incoming voice message in real-time recording progress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08948351&OS=08948351&RS=08948351
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08948351
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081014
---
Answering machines and services exist to assist telephone users in receiving calls that they are unavailable to answer or may have otherwise missed. A recording mode on an answering machine may switch on after a pre set number of telephone rings have occurred without the call being picked up. During a recording phase a pre recorded message may be played for the caller and then a digital or analog recording medium may be engaged while the caller speaks a message. In some cases with tape recording answering machines the caller s message may be played aloud by means of a speaker while the message is being recorded. More recently cellular telephones and other digital telephony technologies have come about. These systems may employ answering services whereby a missed call is relayed to a voice messaging server for recording and later retrieval.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

This disclosure details the implementation of methods systems and computer program products for enhanced call screening hereinafter ECS . ECS systems implement a live call screening application whereby users may hear voicemail messages in real time as they are being recorded decide whether or not they wish to talk to the caller leaving the message and engage the caller in two way communications by indicating interest in doing so. In one embodiment a method is disclosed comprising receiving a voicemail recording phase indicator wherein the voicemail recording phase indicator indicates initiation of a recording phase for an incoming voice message by a voicemail server establishing a communicative connection between the voicemail server and a call recipient device in response to the voicemail recording phase indicator instructing transmission of a data stream from the voicemail server to the call recipient device via the communicative connection the data stream comprising the incoming voice message in real time recording progress.

In another embodiment a method is disclosed comprising receiving a voicemail recording phase indicator wherein the voicemail recording phase indicator indicates initiation of a recording phase for an incoming voice message by a voicemail server establishing a communicative connection to the voicemail server in response to the voicemail recording phase indicator receiving a data stream via the communicative connection wherein the data stream comprises the incoming voice message in recording progress and providing the data stream for playback of the incoming voice message in recording progress.

It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of an ECS user administrator voicemail server data payload monetization model hardware configuration network framework and or the like various embodiments of the ECS may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. The instant disclosure discusses embodiments of the ECS primarily within the context of internet enabled voice telephony. However it is to be understood that the system described herein may be readily configured customized for a wide range of other applications or implementations. For example aspects of the ECS may be adapted for video messaging computer based communications and or the like applications. It is to be understood that the ECS may be further adapted to other implementations or communication and or telephony applications.

At some point after the voicemail server has been triggered it may initiate a communication with the ECS system shown at . In one implementation the communication may comprise an indication that a voice message recording phase is beginning or has begun. In one implementation this indication may be sent to the ECS system in the period of time during which the voicemail server is transmitting a greeting message to the caller . Once the ECS system has been triggered a communication may be established between it and the voicemail server in order for the ECS system to receive a data stream comprising the caller s voice message recording in real time progress therefrom. The data stream and or a re formatted version of the voice message recording in progress may then be transmitted to the call recipient for playback. In one implementation the call recipient may listen to the voice message as it is being recorded and decide if he or she desires to speak to the caller . If the desire exists then the call recipient may initiate a two way communication with the caller by providing an indication of the desire for that communication to the ECS system . Such an indication of desire may be provided in a wide variety of different ways within different implementations and or embodiments of ECS operation. For example in one implementation a call recipient operating a telephone device having a handset may initiate a two way communication with a caller by picking up the handset. In another implementation one in which the call recipient operates a cellular telephone device the two way communication may be initiated by compressing a receiver button and or other keypad button on the device. In still another implementation one in which the call recipient engages the ECS system via a PC the two way communication may be initiated by selecting a graphical user interface GUI widget with a mouse pointer. When the two way communication has been selected the call recipient and caller may be connected as though the call recipient had answered the caller s call in the first place prior to initiation of the voice message recording phase.

In some embodiments an ECS system may be integrated with a call recipient communications and or telephony device. In alternative embodiments various other ECS affiliated entities such as voicemail servers session border controllers border control complexes and or the like may be integrated with and or within the ECS system and or other ECS components. For example the embodiment illustrated in shows the ECS system incorporating both voicemail servers and application servers the former implementing the recording of voicemails and associated functions and or services and the latter implementing the delivery of live voice message recording in progress to call recipients and or a call recipient device. further illustrates different communicative couplings between various ECS components and or affiliated entities in one embodiment of ECS operation with a key delineating the different couplings shown at . In the illustrated implementation the call recipient and or others users callers and or the like may be connected to a border control complex comprising line SBCs and or peering SBCs by an internet path that may be mediated by a communication network . The internet path shown may employ voice over Internet Protocol VOIP SIP and or the like for configuring communications and or data exchanges. The Border Control Complex is shown as coupled to the voicemail server component of the ECS system by means of a media bearer path. The voicemail servers in turn are shown as coupled to the application servers by means of a signaling and or service control path. Finally the application servers are shown as coupled to the call recipients via an internet path such as may be mediated by a communications network . Communications data exchanges and or the like between the application servers and the call recipients or other users may in one implementation be configured based on one or more SIP customer premises equipment CPE formats.

In one embodiment the ECS controller may be housed separately from other modules and or databases within the ECS while in another embodiment some or all of the other modules and or databases may be housed within and or configured as part of the ECS controller. Further detail regarding implementations of ECS controller operation modules and databases is provided below.

In the implementation illustrated in the ECS controller may be configured to couple to external entities via a communications interface . The communications interface may for example configure data received from the ECS controller and or any of a variety of external entities for receipt and or transmission to other entities and or ECS components. In various implementations a communications interface may for example serve to configure data into application transport network data link and or physical layer formats in accordance with a TCP IP communications model. The communications interface may further be configurable to implement and or translate SIP SIP CPE VOIP and or the like data formats and or protocols. The communications interface may further house one or more ports jacks antennas and or the like to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with and or within the ECS system.

In one implementation he ECS controller may further be coupled to a plurality of modules configured to implement ECS functionality and or services. An instruction response module may in one implementation be configurable to receive and or process an indicator sent by one or more voicemail servers that a voice message recording phase has commenced and to initiate a response thereto. For example the instruction response module may receive a pre specified signal from a voicemail server based on which it may send a response instruction to the voicemail server to initiate a transfer data stream and or the like of a caller s voice message recording in progress. The instruction response module may in one implementation be further configurable to receive and or process an indicator sent by a call recipient that he or she desires to interrupt a voice message recording in progress and initiate a two way communication with a caller leaving that voice message i.e. to answer the call and to initiate a response thereto. For example the instruction response module may receive a pre specified signal from a call recipient e.g. an indication that a receiver button has been pressed on a call recipient s telephone device and may initiate the establishment of a two way communication channel between the caller and the call recipient and or initiate the termination of the transmission of the voice message recording in progress from a voicemail server to the call recipient. A media processing module may in one implementation be configurable to receive and or process data pertaining to one or more voice message recordings in progress for transmission to one or more call recipients. The media processing module may for example receive voice message recording data in one form and convert it into a data stream suitable for transmission to a call recipient device CPE and or the like. In one implementation the media processing module may implement one or more data transmission and or communication protocols for sent and or received data.

In one implementation the ECS controller may further be coupled to one or more databases configured to store and or maintain ECS data. A users database may contain information pertaining to callers and or call recipients contact information profile information identities of hardware devices CPEs and or the like associated with users service preferences system settings and or the like. A hardware database may contain information pertaining to hardware devices with which the ECS system may communicate such as but not limited to voicemail servers user telephony devices CPEs gateways routers and or the like. The hardware database may specify transmission protocols data formats and or the like suitable for communicating with hardware devices employed by any of a variety of ECS affiliated entities. A voicemail database may contain data pertaining to voice messages recorded previously and or recording in progress. In one implementation the voicemail database may serve as a temporary repository for voicemail data intermediate between one or more voicemail servers and one or more call recipients.

In response to the recording phase indicator the ECS system may connect the call recipient with the voice message recording in progress such as by directing the voicemail server to transmit the voice message recording in progress directly thereto and or via one or more intermediary agencies. In one implementation the ECS system may first present the call recipient with an option as to whether or not he or she wishes to hear the voice message recording in progress and or to receive the associated data stream. For example the ECS system may generate and or send to the call recipient a user interface screen with a selectable option displayed thereon. In one implementation the ECS system may serve as the intermediary agency receiving voice message data from the voicemail server and relaying it to the call recipient and or a call recipient device. In one implementation the ECS system may further process and or format voice message data before providing the data to the call recipient e.g. converting the data into a data stream formatting the data for receipt by a particular call recipient device implementing one or more transmission protocols and or the like . In an alternative implementation the ECS system may establish a three way connection between the caller call recipient and the voicemail server.

A determination may then be made as to whether the call recipient has provided an indication of a desire to interrupt the voice message recording in progress and or to communicate directly with the caller . To make such a determination a call recipient may be provided and or presented with a user interface notification screen indicating playback of the incoming voice message recording and or requesting user input or interaction to interrupt the voice message. The call recipient may interrupt the voice message recording in progress and seek to establish two way communication with the caller by for example lifting a device handset pressing a device button selecting a graphical user interface widget and or the like. If the voice message recording is left uninterrupted it may proceed to completion and the ECS system may disconnect from the call recipient voicemail server and or the like . If however the call recipient provides an indication of a desire to interrupt the voice message recording in progress the ECS system may instruct the establishment of a two way connection between the caller and the call recipient to allow them to communicate directly with one another . In one implementation the two way connection that is established is substantially the same as a connection that would be established had the call recipient answered the call in the first place prior to engagement of the voicemail service and or servers.

The ECS system may then make a call and or otherwise attempt to connect to one or more forward numbers as obtained from the profile . In one implementation the ECS system may try all forwarding numbers simultaneously. This implementation may serve to reduce lag time between recording of the voice message and the call recipient s receipt of that voice message recording in progress. In another implementation the ECS system may try forwarding numbers in sequence such as in an order that may be specified by a forwarding number priority obtained from a call recipient profile. A determination is made as to whether the call to any forwarding number has been answered . If not then the ECS system may allow the voicemail recording to continue normally . Otherwise the ECS system may connect the call recipient with the voice message recording in progress . In one implementation the ECS system may establish a three way connection between the voicemail server the caller and or a caller device and the call recipient and or a call recipient device. In another implementation the ECS server may act as an intermediary to receive voice message data from the voicemail server and relay it to the call recipient and or a call recipient device.

A determination may be made as to whether or not the call recipient desires to connect directly to the caller to facilitate two way communication . In one implementation the ECS system may present the option to the call recipient by means of an interface screen. In another implementation the call recipient may register the desire for two way communication by executing a pre defined action on the call recipient device e.g. lifting a handset compressing a keypad key selecting a graphical user interface element with a mouse pointer and or the like . If the desire for two way communication is registered then the ECS system may instruct the facilitation and or establishment of a two way communication connection between the caller and the call recipient . In one implementation the call recipient s registration of desire to engage in two way communication may cause recording of the voice message to be interrupted. In another implementation the voicemail server may continue to record the two way communication between the caller and the call recipient. If the call recipient does not indicate a desire to establish a two way connection then the voicemail server and or ECS system may wait for the completion of the voice message recording and present the call recipient with one or more answering machine options such as but not limited to replaying forwarding saving and or deleting the voice message.

An implementation of a table listing messages and or instructions that may be passed between and or among various entities such as those shown in is shown below. in one embodiment of ECS operation. The table includes an action column listing specific messages and or instructions and a description column providing additional description of each action.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems engage information technology systems e.g. commonly computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors are often referred to as central processing units CPUs . A common form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative signals to enable various operations. Such communicative signals may be stored and or transmitted in batches as program and or data components facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction code signals may engage the CPU circuit components to perform desired operations. A common type of program is a computer operating system which commonly is executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Common resources employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. Often information technology systems are used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation commonly which is facilitated through a database program. Information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the ECS controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices a cryptographic processor device and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this disclosure refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The ECS controller may be based on common computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily the foregoing are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus . Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally a cryptographic processor and or a global positioning system GPS component may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and provides a base signal. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of signals embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative signals may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply signal communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron IBM and or Motorola s PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through signal passing through conductive conduits to execute stored signal program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such signal passing facilitates communication within the ECS controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount of speed parallel mainframe and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the ECS thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus es may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the ECS controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Apple Desktop Bus ADB Apple Desktop Connector ADC audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like IEEE 1394a b infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio serial USB video interface BNC coaxial composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless and or the like. A common output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Also a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices may be card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards mouse mice remote controls retina readers trackballs trackpads and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces and or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices cameras dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added functionality goggles microphones monitors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices video devices video sources visors and or the like.

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the ECS controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the ECS controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller commonly manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allow for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 or Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the ECS controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the ECS component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the ECS controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the ECS controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the ECS controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the ECS controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the ECS database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the ECS database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the ECS. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the ECS as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources functionality and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources functionality and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista i.e. Aero XP or Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact with and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Some Web browsers allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Java JavaScript ActiveX web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the ECS enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the ECS.

Access to the ECS mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the ECS may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the ECS component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the ECS and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The ECS database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the ECS database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the ECS database is implemented as a data structure the use of the ECS database may be integrated into another component such as the ECS component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Users table may include fields such as but not limited to user ID user name contact info hardware ID mobile device type usage history and or the like. A Hardware table may include fields such as but not limited to hardware ID hardware type hardware name data formatting requirements protocols addressing info usage history hardware requirements user ID and or the like. A Voicemail table may include fields such as but not limited to voicemail ID caller ID call recipient ID user ID voicemail data formatting metadata time date source destination and or the like. These tables may support and or track multiple entity accounts on the ECS controller.

In one embodiment the ECS database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search ECS component may treat the combination of the ECS database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the ECS. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the ECS may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The ECS may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The ECS database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the ECS database communicates with the ECS component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The ECS component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the ECS component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the ECS that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the ECS affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The ECS component is configurable to access calculate engage exchange generate identify instruct match process search serve store and or facilitate communication channels between ECS components and or affiliated entities transmission of voice message recording in progress to and among callers and or call recipients enhanced call screening and or the like and use of the ECS.

The ECS component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the ECS server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The ECS component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the ECS component communicates with the ECS database operating systems other program components and or the like. The ECS may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the ECS node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the ECS controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA local and remote application program interfaces Jini Remote Method Invocation RMI process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. Again the configuration will depend upon the context of system deployment.

The entirety of this disclosure including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the disclosure are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims.

