---

title: Information processing system, information processing unit, control method, program and a recording medium
abstract: An information processing system includes a plurality of information processing units wirelessly communicating with each other, each of which includes a distribution data receiving section for receiving distribution data to be distributed to each of the information processing units from an information processing unit that has received the distribution data among the plurality of information processing units, a destination selection section for selecting an information processing unit that has not received the distribution data as a destination information processing unit for the distribution data from among the plurality of information processing units, and a distribution data sending section for sending the distribution data to the information processing unit selected by the destination selection section using a frequency band that is not used by another information processing unit while the other information processing unit is sending the distribution data to still another information processing unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07911989&OS=07911989&RS=07911989
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07911989
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
This patent application is a continuing application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 190 305 filed Jul. 26 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 453 859 which claims priority to Japanese Patent Application Number 2004 217604 filed on Jul. 26 2004 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to an information processing system information processing unit control method program and recording medium. In particular the present invention relates to an information processing system information processing unit control method program and recording medium for configuring a wireless communication network.

Recently as higher performance and more price reduction of computers are increasingly realized IT is rapidly progressed in various fields. For example in the field of education it is increasingly common that each student is provided with his her own personal computer for use during lectures and practices. In order to give such lectures appropriately it is necessary to appropriately set up software for a lot of personal computers for each lecture.

As functions of software are increasingly complicated significant time and labor are often required to set up software for a number of computers. Accordingly it is conceivable to distribute a disk image for replacing the contents of a hard disk drive to each computer via a network when the same software is installed according to the same settings. However the data size of the disk image is generally very large.

There have been proposed various techniques relative to the ad hoc mode for wireless LAN. For example there has been proposed a technique wherein when one cluster is constituted by multiple communication devices mutually communicating with each other in the ad hoc mode for wireless LAN a cluster head for managing the cluster is appropriately selected from among these information processing units see Japanese Published Patent Application 2002 44003 . There has also been proposed a technique wherein in star connection where one parent machine and multiple child machines are connected in the ad hoc mode for wireless TAN a communication device to be the parent machine is selected based on the remaining amount of a battery for driving each communication device see Japanese Published Patent Application 2003 32263 .

According to the example in it is possible to distribute a disk image at a high speed. However it is necessary to perform wiring and install equipment in order to configure a wired network which is often troublesome. According to the example in it takes too much time to distribute a disk image. Therefore even if distribution is started at a closing time the distribution is not completed by a starting time of the next day. This causes the rate of facility operation to be very low. Further since the techniques disclosed in the above patent applications aim at keeping the status of wireless communication in the ad hoc mode optimum no method for distributing data such as a disk image at a high speed is mentioned.

The foregoing and other problems are overcome and other advantages are realized in accordance with the presently preferred embodiments of these teachings.

In order to solve the above problem in a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an information processing system comprising a plurality of information processing units wirelessly communicating with each other in which each of the plurality of information processing units comprises a distribution data receiving section for receiving distribution data to be distributed by each of the plurality of information processing units from an information processing unit that has received the distribution data among the plurality of information processing units a destination selection section for selecting an information processing unit that has not received the distribution data as a destination information processing unit for the distribution data from among the plurality of information processing units and a distribution data sending section for sending the distribution data to the information processing unit selected by the destination selection section using a frequency band that is not used by another one of the plurality of information processing units while the other one of the plurality of information processing units is sending the distribution data to still another one of the plurality of information processing units. Further an information processing unit configuring the information processing system a control method for the information processing unit a program for controlling the information processing unit and a recording medium recording the program are also provided.

According to the present invention data can be distributed to a plurality of information processing units at high speed.

The information processing units to are provided for example on the respective student s desks. When receiving the distribution data the information processing unit sends the distribution data sequentially to each of the information processing units and using a frequency band which is not used by the information processing unit for transmission while the information processing unit is sending the distribution data to the information processing unit . Similarly each of the information processing units to to and sends the distribution data using a frequency band which is not used by any other information processing unit while the other information processing unit is sending the distribution data to still another information processing unit.

The information processing unit may be a desktop type personal computer or a notebook type computer powered by a battery or by AC power. The wireless communication may be performed via a wireless LAN conforming to the IEEE802.11a b g standard for example. The frequency band is determined by one of communication channels which can be selectively set in the wireless LAN standard. For example in the case of the IEEE802.11a g standard one of twenty seven channels can be set for each information processing unit and a different frequency band can be used for each channel to be set.

The distribution data is for example a disk image for replacing the contents of the hard disk drive of each information processing unit. Specifically the distribution data includes an operating system application program s or setting information of parameters for these programs.

Thus the information processing system according to this embodiment sends distribution data concurrently using a plurality of frequency bands by combining a plurality of information processing units each of which can use only one frequency band. Thus the distribution data can be distributed quickly by transferring it along for example communication routes in a tree structure to enhance the degree of concurrency in sending the distribution data and using as many frequency bands as possible at the same time.

The host controller connects the RAM to the CPU and the graphic controller both of which access the RAM at a high transfer rate. The CPU controls each part based on programs stored in the BIOS and the RAM . The graphic controller acquires image data generated by the CPU or other device on a frame buffer provided in the RAM and displays it on a display device . Alternatively the graphic controller may include therein the frame buffer for storing image data generated by the CPU or other device.

The input output controller connects the host controller to the communication interface the hard disk drive and the CD ROM drive which are relatively high speed input output devices. The communication interface communicates with an external device via a wireless or wired network. Specifically the communication interface may select one of frequency bands to communicate with another information processing unit.

The communication interface uses an ad hoc mode for performing one to one communication with another information processing unit and an infrastructure mode for communicating with a wireless LAN access point. The hard disk drive stores programs and data to be used by the information processing unit . The CD ROM drive reads a program or data from a CD ROM and stores it in the RAM via the input output controller .

The BIOS a power control section and relatively low speed input output devices such as the input output chip are connected to the input output controller . The BIOS stores a boot program to be executed by the CPU at the startup time of the information processing unit and programs dependent on the hardware of the information processing unit . The flexible disk drive is connected to the input output chip . The flexible disk drive reads a program or data from a flexible disk and stores it in the RAM via the input output chip and the input output controller .

The power control section has a battery for driving the information processing unit . Also the power control section is connected to an external AC power. The power control section supplies power to each part of the information processing unit from the battery or the AC power. Furthermore the power control section manages strength of the battery and outputs information indicating the battery strength to the CPU . The power control section may power down the information processing unit based on an instruction from the CPU or may shift the information processing unit to a suspend state in which the power is temporarily shut down. The input output chip connects the flexible disk and other input output devices via parallel serial keyboard and or mouse ports.

A program to be provided for the information processing unit is stored in a recording medium such as the flexible disk the CD ROM or an IC card and provided by a user. The program is read from the recording medium via the input output chip and or the input output controller installed in the information processing unit and executed.

The program shown above may be stored in an external recording medium. The recording medium may be an optical recording medium such as a DVD or a PD a magneto optic recording medium such as an MD a tape medium or a semiconductor memory such as an IC card in addition to the flexible disk or the CD ROM . It is also possible to use a storage device such as a hard disk drive or a RAM which is provided for a server system connected to a dedicated communication network or the Internet as the recording medium and provide the program to the information processing unit via the network. Each of the information processing units to and the information processing unit have almost the same configuration as the information processing unit and therefore description thereof will be omitted here.

The unused band detection section detects a frequency band which is not used by any other information processing unit within the range in which a radio wave of wireless communication by the information processing unit interferes. For example the unused band detection section may periodically determine for each frequency band whether or not it is an unused band by giving an instruction to the communication interface . More specifically the unused band detection section detects a wireless LAN communication channel which is not used by any other information processing unit for communication by switching wireless LAN communication channels to perform frequency hopping.

The destination selection section selects from a plurality of information processing units an information processing unit which has not received the distribution data as an information processing unit to which the distribution data is to be sent. For example the destination selection section may instructs the communication interface to inquire of each of the other information processing units whether the distribution data has not been received through an unused band. In this case the destination selection section selects an information processing unit from among information processing units which have made a response to the inquiry to the effect that the distribution data has not been received. Alternatively the destination selection section may select a destination information processing unit based on transfer route information acquired by the transfer route acquisition section . As a result the destination selection section selects for example the information processing unit an example of a second information processing unit which has not received the distribution data as a destination information processing unit to which the distribution data is to be sent.

Preferably if the distribution data sending section finishes transmission of the distribution data the destination selection section selects a destination information processing unit to which the distribution data sending section sends the distribution data next after passage of a waiting time set by the waiting time setting section . In this case the waiting time setting section may set the waiting time based on the time required for transmission of the distribution data acquired from the distribution data sending section . For example a longer waiting time may be set if it takes much time to send the distribution data due to a bad radio wave condition. Thus it is possible to assign a frequency band preferentially to an information processing unit having a good radio wave condition and therefore distribute the distribution data more efficiently.

The distribution data sending section sends the distribution data to the information processing unit selected by the destination selection section using the unused band detected by the unused band detection section . Thus the distribution data sending section can send the distribution data concurrently with another information processing unit sending the distribution data to still another information processing unit using a frequency band which is not used by that other information processing unit.

If the unused band detection section cannot detect an unused band the suspending section instructs the power control section to temporarily power down the information processing unit and shift the information processing unit to a suspend state. More specifically the suspending section may call an API Application Programming Interface of the operating system or the BIOS to shift the information processing unit to the suspend state. Furthermore if an information processing unit which has not received the distribution data is not detected the suspending section may instruct the power control section to temporarily power down the information processing unit and shift it to the suspend state.

If the distribution data has already been received the power down section acquires information about the strength or remaining charge of the battery from the power control section each time the distribution data is sent to another information processing unit. If the strength of the battery is below a level required for sending the distribution data the power down section powers down the information processing unit without sending the distribution data to the next information processing unit.

The transfer route acquisition section may acquire from the information processing unit a transfer route along which the distribution data is to be transferred sequentially by a plurality of information processing units in association with the distribution data. In this case the destination selection section selects a destination information processing unit based on the transfer route. For example the transfer route acquisition section may acquire a transfer route with the number of HOPs which indicates the number of times the distribution data is transferred sequentially through a plurality of information processing units being less than a predetermined upper limit number and with the number of destination information processing units to which the distribution data is sent by this information processing unit being less than predetermined upper limit number. Thereby it is possible to determine an approximate upper limit of time required for sending the distribution data.

The used band indicating information acquisition section may acquire used band indicating information specifying a frequency band used by each information processing unit for wireless communication in association with the distribution data for example. In this case the unused band detection section detects an unused band based on the used band indicating information. Accordingly if frequency bands which do not interfere with each other are determined beforehand it is possible to save time required for detecting an unused band. Thus an unused band and a transfer route may be predetermined by the user.

A CPU in each of the information processing units to has almost the same configuration as that of the CPU shown in except that the sender and the destination of the distribution data are different. For example in the information processing unit which is an example of a third information processing unit according to the present invention the destination selection section selects the information processing unit which is an example of a fourth information processing unit according to the present invention as a destination information processing unit. The distribution data sending section sends the distribution data to the information processing unit concurrently with the information processing unit sending the distribution data to the information processing unit using a frequency band which is not used by the information processing unit . The other parts of the configuration are almost the same as those of the CPU in and therefore description thereof will be omitted.

If an unused band is detected S YES then the destination selection section inquires of each of the other information processing units whether the distribution data has not been received using the unused band S . If the destination selection section does not receive a response which indicates that the distribution data has not been received from any of the information processing units S NO then the suspending section shifts the information processing unit to the suspend state in which the information processing unit is temporarily powered down S .

On the other hand if a response is received which indicates that the distribution data has not been received S YES then the destination selection section selects a destination information processing unit to which the distribution data is to be sent S . If the response which indicates that the distribution data has not been received is received from a plurality of information processing units then the destination selection section preferably selects an information processing unit which communicates with the information processing unit at the highest speed from among those information processing units.

For example the destination selection section may select an information processing unit having the highest wireless LAN link speed. Alternatively the destination selection section may measure the effective speed between the information processing unit and each of the other information processing units and select an information processing unit having the highest effective speed. Alternatively the destination selection section may select an information processing unit which communicates via a wireless LAN conforming to the IEEE802.1a g standard without selecting any information processing unit which communicates via a wireless LAN conforming to the IEEE802.11b standard. Accordingly it is possible to assign a frequency band to higher speed communication and distribute the distribution data efficiently.

The destination selection section notifies the selected information processing unit that the information processing unit has been selected as the destination S . The destination selection section also notifies each of the information processing units which have not been selected as the destination among the information processing units which have made the response that the information processing unit has not been selected as the destination S . Thereby the notified information processing unit can shift its process to receipt of the distribution data from another information processing unit. In this case the destination selection section preferably sends to each of the information processing units which have not been selected as the destination among the information processing units which have made the response information about the total number of the information processing units which have made the response in association with the notification that the information processing unit has not been selected as the destination. Thereby the information processing unit waiting to receive the distribution data can know the approximate number of information processing units which compete therewith to receive the distribution data.

The distribution data sending section then sends the distribution data to the information processing unit selected by the destination selection section using the unused band detected by the unused band detection section S . When transmission of the distribution data ends the waiting time setting section sets a waiting time to wait before selecting a destination information processing unit to which the distribution data is to be sent next based on the time required for sending the distribution data S .

If the distribution data sending section sends the distribution data to another information processing unit at a higher communication speed then the waiting time setting section preferably sets the waiting time shorter in comparison with the case where the communication speed is lower. Thereby it is possible to assign a frequency band to an information processing unit having a higher communication speed preferentially and therefore distribute the distribution data more efficiently. As an another example if the number of HOPs or the number of times the distribution data received by the distribution data receiving section has been transferred sequentially by a plurality of information processing unit is larger then the waiting time setting section sets the waiting time shorter in comparison with the case where the number of HOPs is smaller. Thereby it is possible to distribute the distribution data to an information processing unit located farther from the source information processing unit preferentially to enhance efficiency of distributing the distribution data.

Then the power down section determines whether or not the strength or remaining charge of the battery is equal to or greater than the amount required for sending the distribution data S . For example the power down section may assume the battery strength capable of driving the information processing unit for the time required for sending distribution data in the past to be the necessary amount. Alternatively the power down section may assume the battery strength capable of driving the information processing unit for the time required for the distribution data receiving section to receive the distribution data to be the necessary amount and determine whether or not the strength of the battery is equal to or greater than the necessary amount. Thereby it is possible to predict the necessary amount at a certain level of accuracy even if the information processing unit has not sent the distribution data to another information processing unit.

If the battery strength is equal to or greater than the necessary amount S YES then the destination selection section waits for the waiting time set by the waiting time setting section S and returns the process to step S. On the other hand if the strength of the battery is below the necessary amount S NO then the power down section shuts down the information processing unit S and the information processing unit finishes the process. Thus it is possible to prevent the battery from being exhausted during transmission of distribution data.

Alternatively the power down section may power down or shut down the information processing unit when the strength of the battery is below a predetermined reference amount for the transmission of distribution data. For example the power down section powers down the information processing unit when the strength of the battery is below 80 of the full charge. As a result it is possible to keep the battery strength of all the information processing units in the information processing system at about 80 when distribution of distribution data ends. Thereby it is possible to keep appropriate battery strength when the information processing system is used again after the distribution data has been distributed.

On the other hand if such an inquiry is detected S YES then the distribution data receiving section responds that it has not received distribution data S . The distribution data receiving section then shifts to a reserved state in which it does not respond to an inquiry from any information processing unit other than the inquiring information processing unit that it has not received distribution data S .

Then if the distribution data receiving section is notified that the information processing unit has not been selected as a destination S YES the distribution data receiving section releases the reserved state S . The distribution data receiving section may receive information about the total number of information processing units which have responded to the inquiry that distribution data has not been received in association with the notification that the information processing unit has not been selected as a destination. In this case the suspending section preferably powers down the information processing unit temporarily for a longer time when the total number of responding information processing units is larger in comparison with the case where the total number of responding information processing units is smaller S . Thereby it is possible to reduce power consumption wasted by waiting to receive distribution data when there are a lot of information processing units competing to receive the distribution data.

On the other hand if the distribution data receiving section is not notified that the information processing unit has not been selected as a destination S NO then it determines whether or not it is notified that the information processing unit has been selected as a destination S . If the distribution data receiving section is not notified that the information processing unit has been selected as a destination S NO then it returns the process to step S. If the distribution data receiving section is notified that the information processing unit has been selected as a destination S YES then it starts to receive the distribution data S .

The process of sending distribution data to each information processing unit as time passes will be described with reference to . In the distribution data is assumed to be sent and received via a wireless LAN conforming to the IEEE802.11a g standard. Therefore bands available for one communication are twenty seven predetermined channels among channels to . In the figures these channels are indicated at the horizontal axis. The vertical axis of the figures indicates a lapse of time and one space between horizontal solid lines indicates a lapse of one hour. It is assumed here that transmission of distribution data requires thirty minutes.

As described above with the information processing system according to this embodiment it is possible to efficiently distribute data using a plurality of frequency bands at the same time even if each information processing unit can use only one frequency band. Thereby in comparison with the case of using an expensive communication device using a plurality of frequency bands at the same time the same level of communication speed can be achieved at a lower cost. Furthermore even if it is legally prohibited for one device to a plurality of frequency bands at the same time high speed communication can be realized by efficiently utilizing a plurality of frequency bands.

Furthermore according to the embodiment it is possible to save battery consumption in consideration of use after distribution of distribution data. Thereby it is possible to reduce burden on an administrator and general users and enhance convenience for them in various application fields such as school education various lectures and company training.

While the present invention has been described with reference to presently preferred embodiments the technical scope of the present invention is not limited to the embodiment described above. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or improvements can be made to the embodiment described above. It is apparent from the appended claims that such modified or improved embodiments can also be included in the technical scope of the present invention.

