---

title: Extending sharing options of local computing resources
abstract: A method, system, and medium are provided for sharing items residing on a computing device. Items selected for sharing can be made simultaneously available to users on a local network and to users outside of the local network. A remote sharing service allows access to copies of items based on user identifiers associated. Local attributes associated with items are modified such that the user identifiers are associated with the items for providing access via a local network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775548&OS=08775548&RS=08775548
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08775548
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080627
---
The present invention is defined by the claims below not this summary. This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Embodiments of the present invention provide for coordinating the sharing of an item residing on a first computing device with a user by way of a remote sharing service and a local sharing application

In a first aspect a set of computer executable instructions provides a method of sharing an item that includes receiving an indication that the item is to be shared with a user who is associated with a user identifier. A copy of the item is provided to a remote sharing service that permits access to the copy based on the user identifier. The user identifier is associated with an attribute of the item for providing immediate access to the item by way of communication with the first computing device.

In another illustrative aspect a set of computer executable instructions provides another method of sharing an item that resides on a first computing device. One embodiment of the method includes providing a user interface that presents a sharing option for sharing the item with a user who is associated with a user identifier by way of a remote sharing service. The embodiment further includes receiving a selection of the sharing option causing configuration of the user s sharing experience. An attribute of the item is modified such that the user is immediately permitted to access the item from a second computing device upon establishing a connection with the first computing device.

In a third illustrative aspect a set of computer executable instructions provides another method of sharing an item residing on a first computer. One embodiment includes displaying an option for invoking a remote sharing service that maintains an association between a user and a user identifier. The embodiment also includes invoking the remote sharing service such that the remote sharing service retrieves a copy of the item and allows access to the copy based on the user identifier. The embodiment further includes modifying an attribute of the item such that permission to access the item is associated with the user identifier. According to the embodiment an indication is received indicating that the user is attempting to access the item from a second computing device coupled to the first computing device by way of a LAN and access is granted to the item incident to verifying that the user is associated with the user identifier.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for sharing an item residing on a first computing device with a user who is associated with a user identifier by synchronizing sharing operations between a remote sharing service and a local sharing application.

Throughout the description of the present invention several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are solely intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are in no way meant to limit the scope of the present invention. The following is a list of these acronyms 

The invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally program modules including routines programs objects components data structures etc. refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including hand held devices consumer electronics general purpose computers more specialty computing devices and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplates media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory and other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media and other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

An exemplary operating environment in which various aspects of the present invention may be implemented is described below in order to provide a general context for various aspects of the present invention. Referring initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated.

Computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output ports input output components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be gray and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. We recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop hand held device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computing device. 

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable nonremovable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component vibrating component etc.

I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device keyboard pen voice input device touch input device touch screen device interactive display device or a mouse.

Turning to an exemplary networking environment for implementing embodiments of the present invention is shown. Networking environment includes a first computing device and a second computing device that can communicate with each other by way of a local area network LAN . As shown in networking environment also includes a third computing device and remote sharing servers and connected by way of a network . Network may be a wide area network WAN such as for example the Internet. Additionally computing devices and may communicate with each other and or with remote sharing servers and by way of network . Although computing devices and are illustrated as being connected by LAN computing devices and may be directly connected to each other in an embodiment. In another embodiment computing devices and may be directly connected to network .

Networking environment is merely an example of one suitable networking environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should networking environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein. Computing devices and can be any type of computing device that is capable of communicating via LAN and or network and may be for example computing devices such as computing device described above with reference to .

As shown in computing device includes a file system which has stored thereon items and . In an embodiment for example item is a file. In other embodiments items and or can include multimedia files documents applications devices and the like. In one embodiment item is a folder that contains a file . In another embodiment item is a device such as a connected hard drive a scanner or a printer. Of course file system can include a plurality of folders or other containers used for grouping files and other items. In other embodiments file system may reside on a separate machine from computing device such as on a file server or print server. Throughout the present document folders files programs images devices and the like will be referred to generally as items. 

Computing device also includes a sharing service application that is associated with a remote sharing service hosted by a remote sharing server or . Sharing service application can be installed according to an embodiment upon registration of the remote sharing service with computing device . Sharing service application facilitates sharing items such as folder and or file with users associated with other computing devices such as for example computing devices and . In one embodiment invocation of sharing service application enables a user of computing device to utilize item sharing services offered by an associated remote sharing service hosted by a remote sharing server or . In various embodiments remote sharing servers and retrieve a copy of an item to be shared and maintain that copy such that other users can access it. In various embodiments computing device includes more than one sharing application. In some embodiments computing device communicates with a number of sharing services and includes a local application for each service. According to an embodiment of the present invention all of the sharing applications available on computing device can be accessed from a single user interface such as for example a pull down menu having buttons or other selectable options e.g. icons representing each sharing service.

According to various embodiments sharing service application enables a user of computing device to apply various types of access permission settings which specify a type of access to an item that a particular user is permitted to an item such as for example by modifying a security descriptor associated with an item. A security descriptor can include an access control list ACL such as a mandatory access control list MACL or a discretionary access control list DACL . In various embodiments a security descriptor includes both types of ACLs. In other embodiments security descriptors include other structures used for authorizing access to a particular item such as for example domain names log in names and the like.

With continued reference to computing device further includes a local sharing application that facilitates sharing items with other users who have access to computing device such as by way of LAN . Local sharing application enables users of computing devices other than computing device such as for example computing device to access items stored on computing device . As with sharing service application local sharing application enables a user of computing device to apply access permission settings to items by modifying associated security descriptors. Furthermore in some embodiments ACLs or other security descriptors are created managed and modified by way of a directory service such as for example Active Directory a technology developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. In other embodiments security descriptors are created managed and modified by a user of computing device .

In some embodiments local sharing application is not a full scale application but rather is a service or other functionality enabled by a program module communications protocol application programming interface API or the like. For example in one embodiment local sharing application includes a package of services enabled by the Server Message Block SMB protocol such as the Common Internet File System CIFS available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

In an embodiment local sharing application includes a native application or software module residing on computing device and in another embodiment local sharing application includes an application or software module associated with remote sharing server or . In a further embodiment local sharing application includes an API that is called by sharing service application to ACL items to online identities. Embodiments of the present invention are capable of similar functionality regardless of the security methods used. In some cases for example access to items is managed by utilizing NT Domain authentication login authentication and the like. Additionally an item may have a number of corresponding ACLs.

Although not illustrated in in some embodiments there can be one or more interfaces disposed between sharing service application and local sharing application such that sharing service application can apply access permission settings associated with copies of items shared using an associated sharing service to the items residing on computing device . In an embodiment sharing service application interfaces with local sharing application to provide local sharing application with user identifiers associated with users that have been identified as having authority to access copies of the items that reside on computing device . Consequently local sharing application associates those user identifiers with the items such as by creating access control entries ACEs that include the user identifiers. Thus for example these ACEs can be applied to ACLs associated with items that are to be shared.

It should be noted that any kind of user identifier can be used in the implementation of various embodiments of the present invention such as for example a user s online identification an email address a log in identifier a network access identifier a user generated identifier and the like. In various embodiments the user identifier is used by remote sharing servers or to identify authenticate and or authorize the associated user with regard to utilization of the sharing services provided by the remote sharing servers or .

With continued reference to computing device also includes a local sharing application and may additionally contain sharing services applications although for clarity these are not illustrated in . Local sharing application can be identical or similar to local sharing application . Local sharing application is in other embodiments a different type of sharing application. In embodiments of the present invention local sharing application manages access permissions associated with items residing on computing device . Local sharing applications and either independently or in concert facilitate the ability to share items among computing devices and by way of LAN . In still further embodiments local sharing applications and facilitate sharing items by way of communication between computing devices and .

As illustrated in computing device includes a sharing services application which in various embodiments is similar to sharing services application . In an embodiment sharing services applications and both enable invocation and utilization of services provided by one of remote sharing servers and . By utilizing those services a user associated with computing device can share items that reside on computing device with another user associated with computing device .

In various embodiments computing device communicates a copy or of an item that is to be shared to remote sharing server or and a user associated with computing device sets access permissions on that copy or . Accordingly a user associated with computing device may access the copy or of the item according to the access permission settings. Remote sharing services such as those hosted by sharing servers and may provide a variety of services functions customizations and other modifications to the sharing experience. All of these variables are contemplated within the ambit of the present invention.

As illustrated in remote sharing servers and can communicate with any of computing devices and by way of network . Remote sharing server as illustrated in includes a storage component for storing content communicated from users of the sharing services offered by remote sharing service . Storage component can be a data store a database a file system or the like. Remote sharing server is implemented on a computing device having a storage component and that the computing device and the storage component are scalable. In some embodiments remote sharing server includes a number of machines across which traffic is load balanced. Additionally storage component can include a number of storage components hosted on various machines. The descriptions and illustrations herein are not intended to limit the configuration and or architecture of sharing servers such as those illustrated in .

According to an embodiment of the present invention remote sharing server receives a copy of an item to be shared from computing device and maintains copy in storage component . Access permission settings and other forms of security can be associated with copy and access is granted to users associated with computing devices and or depending upon the access permissions set via remote sharing server . As illustrated in remote sharing server also includes a storage component for maintaining copies of an item for sharing. In an embodiment remote sharing server communicates with remote sharing server for various reasons such as for example sharing items or copies of items between the two remote sharing servers and .

Turning now to another exemplary networking environment for use in implementing embodiments of the present invention is illustrated. Exemplary networking environment includes a first user user A and a second user user B that communicate with each other by way of LAN . In an embodiment user A and user B are not initially connected to LAN . Nothing in the description or illustration herein is intended to suggest that user A and user B should be connected to LAN and any given time. Networking environment also includes a remote sharing server having a storage component . Remote sharing server can communicate with user A and user B by way of network as illustrated in . In an embodiment remote sharing server is peer computing device where networking environment is a peer to peer networking environment. In other embodiments remote sharing server includes a website through which items can be shared.

As illustrated at user A invokes a sharing service application to facilitate sharing an item that resides on user A s computing device with user B . User B although not illustrated in is utilizing a computing device to communicate with various elements of exemplary networking environment . After navigating options lists and configurations that may in some embodiments be presented to user A by sharing service application sharing service application causes a copy of the item to be provided to remote sharing server . This copy is maintained on a storage component so that user B can access it.

In addition to providing copy to remote sharing server sharing service application also causes a set of access permission settings to be applied to item as illustrated at . In various embodiments access permission settings applied to item are similar to or the same as access permission settings associated with copy as maintained by remote sharing server . In other embodiments access permission settings are modified within computing device such as for example to change the format into a format compatible with computing device . The access permission settings are applied to item immediately upon initiating a sharing experience via sharing application . As illustrated at and respectively user B can access copy when remote sharing server has completed upload of copy and has completed any internal processes and functions related to providing a sharing service and user B may immediately access item from computing device provided that user B utilizes a computing device to connect to computing device . In some embodiments this connection includes a connection by way of LAN .

With reference to an illustrative screenshot of an exemplary user interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In an embodiment user interface UI is provided to a user of a computing device and is associated with local sharing applications and services as understood herein. UI includes various features that are present in various embodiments of the present invention such as for example a viewing window for displaying a hierarchical tree structure representative of an arrangement of a file system. As illustrated in UI also includes a viewing area for displaying representations of various folders or other items and can include interactive functionality such that a user can manipulate and manage items within UI .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a user can select one or more items for sharing with another user. For example in an embodiment a user selects item . An indication is communicated to the associated computing device that indicates that item has been selected for sharing with another user. As illustrated in UI also provides an indication to the user such as for example a change in appearance outline highlight or the like that is applied to item upon receiving a sharing selection.

In an embodiment once the user has selected item for sharing with another user various types of information associated with item are presented to the user as indicated in the information bar shown in . Additionally in an embodiment an icon is provided in viewing window to indicate that at least a portion of an item has been shared with other users. In other embodiments other visual indications that a portion of an item has been shared can be utilized.

After selecting item the user as illustrated in provides input by selecting a button that causes an additional UI to be displayed. In an embodiment additional UI includes a pull down menu. In another embodiment UI includes a window or other type of interface. In a further embodiment the user right clicks on item causing the display of a context menu that includes a button that can be used to invoke UI .

The additional UI presents a variety of options and to the user such as for example contact information or identification of users with whom the user can share items. Option illustrated in is an option that facilitates invocation of a remote sharing service. In various embodiments the additional UI provides a number of remote sharing service options and the inclusion of only one of such options in and the description here is not intended to limit the contents of such a UI.

Turning now to an exemplary screenshot of an illustrative UI according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown for the purpose of illustrating an embodiment of a method of sharing an item that resides on a first computing device having a display that renders UI . As illustrated in UI includes icons that represent items that can be shared with another user by way of a local sharing application and or remote sharing services. UI also includes a button on a task bar that facilitates presentation of sharing options incident to user input to button . According to an embodiment of the present invention a user positions cursor over an icon that represents an item that the user wishes to share. In other embodiments cursor is used to select several items that can be shared simultaneously.

Turning to UI is shown wherein the user has utilized cursor to select two items for sharing. An indication of the selection is presented on UI so that the user can see that items were selected. As shown in the user then moves cursor to position it over button . Upon selecting button as illustrated in a pull down menu is presented to the user. Button can be selected in various ways such as for example by clicking on the button with a mouse by tapping on the button with a stylus where the display is a touch screen display by a particular keystroke or series of keystrokes and the like.

As further illustrated in menu includes several options for choosing particular users with whom the selected items can be shared. Menu also includes remote sharing service options and for choosing one or more remote sharing services to invoke for sharing items. In an embodiment all of the remote sharing services that have registered with a computing device can be accessible from menu . Accordingly one aspect of the present invention provides the ability to plug all of the remote sharing service applications into one easily accessible location. As shown in the user has positioned curser over an option for invoking a Contoso Photo Service by which the user may share photos or other items with another user. Upon selection of option the Contoso Photo Service is invoked and a sharing service application provided by Contoso Photo Service which has been installed on the user s computer incident to the Contoso Photo Service registering with the user s computer is initiated.

The sharing service application provides another UI as illustrated in . UI facilitates sharing items with another user by way of Contoso Photo Service. As shown in UI includes various features such as an identification of the remote sharing service that provides UI a first option to sign in to the sharing service as a different user an icon that represents a storage component associated with the sharing service a text input box for applying a label to the shared items or to a container in which the shared items will be stored at the sharing service and a second option for accessing an additional UI that facilitates the selection of access permissions to be applied to shared items. The UI also includes additional options and for accepting option selections or canceling the invocation of the sharing service respectively. UI as illustrated in is only an example of a UI that can be provided by a remote sharing service. In some embodiments each remote sharing service has a differently configured UI that includes different options and functionalities than the UI illustrated herein.

As illustrated in the user has input a name of Wallpapers to the text input box and has positioned cursor over the OK button . Upon selecting the OK button in an embodiment copies of the items selected for sharing will be provided to Contoso Photo Service and will be accessible to another user that the user has selected in accordance with the access permissions that the user has applied to the copies of the items. In the illustrated embodiment the copies will be located in a container labeled Wallpapers. Simultaneously incident to selection of the OK button the sharing service application will interface with a local sharing application or service to apply the same access permissions to the actual items residing on the user computer such that the users having access permissions as defined within the Contoso Photo Service have immediate accessibility to the locally maintained items according to the same permissions.

To recapitulate we have described systems and methods for sharing an item that resides on a first computing device. Turning now to a flow diagram is provided that shows an illustrative example of a method of sharing an item that resides on a first computing device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In various embodiments the item can be a file a folder containing a plurality of files a program and the like. In other embodiments the item can be a device such as a printer scanner connected hard drive and the like. At a step an indication that an item is to be shared with a user who is associated with a user identifier is received. In an embodiment the user identifier is an identifier used by the remote sharing service to identify the user. In some embodiments the remote sharing service generates the identifier and provides it to the first computing device. In other embodiments other services or entities can generate and or provide the user identifier.

At step an access permission is received. In various embodiments users set access permissions that allow various levels or types of access to an item such as for example read only edit full access and the like. At step a copy of the item is provided to a remote sharing service. In an embodiment the remote sharing service permits the user to access the copy of the item based on the user identifier being authenticated by the sharing service. Additionally as shown at step the user identifier is associated with an attribute of the item to permit the user to access the item via a LAN. In embodiments the LAN facilitates communication between a second computing device which is associated with the user and the first computing device. In various embodiments the attribute that is modified is a security descriptor that includes an ACL. According to embodiments of the present invention associating the user identifier with the attribute makes the item immediately available to the user by way of the LAN. In a final illustrative step step the attribute of the item is modified to reflect the access permission.

Turning now to another flow diagram is provided that shows an illustrative example of a method of sharing an item that resides on a first computer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At a step a user interface is provided that enables interaction with a remote sharing service. The user interface as shown at step presents sharing options for configuring the user s sharing experience corresponding to the item such that the user is permitted to access a copy of the item by way of the remote sharing service according to sharing options. In various embodiments the sharing options can include access permissions selections of users or other options that impact the user s sharing experience.

At a step a selection of one or more of the sharing options is received and at step a copy of the item is provided to the sharing service. At step an attribute of the item is modified to permit the user immediate access to the item from a second computing device upon establishing a connection with the first computing device. In an embodiment the attribute is a security descriptor which includes a DACL.

In various embodiments the connection between the two computing devices includes a network common to the two computing devices such as for example a LAN or a WAN that includes a number of LANs. At a step the user is notified that the copy of the item is available to the user by way of the remote sharing service. In an embodiment a process located on the first computing device provides the notification. In other embodiments the remote sharing service provides the notification. At a final illustrative step step the user is also notified that the item is available to the user by way of access e.g. through a LAN WAN and the like to the first computing device. The order in which the notifications are presented can occur opposite the order presented above. Additionally the notifications can occur simultaneously as can various other steps in this and other embodiments of the method.

Turning now to a final illustrative flow diagram is provided that shows another example of a method of sharing an item that resides on a first computing device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At a step an option for invoking a remote sharing service that facilitates sharing the item with a user is provided. The sharing service maintains an association between the user and a user identifier. At a step the remote sharing service is invoked and at step a copy of the item that can be accessed by the user is provided to the sharing service such that permission to access the copy is based upon the user identifier. In an embodiment invoking the remote sharing service causes a UI to be provided. In other embodiments invocation of the sharing service results in retrieval of a web page associated with the sharing service that includes a UI.

At step an attribute of the item is modified such that permission to access the item is associated with the user identifier. The modification makes the item immediately available to the user by way of a LAN that connects the first computing device with a second computing device associated with the user. At step an indication that the user is attempting to access the item via the LAN is received and at a step the user s association with the user identifier is verified. At a final illustrative step step the user is granted access to the item.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not depart from its scope. A skilled artisan may develop alternative means of implementing the aforementioned improvements without departing from the scope of the present invention.

For example in one embodiment a sharing service application may be installed as a plug in function to a local sharing application. In another embodiment a sharing service application may be automatically installed pursuant to a request to install communicated from a sharing server to a computing device. In a further embodiment an update functionality may be incorporated such that an ACL associated with an item is automatically updated to reflect a change in a user identifier associated with a copy of the item hosted by a sharing service.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a control panel user interface may be provided which displays all of the items that can be shared and includes various tools and objects that facilitate sharing the items with other users. In another embodiment a sharing subfolder is provided within a start menu. Selection of the subfolder can invoke various aspects of the present invention.

It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. Not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out in the specific order described.

