---

title: System for predictive analytics using real-world pharmaceutical transactions
abstract: A system for predictive analytics using real-world pharmaceutical transactions includes a computer having a processor and memory, a data collection component configured to aggregate data for a plurality of pharmaceutical transactions, and a data reduction module configured to eliminate non-compliant transactions to generate a reduced transaction data set. An analysis module applies multiple linear regression analysis to a portion of the reduced transaction data set to identify key regression variables that correlate with an excess total return to shareholders. The analysis module also applies logistic regression analysis to a portion of the reduced transaction data set to identify key regression variables that correlate with an increased probability of regulatory agency approval. A report generator provides a graphical output of the identified key regression variables and a probability value corresponding to a likelihood of regulatory agency approval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08140377&OS=08140377&RS=08140377
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08140377
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20080714
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from co pending provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 049 914 filed on May 2 2008 entitled System For Predictive Analytics Using Real World Pharmaceutical Transactions. Application Ser. No. 61 049 914 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to predictive analytics in the pharmaceutical industry. In particular this disclosure relates to predicting the likelihood of success of a real world pharmaceutical transaction based on analysis of prior pharmaceutical transactions.

Pharmaceutical companies often venture outside of their own organizations in search of new assets to develop in their pipeline and to ultimately bring to market. These deals may be in the form of a purchase license joint development strategic arrangement or other business transaction. However the key factors and conditions that predict and quantify a successful business transaction or relationship have not been established. Typically pharmaceutical industry experts have relied on relationships qualitative evidence intuition or experience based rules of thumb when establishing licensing programs or collaborative arrangements. However there has been no quantitative evidence to prove that any of these techniques are successful in selecting deals that create more value. Reliance on such factors does not necessarily increase the probability that the transaction will be successful. An unmet need exists to identify and quantify the factors and conditions that correspond to successful pharmaceutical business transactions or relationships.

The pressure on pharmaceutical companies to achieve high performance and deliver new products has never been greater. With revenues eroding because of expiring patents and generic competition companies are in a collective scramble to acquire new compounds. In search of the next innovation companies have been through a decade of whirlwind deal making to bring in products from external sources. Whether through licensing or more elaborate business development investments the number and value of these deals are only expected to increase.

However only a small portion of these deals result in successful products. To increase the success of these efforts to feed the pipeline companies have two strategic options. The pharmaceutical companies can either engage in more deals or they can become increasingly selective and engage in fewer deals. The pharmaceutical industry now relies heavily on the first strategy raising its level of investment in the hope of yielding a higher absolute number of successful products. Because there are limited resources for investing in new deals there is a need for a tool that can assist pharmaceutical companies to be more selective and to engage in fewer deals that have a higher probability of successful returns.

The system and method for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions addresses a second option namely increasing selectivity in the business development deals a company makes by identifying the characteristics that make a deal most likely to succeed. One embodiment of a system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions includes a computer having a processor and memory a data collection component configured to aggregate data for a plurality of pharmaceutical transactions where the aggregate data corresponds to publicly traded financial data based upon a predetermined time period surrounding a public announcement of the respective pharmaceutical transaction.

A data reduction module eliminates non compliant transactions to generate a reduced transaction data set and an analysis module applies multiple linear regression analysis to a portion of the reduced transaction data set to identify key regression variables that correlate with an excess total shareholder return. The key regression variables that were statistically significant in this analysis were drug development phase deal type compound or drug type and therapeutic area. The analysis module also applies logistic regression analysis to a portion of the reduced transaction data set to identify key regression variables that correlate with an increased probability of regulatory agency approval. A report generator provides a graphical output of the identified key regression variables and a probability value corresponding to a likelihood of regulatory agency approval.

Other embodiments of systems methods features and their corresponding advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

As shown in a system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions provides a platform for applying a statistically rigorous process that identifies deal or transaction characteristics that are likely to predict success. The specific embodiment of is a high level hardware block diagram of a computer system on which the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions may be implemented. The system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions may be embodied as a system cooperating with computer hardware components and or as a computer implemented method.

The system includes a predictive analytic engine or processor which in turn includes an analysis module or processor a comparator module a data collection component a data reduction module and a report generator . The predictive analytic engine may be a hardware component and or may performed processes in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The system includes a computer or processing system which includes various hardware components such as RAM ROM hard disk storage cache memory database storage and the like also referred to as memory subsystem . The computer system may include any suitable processing device such as a computer microprocessor RISC processor reduced instruction set computer CISC processor complex instruction set computer mainframe computer work station single chip computer distributed processor server controller micro controller discrete logic computer and the like as is known in the art. For example the processing device may be an Intel Pentium microprocessor x86 compatible microprocessor or equivalent device.

The memory subsystem may include any suitable storage components such as RAM EPROM electrically programmable ROM flash memory dynamic memory static memory FIFO first in first out memory LIFO last in first out memory circular memory semiconductor memory bubble memory buffer memory disk memory optical memory cache memory and the like. Any suitable form of memory may be used whether fixed storage on a magnetic medium storage in a semiconductor device or remote storage accessible through a communication link. A user or system manager interface may be coupled to the computer system and may include various input devices such as switches selectable by the system manager and or a keyboard. The user interface also may include suitable output devices such as an LCD display a CRT various LED indicators and or a speech output device as is known in the art.

To facilitate communication between the computer system and external sources a communication interface may be operatively coupled to the computer system. The communication interface may be for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network intranet Internet or other suitable network . The communication interface may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN or POTS plain old telephone system which may facilitate communication via the Internet . Dedicated and remote networks may also be employed and the system may further communicate with external exchanges and sources of information . Any suitable commercially available communication device or network may be used.

Several factors or predictors can indicate which external sourcing arrangements or deal has the best prospects of becoming a winner. In one specific embodiment the term success may be identified based on two separate criteria. A first measure of success is defined as a deal that increases shareholder value excess total return to shareholders TRS or ETRS . Excess total return to shareholders may be defined as the 11 day compounded TRS as defined by CRSP minus the 11 day compounded TRS of a corresponding index. In one embodiment the normal return is defined as the TRS AMEX pharma for a pharmaceutical company and AMEX biotech for a biotech company. An 11 day window is a common time frame used in financial transactions because 11 days is believed to be an adequately long window for capturing the market s reaction to the event namely the announcement of the deal while still being sufficiently short so as to limit the impact of other corporate events. Data points may be omitted where other major events occurred during the 11 day window. Other timeframes may be used such as a week a month a quarter or a year.

A second measure of success is defined as a deal that results in eventual FDA Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory body approval of the drug compound that is the subject of the deal. Preferably deals where the drug under evaluation are approved or terminated are analyzed. Deals with ongoing research or pending FDA approval are excluded. Analysis logistic regression for Phase I deals are excluded because few Phase I compounds have received approval from the FDA.

In one embodiment the predictive analytics engine applies regression analysis multiple linear regression and logistic regression to identify factors that correlate with a deal s success. Many factors were investigated and analyzed. Such factors may include 

The predictive analytics engine identified four predictors of a deal s success based on regression analysis of the above enumerated factors. The four predictors or key regression variables are applicable to the first measure of success TRS and to the second measure of success eventual FDA approval and include 

The predictive analytics engine includes the analysis module or engine configured to analyze real world data. The analysis module may apply a multiple linear regression process to measure or determine the occurrence and magnitude of excess total return to shareholders TRS for both the buyer and the seller the first measure of success . This process may identify predictors of success e.g. a higher excess total return to shareholders as certain factors are determined to be statistically significant through the analysis. For example in one embodiment several factors were determined to be the key predictors of success. In another embodiment analysis may be bounded by an 11 day window around the deal announcement five days before and five days after . The analysis module may then apply a logistic regression process to determine the type of deal that positively correlates with FDA approval the second measure of success .

Different regression processes may be used to analyze the data for either the multiple linear regression process first measure of success excess total return to shareholders or the logistic regression process second measure of success eventual FDA approval . For example regression trees Chi squared regression least squares regression regression sum of sequences error sum of sequences orthogonal regression and other regression processes and techniques may be used.

By way of background regarding the first predictor phase Phase I compounds relate to clinical trials that are in the FDA phase I of clinical testing in human subjects. Normally a small 20 80 group of healthy volunteers is selected. This phase includes trials designed to assess the safety pharmacovigilance tolerability pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of a drug. These trials are often conducted in an in patient clinic where the subject can be observed by full time staff. The subject who receives the drug is usually observed until several half lives of the drug have passed. Phase I trials also normally include dose ranging referred to as dose escalation which determines the appropriate dose for therapeutic use. The tested range of doses will usually be a fraction of the dose that causes harm in animal testing. Phase I trials most often include healthy volunteers. However there are some circumstances when real patients are used such as patients who have end stage disease and lack other treatment options. This exception to the rule most often occurs in oncology cancer and HIV drug trials. Volunteers are paid an inconvenience fee for their time spent in the volunteer centre. Pay ranges from a small amount of money for a short period of residence to a larger amount depending on the length of participation.

Once the initial safety of the study drug has been confirmed in Phase I trials Phase II trials are performed on larger groups 20 300 and are designed to assess how well the drug works as well as to continue Phase I safety assessments in a larger group of volunteers and patients. The development process for a new drug usually fails during Phase II trials when the drug is discovered not to work as planned or if it is discovered to have toxic effects. Phase II studies are sometimes divided into Phase IIA and Phase IIB. Phase IIA is specifically designed to assess dosing requirements how much drug should be given whereas Phase IIB is specifically designed to study efficacy how well the drug works at the prescribed dose s . Some trials combine Phase I and Phase II and test both efficacy and toxicity. Some Phase II trials are designed as case series to demonstrate a drug s safety and activity in a selected group of patients. Other Phase II trials are designed as randomized clinical trials where some patients receive the drug device and others receive placebo standard treatment. Randomized Phase II trials have far fewer patients than randomized Phase III trials.

Phase III studies are randomized controlled multi center trials on large patient groups 300 3 000 subjects or more depending upon the disease medical condition studied and are aimed at being the definitive assessment of how effective the drug is in comparison with current gold standard treatment. Because of their size and comparatively long duration Phase III trials are the most expensive time consuming and difficult trials to design and run especially in therapies for chronic medical conditions. It is common practice that certain Phase III trials will continue while the regulatory submission is pending at the appropriate regulatory agency. This allows patients to continue to receive possibly lifesaving drugs until the drug can be obtained by purchase. Other reasons for performing trials at this stage include attempts by the sponsor at label expansion to show the drug works for additional types of patients diseases beyond the original use for which the drug was approved for marketing to obtain additional safety data or to support marketing claims for the drug. While not required in all cases it is typically expected that there be at least two successful Phase III trials demonstrating a drug s safety and efficacy in order to obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies. The above description of Phase I Phase III may be found at http en.wikipedia.org wiki clinical trial.

With respect to the first predictor involving TRS first measure of success the market clearly rewards buyers of Phase III compounds with a prediction confidence level p where p 0.09. Defining what is statistically significant depends on what the real life occurrence is expected to be and what is normally accepted in the industry. In one embodiment a value of p

For Phase II deals a much stronger link exists between market reaction at deal announcement and the likelihood of FDA approval. This suggests that Phase II deals with higher TRS at the deal announcement have a higher probability of being approved. shows the excess TRS to buyers as the left hand bar of each pair of bars and the excess TRS to sellers as the right hand bar in each pair of bars.

With respect to the second predictor the type of deal is shown in Table 2 below ranging from a less complex deal to a more complex deal.

In one embodiment the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions shows unexpected and surprising results with respect to the second predictor deal type involving TRS first measure of success . In the hierarchy of deal types the common assumption has been that simple asset purchases or licensing deals are likely to create more value than more collaborative arrangements. Most licensing and business development executives prefer arms length transactions with simpler deal terms. Research and Development executives similarly prefer the clarity of control that is associated with simpler deals.

However the simpler is better assumption has not been confirmed by a rigorous study of the historical deal record. The system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions and in particular the predictive analytics engine indicates that simpler transactions are not necessarily advantageous. Although a simpler deal may be less costly easier to explain to management and relatively easy to negotiate and manage simple deals such as licensing transactions create less shareholder value for the buyer than more complex deals such as collaborative arrangements. Simpler deals also have a lower probability of obtaining FDA approval p 0.06 in Phase II p 0.20 in Phase III .

More complex deals such as collaborative arrangements generally create higher shareholder value p 0.01 in Phase I p 0.34 in Phase II . For Phase I compounds collaborative deals rather than simple licensing deals create more value for the buyer than other types of deals p 0.02 for noncompetitive collaborations p 0.01 for competitive collaborations . This may reflect that the seller in these collaborations is expressing confidence in the product but simply lacks some of the resources or capabilities needed to carry it to market.

The buying company s shareholders appear to suffer particularly from licensing deals for compounds in Phase II p 0.17 . For example when Shire licensed Pyridorin in Phase II from BioStratum in November 2000 to develop an extended release version of the diabetic kidney disease drug Shire shares lost 25.9 percent in value. Once reason for this occurrence is that in every deal there exists an imbalance of information. The seller almost always has more information than the buyer. Deals in which the seller insists on keeping skin in the game may signal the company s confidence in the asset. In such deals the seller prefers risky profit sharing rather than safe up front cash and wants to remain involved in the product s development.

In contrast a seller that prefers to off load the product in an arms length transaction as in a simple licensing deal is more likely to have negative information about the asset. What occurs in more complex collaborations is that the seller resolves the imbalance of information inherent in every deal. For that reason these deal types are favored by the market and predict the likelihood of FDA approval.

With respect to the third predictor for success compound type the value that comes from a deal involving small or large molecule compounds depends on whether a company is the buyer or the seller. Deals for small molecule compounds are more likely to generate higher shareholder value for buyers p 0.29 0.20 for Phase I and Phase III respectively . Deals for large molecule compounds generate more value for sellers p 0.33 0.16 for Phase I and Phase II respectively . Small molecule drug are usually defined as a medicinal drug compound having a molecular weight of less than 1000 Daltons and typically between 300 and 700 Daltons. These drugs are not made in living cells but instead are made using highly reproducible processes involving chemical analysis. Small molecule drugs are often defined completely by their atomic structure rather than by their manufacturing processes and are administered orally in pill form. Large molecule drugs are usually defined as a drug with a molecular weight larger than 1000 Daltons. One example is biologics. Biologics are made through complex manufacturing processes that depend on biological organisms e.g. yeast or bacteria. It is often difficult to directly compare one biotech product to another because the complexity of the manufacturing processes is central to the identity and characteristics of the final biological drug. Some examples of large molecule drugs include but are not limited to proteins antibodies cytokines hormones and stem cells.

One reason underlying this surprising result may be that small molecule compounds are lower priced while large molecule compounds demand a higher premium. To illustrate the different effects on the buyer of small vs. large molecule products consider these examples. When Watson Pharmaceuticals bought Aslera a Phase III small molecule compound for the treatment of lupus from Genelabs its shares gained an impressive 19.1 percent in value. But when Bristol Myers Squibb bought Erbitux a Phase III biologic compound for treatment of colorectal cancer from ImClone Bristol Myers Squibb s market value dropped 6.2 percent.

For sellers of small versus large molecule products the reverse is true. For example when Cypress Bioscience sold small molecule Milnacipran for fibromyalgia syndrome in Phase III to Forest Laboratories in 2004 Cypress Bioscience lost 24.1 percent in total shareholder return. Compare that to what happened to ImClone when it signed that deal to sell Erbitux a biologic compound to Bristol Myers Squibb. The sale rewarded ImClone shareholders with a 31.8 percent increase in value.

Deals involving large molecule compounds are also less likely to receive FDA approval p 0.26 in Phase II . Further compounds out licensed by biotechnology companies have a lower probability of gaining FDA approval than compounds out licensed by pharmaceutical companies p 0.08 for biotechnology out licensing to biotechnology and p 0.25 for biotechnology out licensing to pharmaceutical companies .

With respect to the fourth predictor for success therapeutic area the types of therapeutic areas are shown in Table 3 below 

Group 4 Blood Disease Oncology is the therapeutic category most favored by the market at least for early phase compounds p 0.14 in Phase I . But when compounds in this therapeutic category are in the later stage the market prefers other therapeutic areas such as group 1 therapeutic category Allergy Infection Anti inflammatory Pain Dermatology where p 0.03 0.23 for Phases II and III . For example consider the Vitaxin deal in February 2001 when MedImmune and Targesome agreed to collaborate on a Phase I compound for targeted anticancer radiotherapy. MedImmune s shareholders enjoyed a 15.5 percent increase in value because of the purchase. Also when Merck bought Phase I AGS PSCA Antibody from Agensys for cancer therapy in 2005 Merck gained 7 percent in total shareholder return.

However when Bristol Myers Squibb bought the late stage biologic compound Erbitux its shares lost 6.2 percent in value. Likewise when Adherex Technologies bought Eniluracil to enhance the effectiveness of an oncology agent in Phase III from GlaxoSmithKline Adherex lost 3.1 percent in TRS. In that deal GlaxoSmithKline lost 5.3 percent in TRS.

The market very likely prefers certain therapeutic areas in early phases because riskier compounds with higher market potential such as those in blood disease oncology are more reasonably priced in these stages. But cancer drugs that have reached Phase III carry a heavy premium because they are highly sought after. The market does not reward buyers of these compounds believing that the asset may be overpriced.

In deals for allergy infection anti inflammatory pain dermatology compounds the market is more likely to favor late stage deals. For compounds in these therapeutic areas there is less unmet demand so the product is more reasonably priced in later stages. This is understandable because those compounds may not be viewed as especially innovative or their market may be saturated.

In another embodiment the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions and or the predictive analytics engine have also identified the four predictors of a deal s success with respect to FDA approval second measure of success . These four predictors or drivers of commercial success correlate positively with a higher probability of FDA approval.

With respect to the second measure of success FDA approval and the first predictor phase processing based on the above example using the transaction base of 18 194 and subsequently reduced to eliminate non compliant transactions described below determined that 28 compounds were approved vs. 17 terminated or 62 of compounds in Phase III deals were approved compounds in development or pending approval were excluded . For Phase II deals 14 compounds were approved vs. 39 terminated or 26 of compounds in Phase II deals were approved. Compare these percentages with industry success rates of Phase III which have fallen from 75 to about 60 over the last 5 years and compare to the industry success rates of Phase II which have fallen from 40 to 25 over the last 5 years.

With respect to the second measure of success FDA approval and the second predictor deal type all deal types except for simple licensing deals correlate positively with an increased probability of FDA approval. Simple licensing deal have a negative correlation.

With respect to the second measure of success FDA approval and the third predictor compound type for Phase II deals small molecule deals had a higher probability of FDA approval than biologics.

With respect to the second measure of success FDA approval and the fourth predictor therapeutic area for Phase III deals all therapeutic areas except for Group 1 Allergy Pain Infection Group 4 Blood Disease Oncology and Group 6 Kidney Liver Metabolic correlate positively with an increased probability of FDA approval. For Phase II deals Group 1 Allergy Pain Infection deals have a higher probability of FDA approval than all other therapeutic areas.

Using logistic regression based on the predictors identified above a probability of FDA approval can be determined. Table 4 below represents a spreadsheet for calculating a probability value for Phase II deals.

The spreadsheet formula for Cell C11 is shown below EXP H4 SUMPRODUCT C4 C9 H5 H10 1 EXP H4 SUMPRODUCT C4 C9 H5 H10 

The above spreadsheet formula in cell C11 indicates that for the value of the variables shown there is a 64 probability that FDA approval will be obtained. Logistic regression was performed on Phase II and Phase III data and on the combined dataset. Depending on how the logistic regression is run different regression equations emerge with distinct coefficients for the statistically significant variables. Such variables may be entered into column G with their coefficients entered into column H each time a logistic regression model for the dataset is created. The significance of this is 1 as more deal data is gathered the predictor model becomes more accurate and 2 depending on the dataset that is used for analysis the key drivers of success for a deal may change. For example if 10 000 more deals are added to the dataset it is possible that other factors such as for example prior relationship with partner may become statistically significant and may become a key success driver in deals. The formula is in the form of e 1 e where x is the intercept value plus the sum of products. The descriptions of the variables in cells B4 B9 are shown in Table 5 below. The corresponding parameter values are located in cells H5 H9 and the intercept value is located in cell H4 

Table 6 below represents a spreadsheet for calculating a probability value for Phase III deals. The spreadsheet formula is the same as shown above 

The above spreadsheet formula in cell C11 indicates that for the value of the variables shown there is a 49 probability that FDA approval will be obtained. The formula is in the form of e 1 e where x is the intercept value plus the sum of products. The descriptions of the variables in cells B4 B9 are shown in Table 7 below. The corresponding parameter values are located in cells H5 H9 and the intercept value is located in cell H4 

In one example the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions may process a large number of pharmaceutical deals or transactions. The number of deals analyzed may be reduced to exclude non compliant deals. In one specific example the data collection component inspected data from 18 194 deals during a ten year period from about 1997 to about 2006. Data was extracted from Recombinant Capital s rDNA s database. The data reduction module eliminated non compliant transactions to generate a reduced transaction data set. Data regarding total return to shareholders was obtained from the Center for Research in Security Prices CRSP and Yahoo Finance.

With regard to the first measure of success TRS and application of multiple linear regression certain non compliant deals were excluded to obtain the reduced transaction data set as shown in Table 8 below. In this specific example the initial data set of 18 194 deals was reduced to about 355 deals before applying statistical analyses. For the deals that had TRS information multiple linear regression was applied to measure the magnitude of excess TRS. For the deals in Phase II and Phase III that had approval information approved or rejected logistic regression was applied to measure the likelihood of eventual FDA approval.

With regard to the second measure of success FDA approval and application of a logistic regression process to determine the type of deal that positively correlates with FDA approval deals with ongoing research or pending FDA approval were excluded. An FDA response was required to serve as the dependant variable. The reduced transaction data set corresponding to the second measure of success was augmented with drug approval data from Drugs FDA. Note that the reduced transaction data set used in determining the first measure of success TRS may have a different size than the reduced transaction data set used in determining the second measure of success FDA approval due to the different exclusion criteria.

The report generator provides a graphical or hard copy output indicating the predictors or success excess total return to shareholders and or the probability value associated with the likelihood of FDA approval.

Note that although the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions and or the predictive analytics engine predicts success of a deal based on FDA approval as one measure any regulatory body approval may be used as the measure. Accordingly other regulatory agencies may include the Therapeutic Goods Administration TGA Australia the European Medicines Agency EMEA European Union the Japan Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare MHLW and the like.

The predictors of success determined by the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions are in some instances surprising unexpected and counter intuitive. For example the analysis results indicate that competitive collaborations not simple licensing deals are most likely to increase shareholder value and gain FDA approval. Other analysis results indicate that the stock market clearly rewards buyers of Phase III compounds. However the analysis results also indicate that there is no correlation between an enthusiastic market reaction and eventual FDA approval. This is surprising and counter intuitive.

Further when considering what is good for a buyer versus what is good for a seller in the making of a pharmaceutical deal the answer depends on whether the deal is for a small or a large molecule compound. Accordingly the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions can assess a deal s potential for success and it can provide insight on how a strategic approach to licensing and business development can increase a company s competitive power and accelerate its drive for high performance.

The predictors of success determined by the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions can maximize shareholder value through licensing and business development investments and improve the effectiveness of a company s licensing and business development strategy by sharpening the ability to select from the prospects at hand. A company may do this in a short term timeframe and in a long term timeframe.

In the short term the most effective way for companies to drive shareholder value and improve the likelihood of FDA approval is to form collaborative partnerships second predictor . The success of these collaborations is attributed to the confidence in the product expressed by the seller s willingness to put skin in the game. 

In the longer term evaluation of the results is more complex. If the level of investment required to acquire attractive product innovations continues to grow at the current rate many companies will find themselves in an arms race of continual escalation of licensing and business development investments and participation in this race soon becomes unfeasible. Thus companies must be skillful in choosing the right deals and must make difficult and judicious choices about which deals to pursue.

However in the deal selection process what is good for the buyer may be different from what is good for the seller. Results from the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions in one embodiment indicate that buyers should take the following actions 

Results from the system for predictive analytics using real world pharmaceutical transactions in one embodiment indicate that sellers should take the following actions 

The results shown in the following tables Table 9 Table 19 may be generated by the comparator module of the predictive analytics engine . Table 9 provides a summary illustrating how buyers can maximize TRS with regard to phase I deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 10 provides a summary illustrating how buyers can maximize TRS with regard to phase II deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 11 provides a summary illustrating how buyers can maximize TRS with regard to phase III deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 12 provides a summary illustrating how buyers can maximize TRS with regard to phase I II and III deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases in the specific phase based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 13 provides a summary illustrating how sellers can maximize TRS with regard to phase I deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 14 provides a summary illustrating how sellers can maximize TRS with regard to phase II deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 15 provides a summary illustrating how sellers can maximize TRS with regard to phase III deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 16 provides a summary illustrating how sellers can maximize TRS with regard to phase I II and III deals. The table indicates whether TRS increases or decreases in the specific phase based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 17 provides a summary illustrating the factors that influence the probability of drug approval with regard to phase II deals. The table indicates whether the probability increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 18 provides a summary illustrating the factors that influence the probability of drug approval with regard to phase III deals. The table indicates whether the probability increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

Table 19 provides a summary illustrating the factors that influence the probability of drug approval with regard to in licensed deals for phase II and phase III. The table indicates whether the probability increases or decreases based on the illustrated factors and provides a corresponding confidence level.

However graphically illustrates that for phase II deals a much stronger link between market reaction at the time of deal announcement and the likelihood of FDA approval exists. In this case for example the deals having the top 25 in TRS had a greater number of FDA approvals than deals in the bottom 25 in TRS.

The logic circuitry and processing described above may be encoded in a computer readable medium such as a CDROM disk flash memory RAM or ROM an electromagnetic signal or other machine readable medium as instructions for execution by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the logic may be implemented as analog or digital logic using hardware such as one or more integrated circuits or one or more processors executing instructions or in software in an application programming interface API or in a Dynamic Link Library DLL functions available in a shared memory or defined as local or remote procedure calls or as a combination of hardware and software.

The logic may be represented in e.g. stored on or in a computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium. The media may comprise any device that contains stores communicates propagates or transports executable instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or infrared signal or a semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium includes a magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory i.e. EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which executable instructions are printed as the logic may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan and then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

The systems may include additional or different logic and may be implemented in many different ways. A controller may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or other types of memory. Parameters e.g. conditions and thresholds and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. Programs and instruction sets may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

