---

title: Bi-directional optical link between multiple data sources and a processing node in an avionics platform
abstract: A fiber optic link for platforms with data sources including, e.g., sensors, cameras, radars and antennas. An array of optical transmitter/receiver pairs is coupled to an integrating network of the platform. Data modules are each coupled to certain ones of the data sources and include a receiver for detecting control data, and a modulator for modulating a light signal according to signals from the module's data sources. At least one optical fiber is coupled between a given transmitter/receiver pair of the array, and a corresponding data module. A laser source associated with each transmitter supplies a light signal with the control data to a corresponding data module downstream over an optical fiber. The light signal is modulated by the signals from the module's data sources, and the modulated light signal is returned to an array receiver upstream over an optical fiber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032032&OS=08032032&RS=08032032
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08032032
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081114
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Prime Contract No. H94003 04 D 0002 0016 awarded by the United States Air Force. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The aerospace operating environment is hostile and it imposes many constraints on the engineering and design of avionics systems. Most critical is the stringent operational temperature range of from 55 C. to 125 C. Optical devices are especially susceptible to temperatures that might lead to a link failure or other catastrophic loss and the use of cooling or heating units only increases system size weight and power SWAP as well as cost. As a result advanced jet fighters like the F35 still use IEEE 1394B protocols for electrical data distribution over copper Cu wire in their flight and mission control systems.

Optical networking technologies are expected to revolutionize next generation avionics and naval communication systems. Optical systems offer substantial improvements over Cu wire systems in reliability size weight power efficiency cost security immunity to electromagnetic interference and networking capability. Skyrocketing fuel prices and an ever increasing demand for bandwidth make it necessary to build avionics platform networks with reduced SWAP but are nevertheless flexible scalable and upgradeable with minimal installation and lifetime operation costs. With reduced SWAP an air fighter can carry more fuel and ordinance over greater distances.

Optical networks are potentially capable of meeting all of the above requirements. A so called Requirement of Optical Networks in Avionics RONIA program at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA estimates a total backbone capacity of about 1.4 Tb s with about 400 nodes and over 500 links for an air fighter. The data rate per node is expected to be 1 Gb s or greater. For example a significant weight reduction may be achieved by eliminating heavy Cu cables. Optical data networks also offer a large suite of other benefits including resistance to electromagnetic interference EMI and unauthorized tapping very large bandwidth protocol transparency low loss low crosstalk with more than 40 dB isolation corrosion resistance and no radiation fire ignition or electrocution hazards.

Despite their widespread use in commercial and residential deployments optical networks currently deployed in avionics largely comprise point to point multimode fiber links operating at a 850 nm wavelength and use so called Fiber Channel protocols for storage. As a result electronic communications are still carried out mainly over Cu wiring employing ARINC 429 Avionics Full Duplex Switched Ethernet AFDX IEEE 1394 and US MIL STD 1553B Standards. The IEEE 1394 protocol is used on the Joint Strike Fighter for vehicle management systems and it supports a 400 Mb s data transfer rate. AFDX which is ARINC 664 Part 7 presently supports a 100 Mb s data rate.

Current aerospace optical fiber back plane networks can be complicated and costly to maintain and repair and typically require built in tests BIT and fault diagnosis procedures in their construction. Ideally there should be a minimal number of different spare parts needed to service the network and replacements should preferably be carried out at a module level with ease of access.

System sensors radar RF antennas and cameras are the eyes and ears of an aircraft. They are sources of raw signals or data that need to be processed by an integrated core processor ICP located remotely from the various sources and analyzed by the flight crew and or other subsystems. shows typical communication networks and systems within an airborne platform. The networks include for example networks for navigation RF communications tactical response munitions control identification and surveillance electronic warfare and storage. The platform also typically has a flight control and vehicle management system. Each network or system may use a different communication protocol and operate essentially independently. Communications to and from the platform are typically carried by RF waveforms while flows of data within the platform between the various sources and the ICP may be either RF or digital baseband with increasing movement toward the latter. The data may be continuous random or bursty.

In a data centric system the core of an integration of the various platform systems should preferably be a unified network or data bus that will support transparent operation of a variety of otherwise incompatible protocols of the different systems. Optical networks can support the various protocols whether analog or digital. The ability of a core integrating network to support both analog and digital signals would provide a significant gain in SWAP by eliminating the present need for a separate RF cabling infrastructure.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0062553 Apr. 1 2004 describes a bidirectional optical link between first and second data units using a single optical source. In the disclosed embodiment the first data unit is a transmit receive unit associated with an aircraft. The second data unit is a ground terminal including a modulator optical receiver system. A splitter element in the optical receiver system receives a modulated optical signal from an optical source in the first data unit. The incoming optical signal is split into a received portion and an outgoing portion. The received optical portion is detected and converted to an electrical signal. A return modulator element modulates the outgoing optical portion and transmits same to the first data unit. The modulation of the outgoing optical portion allows the link to use a single shared optical source according to the 553 publication.

A full duplex optical transmission link is disclosed in L. D. Westbrook et al. Simultaneous bi directional analogue fiber optic transmission using an electro absorption modulator Electronics Letters vol. 32 no 19 Sep. 12 1996 at pages 1806 07. A downlink laser transmitter and a photodetector receiver are provided at the head end of an optical link consisting of a downlink fiber and an uplink fiber. A single electro absorption EA device is used as a simultaneous photodetector receiver and modulator transmitter at a remote end of the link. A duplexer is coupled to the EA device at the remote end and full duplex communication between the transmitters and the receivers at both ends of the link may be accomplished as reported in the article.

The present invention provides a bi directional optical link suitable for avionics as well as naval platforms wherein multiple sensors cameras radars and or antennas can be linked with a processing node in the platform in such a manner as to reduce equipment size weight power consumption and cost.

According to the invention a fiber optic link suitable for avionics or naval platforms having a number of platform data sources includes a processing node associated with an integrating network of platform an array of one or more optical transmitter receiver pairs in the vicinity of the node and an interface for coupling the array with the integrating network. A number of data modules are each coupled to one or more associated platform data sources and include a an optical receiver for detecting control data input to the module and b an optical modulator arranged to modulate a light signal according to signals received from the associated data sources. One or more optical fibers are coupled between each transmitter receiver pair of the array and a corresponding data module.

Each transmitter of the array has an associated laser source operative to supply a downstream light signal including module control data over an optical fiber to an input of a corresponding data module. The modulator at the corresponding module modulates the light signal according to signals from the data sources and the modulated light signal is returned over a fiber upstream to a receiver of the array.

For a better understanding of the invention reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing and the appended claims.

To reduce the number of transmitters fibers and other components and to take advantage of recent innovations in so called fiber to the home FTTH networks so called passive optical networks PON with desired redundancies may be considered for use in avionics platforms. A PON architecture with protective switching is shown in . The architecture of may support WDM PON if power splitters are replaced by optical multiplexers Mux and demultiplexers Demux or dynamically reconfigurable optical add drop multiplexers ROADM . In the PON data is first multiplexed using TDM. Then multiple TDM data streams are statistically multiplexed using MAC protocols. Known commercial FTTH architectures support up to 64 end users from a head end depending on the data rates and type of PON. Since at present there is widespread deployment of FTTH based on the overall architecture of both optical and electronic components are available inexpensively. The architecture also allows transmission of both baseband data and RF signals on the same fiber at either a single or two wavelengths.

As illustrated in the link includes an array of one or more optical e.g. laser transmitter receiver pairs TX RX TX RX . . . TXn RXn. The array is preferably maintained in a temperature controlled environment to ensure stability at its operating wavelength s and has an associated network interface . The array and associated interface define a processing node that may be physically located for example within an avionics rack where other like processing nodes may also be installed.

Each of a number of data modules is linked with a corresponding transmitter receiver pair TXn RXn by a different pair of optical fibers The fibers define upstream links for data analog or digital output from the modules to the processing node . The fibers define a downstream link for a continuous CW light signal that is output from each of the Txn RXn pairs of the array at the node . The CW signal may include control data specific to the module where it is received.

Each data module is coupled to one or more platform data sources e.g. aircraft sensors cameras radars and or antennas and includes an optical receiver that operates to detect downstream control data from the transmitter TXn with which the module is linked by fiber Each data module also has an optical modulator coupled between the linking fiber pair and a driver arranged to receive signals or data from a selected one of the associated sources and to drive the modulator in accordance with the received signals.

As disclosed in the link does not require that laser sources be provided at the sites of the data modules . Instead the optical modulators within the modules each operate on a CW light signal supplied by a laser source in the transmitter TXn that is coupled to the modulator via a downstream fiber Provided the transmitters in array are maintained in a properly controlled environment the laser sources will operate reliably at a desired wavelength.

As shown in and to downstream signals sent from the processing node to the data modules via the fibers may also contain control and management data within either a digital baseband or on an RF carrier. In an optical link channel is shared in the time domain to transmit downstream control data from transmitters in the array to the data modules during time interval t. The receivers in the array receive upstream data from the modules via the fibers during time interval t t . At the site of each data module only about 10 to 20 of the downstream CW optical signal may need to be tapped in order for the module s receiver to detect and extract incoming control data. Thus at least 80 of the CW signal is available for modulation by the modulator .

Although the CW laser wavelength may be in any of the 850 nm 980 nm 1300 nm or 1500 nm bands it is preferred to use 980 nm VCSEL arrays. A 980 nm wavelength can be detected by Si Ge or InGaAs photo diodes. If an InGaAs photo diode is used it is compatible with 1300 1500 nm operation. This would allow future upgradeability and scalability of the inventive link to CWDM and DWDM using 1300 1500 nm bands. Both the modulator and the tap at each data module may be fabricated in silicon electronic photonic ICs EPICs using technologies developed under DARPA s EPIC program. Such would utilize a Ge photodetector in the module receiver and SiGe for the modulator all integrated on the same chip. The modulator and the tap may also be made in GaAs or InP depending on the wavelength selected and performance desired. For reduced SWAP the transmitter receiver arrays may be monolithically integrated at the aggregator node and ribbon fiber optic cables used for the pairs of link fibers Ribbon cables each with 24 or more individual fibers are commercially available.

Also if desired and as shown in the fiber links may be reconfigured dynamically by way of for example a commercially available N N wavelength independent optical switch arranged in either the downstream or the upstream link fibers so that a given transmitter TXn or receiver RXn may be linked to any one of the data modules .

In the data transmission format of data is transmitted in only one direction at a time. shows a transmission format that allows for simultaneous bidirectional i.e. full duplex communication with the link . In a given transmitter TXn of the array sends a downstream CW signal with 2 PPM pulse position modulation representing control data to a linked data module . The signal is tapped and remodulated by the modulator at the module according to data provided by the module s data sources using OOK on off keying for upstream transmission back to receiver RXn in the array .

In one or more of the data sources are RF waveforms e.g. signals from antennas. Upstream communications from the associated module may then be sent over a link fiber via sub carriers within a determined passband and with a sufficient guard interval from the RF passband of the downstream control data. Alternatively as shown in control data can be modulated at a given transmitter TXn to lie within a determined RF baseband and RF signals from the antennas may be transmitted upstream over a link fiber via sub carriers within a certain passband leaving a sufficient guard interval from the baseband containing the downstream control data.

For each of the bi directional simultaneous optical link communication scenarios of to the extinction ratio for the baseband signals and the modulation index for the RF passband signals should be optimized to avoid clipping so that the laser source provided at the transmitter TXn is adequate to allow both the baseband and the passband signals to be carried simultaneously. It has been shown that both signals can be combined within the link with less than a 1 to 2 dB optical power penalty having no noticeable effect on the link performance.

There are multiple options for selecting the two wavelengths. For example 850 nm may be used for the control signals and 980 nm for CW light to be modulated at the module. If a high power 980 nm laser is used it can act as a source for other transmitters of array by the use of an optical power splitter as shown in so that the total number of lasers will not increase significantly. At the site of each data module both wavelengths are separated and the CW beam is modulated by modulator to carry data from the module s data sources e.g. sensors and antennas upstream over a link fiber to the processing node . This approach also allows the data module to be made entirely in Si employing EPIC and SoC technologies thereby reducing SWAP and costs. For protection switching and redundancy and if necessary a directly modulated optical transmitter together with an optical switch may be integrated at the module to bypass the module s modulator in the event of a modulator failure.

As disclosed herein the inventive optical link architecture will allow a reduction in the number of transmitters by as much as 50 . If the TXn RXn arrays are maintained in a controlled environment failure rates will be significantly reduced. Because each TXn RXn pair is arranged within a closed loop built in tests BIT can be easily incorporated. Also since the transmitters and receivers are collocated and if the link loss is known link performance can be monitored continuously and a warning signal generated sufficiently in advance. Emerging technologies like EPIC PICs and SoC can be used. Due to point to point dedicated links chance of a single point failure is minimized.

As mentioned although CW laser wavelengths can be in any of the 850 nm 980 nm 1300 nm or 1500 nm bands it is preferred to use 980 nm VCSEL arrays. A 980 nm wavelength can be detected by Si Ge or InGaAs PIN photo diodes. This offers the opportunity to integrate both photonic receivers and associated electronic modules on Si using EPIC and System on Chip SoC technology currently under development. Lasers operating at 980 nm have many other advantages over 850 nm lasers now used in avionics.

To reduce SWAP further the TXn RXn arrays at the processing node may be monolithically integrated and ribbon fiber cables used for the fiber pairs Presently ribbons containing 20 fibers single or multimode with military qualified miniature MT connectors are commercially available and deployed for avionics applications. Ribbon cables with 24 and higher fiber density cables are also emerging.

Present optical airborne systems are based largely on spatial division multiplexing SDM using 850 nm laser VCSEL arrays and multimode fibers. SDM employs ribbon cables having multiple fibers multi fiber connectors and arrays of E O transmitters and O E receivers. SDM also allows the use of uncooled components. Because fiber optic cables are relatively light SDM offers low SWAP and avoids single points of failure. It is preferred that 980 nm rather than 850 nm be selected as an operating wavelength in the inventive link . The 980 nm wavelength offers significant advantages including more power with better temperature performance high reliability and eye safety by 2.6 dB and modulation at up to 10 Gb s. InGaAs detectors of 980 nm have also become available at relatively low cost. Further while the same GaAs substrate may work at either 850 nm or 980 nm the substrate is transparent at 980 nm this allowing flip chip bonding which requires no bond wires and results in better thermal conductivity higher power handling lower series resistance and inductance reduced EMI and increased self resonant frequency. Moreover at 980 nm the laser threshold current is lowered by a factor of 2 with respect to 850 nm. All the foregoing results in an increase in power link margins by several dB.

Moreover with SDM advantage can be taken of time division multiplexing TDM which combines multiple data streams on a single channel. To reduce the number of laser transmitters receivers and fibers TDM data rates per channel can be increased up to 10 Gb s because TDM electronics is inexpensive and photonics components are widely available to support this data rate. The cost of 10 Gb s components has also dropped significantly due to their widespread commercial use. Analog signals may therefore be digitized at their source and the resulting data multiplexed into a TDM data stream.

TDM channels are transported using known Ethernet Fiber Channel or SONET G709 protocols in which data scales up by a factor of 10 2 and 4 respectively. While Ethernet has been avoided in avionics because it is not deterministic the emergence of Avionics full duplex Ethernet AFDX which is a deterministic version of Ethernet may allow Ethernet to become more popular in avionics. AFDX has the potential of replacing ARINC 429 IEEE 1394 and US MIL STD 1553B. Presently AFDX is limited to 100 Mbps so it would be necessary to scale the protocol up to 1 Gbps and 10 Gbps to gain significant value for optical networking on air platforms. Ethernet offers significant lower cost flexible provisioning and rapid service reconfiguration automatic equipment self identification simplified network management remote management and software upgrades and software activated VLANs. Commercial networks are also moving toward all Ethernet and work is in progress to write standards for a 100 Gb s Ethernet. Accordingly Ethernet is a preferred protocol for carrying most types of traffic on avionics platforms.

For RF signals frequency division multiplexing FDM is more attractive. FDM carries multiple RF sub carriers on a single wavelength carrier and is widely used by Cable TV satellite TV and in fiber to the home FTTH installations. For avionics applications FDM can be used to deliver and receive RF signals to and from aircraft antennas. While the use of FDM may reduce SWAP significantly only limited R D is currently being performed in applying FDM technology to avionics however. More work should be undertaken in this area to leverage its advantages.

To increase the data rate per fiber further dense or course wavelength division multiplexing DWDM or CWDM in which multiple wavelengths are carried over the same fiber are preferably used. The difference between DWDM and CWDM is in the wavelength separation between neighboring channels and the number of channels on a fiber. Either is very attractive for carrying large amounts of data over long distances thus saving costs associated with fiber optic cables and optical amplifiers and offering the advantage of dynamically reconfigurable optical add drop multiplexers ROADM .

DWDM also minimizes the number of required cables connectors switches and couplers and significantly simplifies the routing and building redundancy. The SAE has recognized the importance of WDM LAN to implement a flexible scalable and upgradeable optical network supporting the systems and subsystems aboard an avionics platform. SAE document AS5659 defining WDM backbone network requirements is under preparation. Because of the relatively short distances over which data communications are carried out in an airborne platform and lack of a need for long fiber runs and optical amplifiers DWDM may not offer significant cost advantages unless complete DWDM functionality is integrated on e.g. just two chips one for the transmitter and the other for receiver. Transmitter and receiver PICs supporting 10 WDM channels with 10 Gb s each are now commercially available. Optical wavelengths for CWDM or DWDM should preferably be in the 1300 to 1600 nm range. In DWDM the center wavelength of lasers and Mux Demux must be controlled very accurately using e.g. TE coolers and heaters which are unnecessary in CWDM thus making CWDM more attractive. It is also noted that DWDM may add a single point of failure unless enough redundancy is built in. And since wavelength specific components are needed the inventory of required components could also be quite significant for DWDM.

Whether CWDM or DWDM is selected it is preferred to use multimode optical fibers in the inventive link . Single mode SM fibers face numerous challenges on avionics platforms. For example to avoid failure of SM connectors special expanded beam connectors must be used which add about one dB loss. Since the cables on an airframe are installed in multiple sections and are joined with connectors such SM connectors in large quantity may increase power losses and require use of optical amplifiers in which the health and wavelength of pump lasers must be carefully controlled. The electronics needed for such control increases SWAP.

To avoid the above complexities arising from the use of DWDM components and to reduce SWAP and costs multiplexing technologies selected for the link are in order of preference TDM or banded FDM SDM and CWDM with multi mode fiber. Deploying some single mode dark fiber for future DWDM may be considered would not increase cost and weight significantly and would improve the lifetime of the platform infrastructure by supporting upgradeability repair and replacement.

Whether incorporated in an airborne or a naval platform the inventive optical link allows flexibility to support technology insertion modularity and long term supportability enabling a wire once approach to scale over the life cycle of the platform. There is no single point of failure and the platform will be tolerant of multiple faults. Capabilities for health monitoring with built in tests BITs for fault and performance management including path redundancy automatic protection and restoration and survivability may all be implemented. Control and management functions such as multi level security support for unicast multicast and broadcast operation software controlled configurability connectivity and fault tolerance can be supported. Equally important the platform will be robust to thermal and mechanical shock sinusoidal or random vibration and EM noise and interference and it will function over a demanding range of environmental conditions.

While the foregoing represents preferred embodiments of the invention it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example in the functions of the receiver and the modulator in the data module in are performed using an electro absorption modulator EAM and a diplexer coupled to a control terminal of the EAM. Because this configuration enables the EAM to act both as a light modulator and detector no splitter or separate receiver is needed in the data module .

Accordingly the invention includes all such modifications and changes as come within the bounds of the following claims.

