---

title: Amplified sensitivity of porous chemosensors based on bernoulli effect
abstract: A method of vapor sampling and its delivery to the porous sensory element(s) employed in chemical detectors/sensors for vapor(s) identification and quantification. The sampling and delivery system comprises a flow cell in which a sensory membrane is placed parallel to the flow, while an additional flow normal to the membrane is introduced using the Bernoulli effect. The bi-directional flow of vapors increases the interactions between the sensory material and vapor molecules, and enhances sensitivity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07908902&OS=07908902&RS=07908902
owner: Emitech, Inc
number: 07908902
owner_city: Fall River
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081016
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to a novel method for sampling and delivery of vapors for chemical sensing. This method discloses the application of a new flow cell design based on the Bernoulli principle to enhance the sensitivity of a sensor or sensor array that uses a sensory material entrapped in a porous membrane to detect analyte vapors.

The invention generally relates to the sampling of vapors and their delivery to sensory elements in various chemical sensors or sensor arrays. Usually any sensor for detecting vapors especially low pressure vapors requires a sampling and delivery system. The most general sampling and delivery method is vapor pumping through a flow channel where the sensory element s is placed. The interaction of analyte vapors with the sensory element affects its physical chemical properties e.g. electrical conductivity optical absorption etc. and their changes can be detected followed by analyte vapors identification and quantification.

To increase the sensitivity to analyte vapors porous materials with a large surface area are employed. The porous medium can be sensitive itself or can be infiltrated with a sensory material. The major problem here is the vapor permeability through the pores in which the topology can be branch like or pores can be partially clogged making vapor diffusion inside the pores difficult. This factor can seriously detriment the sensor performance reducing its high sensitivity that is expected from the large surface area. If the average pore size of the sensory membrane is small less than 1 2 m the pump cannot provide effective vapor delivery through the pores because of the low flow rate flow normal to the membrane surface . Increasing the flow rate will require higher pump power and could result in the membrane breakdown.

Therefore the sensory membrane should be fixed so that it will provide a flow parallel to its surface. In such a configuration despite the absence of the flow rate limitation vapors still cannot penetrate deep inside the membrane. Therefore there is a need in the delivery method which combines the parallel vapor flow with an effective permeability mechanism through the porous structure.

The present invention provides a novel method of vapor sampling and its delivery to the porous sensory element s employed in chemical detectors sensors for vapor s identification and quantification. In this method an additional channel for vapor delivery through the porous structure is employed which is based on the Bernoulli effect. Thus an amplified sensitivity is anticipated as compared to conventional methods where only one delivery channel is used.

In this invention the sensory element porous membrane is placed in the flow channel in a special manner to provide the difference in the static pressure on both sides of the porous membrane due to the Bernoulli effect. It can be done by varying the width of two sub channels or making the opening connecting the back side of the membrane to the ambient environment subject of the vapor detection . The difference in vapor velocity on both sides of the membrane should result in the static pressure difference due to the Bernoulli effect. Consequently the flow in the direction normal to the membrane surface should be generated increasing the vapor interaction with the sensory material and thereby enhancing the detector sensitivity.

Airflow must be frequently sampled for a variety of flow monitoring applications. Such sampling may be performed to examine the ambient air for chemical biological and or radiological particulates. Other purposes may include inertial characteristics of the airflows such as pressure measurements. Finally airflow sampling and delivery can be used in various chemical sensors detectors sensor arrays for identification and quantification of the specific target vapors analytes existing in the air e.g. industrial toxic compounds explosives chemical biological warfare agents . In this invention the sampling delivery system with improved characteristics will be considered as a part of the above chemical sensors. Thus it can be incorporated in any chemical sensors to enhance amplify the device sensitivity.

First we will demonstrate that the porous sensory material has a significant advantage over the sensors based on flat solid films. Let us consider the fluorescence quenching of a solid sensory film as a transduction mechanism for the detection of analyte vapors. The same approach can be applied to any other transduction mechanism e.g. conductivity surface acoustic wave plasmon resonance etc. . The transduction mechanisms include an optical signal change e.g. reflectance absorption luminescence conductivity or resistivity change resonance frequency of the acoustic signal change etc.

The two main factors that govern the device sensitivity S I I are the initial amplitude of the signal I and the amplitude after an exposure to analyte vapor I . The value of Idepends on the amount of deposited sensory molecules polymers and the value of I is defined by the analyte permeability. Here we keep the other parameters constant such as emissive yields binding constants film porosity etc. A thin sensory film will provide a low Ivalue and high analyte permeability so the maximum amount of molecules will be quenched. Experimentally this means that despite high sensitivity an initial signal can be comparable with the noise level especially for a sensory monolayer. For a thick film the Iamplitude can be high but the vapor permeability is reduced at remote layers under the film surface . The use of the porous materials resolve this problem since a sufficient amount of the sensory material is combined with high analyte permeability . However most porous materials e.g. sol gel zeolites porous glasses etc. have random porosity and broad size distribution that lead to poor vapor permeability and interaction of the analyte molecules with sensory material inside the pores. This factor can seriously detriment the sensor performance reducing its high sensitivity expected from the large surface area of porous membrane. Therefore a special method should be applied to efficiently deliver the vapors inside the nano micro porous membrane.

At first sight the direct airflow through the sensory membrane normal to the membrane could resolve this problem. However the pump cannot provide effective vapor delivery through the pores since the pores of such small size less than 1 2 m block airflow directed normal to the membrane surface. Increasing the flow rate will require higher pump power and could result in membrane breakdown. Therefore to maintain a high flow rate the sensory membrane usually is placed in a flow channel so that the air flows in the direction parallel to the membrane surface . The drawback of this design is the low vapor permeability through the pores.

In this invention we propose the use of the Bernoulli effect to improve vapor permeability through the porous sensory membrane. The Bernoulli principle is concerned with the relationship between static and dynamic pressures such that P P P V 2 is the dynamic pressure where is the vapor density and V is the vapor velocity . Thus the higher vapor velocity should result in lower static pressure. shows the design of the flow cell where the back side of the sensory membrane is in contact with the ambient air through an opening and its front side is exposed to the parallel flow inside the flow cell. According to the Bernoulli effect the static pressure at the back of the membrane P being higher than that at its front P due to the moving flow should initiate additional vapor flow through the porous membrane dotted arrows . Such additional flow normal to the membrane surface improves the vapor permeability through the sensory element s and consequently increases the device sensitivity.

To validate the Bernoulli effect experiments has been conducted with aluminum oxide free standing membranes 100 nm pore size filled with a fluorescent sensory polymer. Luminescent sensory material is selected from any group of sensory polymers and small molecules e.g. conductive emissive. non emissive acidic basic quantum dots nanotubes or nanorods fabricated from II VI III V or IV semiconductors e.g. of CdS CdSe InP GaAs Ge Si and doped Si metal oxides e.g. TiOand AlO Si oxide and carbon e.g. carbon nanotubes or fullerenes .

A sensory membrane was placed in the flow cell such that it covers the opening in the cell wall while exposing two sides one side to the inner flow channel and the other to atmosphere . The source of analyte vapor to which the fluorescent polymer is sensitive was brought from the outside in the proximity of the covered opening. No analyte vapors were introduced into the cell through the cell entrance. No fluorescence quenching was induced by the anlayte in the absence of the flow i.e. when the pump was off. However a sizable response was observed when the flow was introduced into the cell i.e. when the pump was on such that the analyte vapors were drawn into the flow cell through the opening and consequently through the thickness of the membrane . This proves that the Bernoulli effect can be employed to amplify the sensitivity by increasing the interaction between the sensory polymer and the anlayte molecules.

Another example shows the design of the flow cell divided into two sub channels by a solid concave wall with an opening connecting the two sub channels in the place where they have maximum and minimum widths and a sensory membrane covering the opening. At the flow cell inlet the static pressure P is equal in both of the sub channels because of the same vapor air velocity. However different vapor velocities at both sides of the sensory membrane as a result of different channel widths lead to different static pressures P P which induces additional vapor flow through the pores dotted arrows . Such an additional flow normal to the membrane surface improves the vapor permeability through the sensory element s and consequently increases the device sensitivity. Another example demonstrates the concept design of the miniature optochemical sensor array consisting of two sensory membranes integrated with a wireless device which uses the Bernoulli principle to amplify the system sensitivity. Its key part is the flow cell integrated with LED and two photodiodes filters in the wall of the flow channel. Two sensory elements are mounted on the opposite walls of the flow channel in front of the photodiodes. Each element represents the porous membrane alumina or Si infiltrated with two different sensory emissive polymers to provide chemical diversity for sensor selectivity. The porous membrane is selected from II VI III V or IV semiconductors e.g. of CdS CdSe InP GaAs Ge Si and doped Si zeolites sol gel silicon oxide beads synthethic opal metal oxides e.g. TiOand AlO porous glass metal organic frameworks MOFs polymers e.g. electrospun polymer film nylon membrane carbon nanotubes buckypaper .

Because of the porous structure the lateral size can be small 4 2 mm and yet can provide a high photoluminescence signal output and enhanced sensitivity. For vapor sampling a micropump will be integrated in the flow cell exhaust. The microprocessor reads the output signals from photodiodes through A D interface analyzes them according to the pattern recognition algorithm and in the case of target vapor detection displays the alarm signal on the VGI . Then the personnel can trigger the wireless alarm manually e.g. using a cell phone or it can be done automatically . A rechargeable lithium ion battery provides the power supply for the functional modules of the sensor system. Inset to shows how the Bernoulli effect amplifies the device sensitivity as a result of an additional flow directed normal to the porous sensory elements.

