---

title: System and method for locating a fault on a device under test
abstract: System and method for analyzing operation of a device under test (DUT). In one embodiment, a reference component associated with a reference device may be received. The reference device may be in communication with the DUT and a component associated with the DUT can be exchanged with the reference component. A test may be performed on the DUT, wherein a result of the test may correspond to a source of a fault associated with the DUT. An indication of the source of the fault may be provided based on the test result.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08132052&OS=08132052&RS=08132052
owner: CSR Technology Inc.
number: 08132052
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080612
---
This application claims priority to International Application No. PCT CN2008 001137 filed Jun. 12 2008.

The present invention relates in general to device testing and more particularly to identifying the source of a fault associated with a device under test DUT .

Electronic media players such as DVD players high definition media players audio receivers etc. have enjoyed longstanding popularity in recent times. Recent advances in processing have added new features and reduced costs for media players.

In the electronics industry many conventional media players and electronic devices in general utilize processors operating with hardware components. These media players however may be susceptible to manufacturing defects and or design bugs for various reasons. In one example interoperation of a processor with hardware components may result in one or more operation errors in such devices. Further testing is typically not performed for each of these manufactured devices. As a result some of these devices may include one or more of a hardware and software fault. Locating the source of a fault may be very time consuming and expend many resources. Accordingly there exists a need to provide a means for locating a source of faulty operation for electronic devices.

Conventional methods of testing electronic devices typically perform tests on the faulty device as a whole. Such methods may not accurately asses the operation of a device due to the possibility of a plurality of faults. Further such conventional methods can be labor intensive and may be difficult to locate a fault. Thus while there have been efforts to test electronic devices such efforts do not provide a sufficient method of isolating a fault location in an electronic device.

Thus there is an unsatisfied need for a system and method for locating a fault in an electronic device.

Disclosed and claimed herein are a system and method for analyzing operation of a device under test DUT . In one embodiment a method includes receiving a reference component associated with a reference device wherein the reference device is in communication with the DUT exchanging a component associated with the DUT with the reference component and performing a test on the DUT. A result of the test can correspond to a source of a DUT fault. An indication related to the source of a fault can be provided based on the test result.

Other aspects features and techniques of the invention will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art in view of the following detailed description of the invention.

The present invention is generally directed to locating the source of a fault associated with a device under test DUT . In certain embodiments components of the DUT may be tested on the DUT. Additionally components of the DUT may be tested using a reference device associated with the DUT.

One aspect of the invention is to provide a system for testing a DUT. In one embodiment the system may include a testing unit coupled to a DUT such that the testing unit can exchange components of the DUT with at least one reference component. For example code segments associated with the testing unit may be exchanged with reference code segments. According to another embodiment the reference components may be associated with a reference device and or may be stored in memory. The testing unit may be configured to exchange components of the DUT and reference components to locate the source of a fault of the DUT. Further the testing unit may be configured to test components of the DUT on the reference device according to another embodiment. According to one embodiment a fault may relate to at least one of an error in DUT output and an operational error of the DUT. It should be appreciated that the testing unit may be configured to test electronic devices in a multitude of forms including a compact disc player video disc player media player in general application specific integration chip system on a chip loader module etc.

According to another embodiment of the invention a process may be provided for locating the source of a fault associated with a DUT. In one embodiment the process may include receiving a reference components associated with a reference device and exchanging a component of the DUT with the reference component. Exchange of the reference component may be based on the section of the DUT to be analyzed. The process may include providing an indication of the source of a fault associated with a DUT. Similarly the process may include testing components of the DUT on a reference device. In certain embodiments components of the DUT may be isolated for testing one or more operation characteristics of the DUT.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a process for locating faults in a DUT having a components which may be characterized as having front end and back end components. For example a DVD player may be configured to include front end processing components and back end processing components. In one embodiment of the invention a process may be provided for determining the location of a fault based on testing one or more of the front end components and the back end components. Similarly a process may be provided for locating faults for system on chip and or systems having front end and back end components in general.

When implemented in software the elements of the invention are essentially the code segments to perform the necessary tasks. The program or code segments can be stored in a processor readable medium. The processor readable medium may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of the processor readable medium include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a ROM a flash memory or other non volatile memory a floppy diskette a CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk etc. The code segments may be downloaded via computer networks such as the Internet Intranet etc.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a graphical representation of a DUT according to one or more embodiments of the invention. In certain embodiment a DUT may be characterized as including front end and back end components. As shown in a DUT is represented as having front end and back end sections. It may be appreciated that front end and back end may relate to an abstraction of the functions provided by the DUT for separating components of the DUT . As such front end and back end may each perform one or more distinct functions for the DUT . However it should also be appreciated that front end and back end may relate to distinct components and or modules of the DUT .

In one embodiment DUT may relate to an electronic device such as a compact disc player video disc player media player in general etc. According to another embodiment DUT can relate to a controller such as a such as a processor microprocessor field programmable gate array FPGA system on a chip SoC and or application specific integrated circuit ASIC of an electronic device. As shown in components of DUT are shown as distinct components however it should be appreciated that teachings of one or more embodiments of the invention may be applied to a DUT which may not be divided into front end and back end components.

In one embodiment front end may relate to components configured to collect input in various forms from a user or other device and process the received data to conform to a specification. Front end may include software components and hardware components . Software components may relate to processor executable instructions for operating or controlling hardware components . In certain embodiments when DUT relates to a disk player such as a DVD player hardware components may include read write components a servo servo control components and or a data processor. Additionally hardware components may include read write means for decoding and or encoding data. According to another embodiment front end may include a loader configured to provide data generated and or detected by front end to back end . In one embodiment loader may include hardware and software components. Software components of loader may be used to format and or handle data for back end .

Back end may relate to components configured to decode encode and or process data received from front end . It may also be appreciated that back end components may receive data from a user input and or graphical user interface GUI . As shown in back end can include software components and hardware components . It may be appreciated that software components and hardware components may interoperate to provide one or more functions such as high definition decoding and display time shifting up conversion progressive and interlaced scanning etc. In certain embodiments software components can relate to executable instructions for hardware components . In a further embodiment hardware components may include a processor coupled to a memory such as a microprocessor field programmable gate array FPGA and or application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

While DUT has been described has having front end and back end components it should equally be appreciated that DUT may relate to other configurations.

Referring now to a simplified block diagram is shown of a system which may be used to test a DUT such as DUT of according to one or more embodiments of the invention. As shown in system includes a testing unit coupled to a DUT . According to one embodiment testing unit may be configured to exchange one or more components of DUT with reference components to determine the source of a fault. In one embodiment reference components may be stored by memory and or reference device . Reference components may relate to front end and or back end components associated with DUT . In certain embodiments the reference components may be based on a model and series of a controller associated with DUT . It may also be appreciated that the reference components may relate to one or more of hardware and machine readable code elements such as software. According to another embodiment reference components may be provided by a reference device . For example a component of the reference device may be tested on the DUT through a component exchange operation performed by testing unit . Alternatively a component of DUT may be tested on reference device . For example testing unit may be configured to perform one or more test routines including generation of test patterns.

A result of a test performed by testing unit may be displayed using display . According to another embodiment display may be used to display a graphical user interface provided by testing unit . System may also include memory to store processor executable instructions of testing unit . In yet another embodiment memory may be configured to store a log of results from at least one test performed by testing unit .

Referring now to process is shown for locating the source of a fault according to one or more embodiments of the inventions. In one embodiment process may be utilized to locate the source of a detected fault. As such process may seek to reproduce or not reproduce such a fault to determine the location of the fault. Alternatively process may be utilized for determining correct operation of a DUT. Process may be initiated by receiving a instruction by a testing unit e.g. testing unit at block . According to one embodiment of the invention components of a DUT e.g. DUT may be exchanged with components of a reference device e.g. reference device based in part on an instruction received at block . As shown in path of process relates to testing components on a reference device. Alternatively components of a reference device may be exchanged with components of the DUT. As such path relates to testing components on a DUT according to another embodiment. In certain embodiments process may include testing a reference device and DUT serially such that one of paths and is performed at a time. It may also be appreciated that testing of paths and may be performed in parallel such that each of paths and may be executed. In that fashion it may be determined if a DUT exhibits a fault in operation and or output.

When a testing unit performs a test of the DUT on a reference device shown by path back end components of the reference device may be exchanged with back end components of the DUT shown as DUT BE in at block according to one embodiment. In that fashion back end components of the DUT may be tested with front end components of the reference device shown as REF. FE in . The testing unit can perform one or more tests to determine if an operational fault of the DUT was reproduced at block . When a test performed by the testing unit does not result in a fault being reproduced e.g. No path out of decision block the testing unit can conclude that the fault may be localized to the DUT front end and or loader shown as DUT FE Loader in at block . Additional tests may be performed by the testing unit as will be discussed in more detail below. When a test performed by the testing unit does result in a fault being reproduced e.g. Yes path out of decision block the testing unit can conclude that the fault may based on DUT back end and or back end software shown as DUT BE SW in at block . To that end components of the DUT may be tested on a reference device to determine the source of a DUT fault.

When the testing unit performs a test on the DUT device shown by path back end components of the DUT may be exchanged with back end components of the reference device shown as REF. BE in at block according to one embodiment. In that fashion back end components of the reference device may be tested with front end components of the DUT shown as DUT FE in . The testing can then perform one or more tests and determine if a fault of the DUT was reproduced at block . When a test performed by the testing unit on the DUT does not result in a fault reproduced e.g. No path out of decision block the testing unit can conclude that a fault may be attributed to back end hardware of the DUT shown as DUT HW in at block . When a test performed by the testing unit does result in a fault reproduced e.g. Yes path out of decision block the testing unit can conclude that the fault may based on the front end components of the DUT shown as DUT FE in at block .

Continuing to refer to process may include a test of the DUT loader and back end components of the reference device shown as REF. BE in . In that fashion a loader of the DUT shown as DUT Loader in may be tested with back end components of the reference device at block . The testing unit can then perform one or more tests and determine if a fault can be reproduced at block . When a test performed by the testing unit on the DUT does not result in a fault being reproduced e.g. No path out of decision block the testing unit can conclude that a fault may be attributed to DUT front end and or software shown as DUT FE SW in at block . When a test performed by the testing unit does result in a fault reproduced e.g. Yes path out of decision block the testing unit can conclude that the fault may based on the loader of the DUT at block .

While process has been described as testing DUT components associated with a reference device it may be appreciated that the reference components may be retrieved from memory e.g. memory for testing on the DUT. To that end components of the DUT may be tested to provide a source of one or more faults of the DUT. It may also be appreciated that additional tests may be employed to further locate a DUT fault.

Referring now to a process is shown which may be employed by the testing unit of according to one or more embodiments of the invention. Process may be initiated by a testing unit e.g. testing unit receiving a reference component at block . For example at least one of front end of back end components may be received by the testing unit. Reference components may be based on a particular model of the DUT and or a controller of the of a DUT e.g. DUT . In that fashion a reference component may be chosen which relates to and or may be associated with DUT. A component of the DUT may be exchanged with the reference component at block . In certain embodiments exchange of a DUT component with a reference component may be based on performed by an application interface program as will be described below in more details with reference to . The testing unit may perform a test on the DUT at block . The testing unit may then provide an indication of the source of a fault based on one or more tests performed by the testing unit at block . In certain embodiments further tests may be required to determine the source of a fault.

Referring now to a process is shown according to another embodiment of the process of . As shown in process may be utilized for locating the source of a fault of a DUT e.g. DUT . Process may be initiated by receiving identification data of a DUT by a testing unit e.g. testing unit at block . For example identification data may relate to one of a series and model of a DUT e.g. DUT controller. A chip or controller associated with the DUT may include various pin outputs and settings based on one or more of a model and series of the controller. In that fashion a reference device may be chosen which relates to the controller. The identification data may be entered by a user using a GUI as will be described in more detail below with respect to . An I O configuration for the DUT may be detected by the testing unit at block . In certain embodiments I O pins may be indicated by a user. It may also be appreciated that I O pins may be detected by the testing unit.

According to one embodiment a configuration file may be employed to exchange processor executable functions of the DUT. A configuration file may be received by the testing unit at block . In one embodiment the configuration file may correspond to and application programming interface.

According to another embodiment process may include validating that the configuration file corresponds to a correct file based on the DUT identification. Configuration files may be associated with particular components and or pin configurations of a DUT. Based on the configuration file and the detected I O configuration of the controller components of the controller may be exchanged with components of a reference controller at block . In one embodiment components exchanged at block may relate to controller code.

According to another embodiment functions of the DUT may be disabled at block . In certain embodiments functions may be disabled to aid in locating the source of a fault. The testing unit may then determine the location of a source of fault based on one or more tests performed by the testing unit at block . In one embodiment the DUT may be tested using predefined input. According to another embodiment functionality of the DUT may be evaluated to determine proper operation of the device.

Referring now to a graphical representation is shown of a graphical user interface GUI according to one or more embodiments of the invention. According to one embodiment a user may employ GUI to enter data associated with a DUT e.g. DUT initiate a test of the DUT and or receive results of a test result performed by a testing unit. In another embodiment GUI may be utilized to select one or more components for exchange with a DUT. Additionally GUI may include one or more display areas to provide progress messages error notification messages completion messages etc. As shown in section may be associated with exchanging DUT code to a reference device. According to another embodiment section may be associated with exchanging reference components to a DUT. Section may be associated with exchanging drive components of reference player with a DUT drive.

In one embodiment GUI may be employed by a user to enter data such as a DUT series into a one or more of fields and DUT model into one or more of fields and . According to another embodiment configuration files for the DUT may be selected by terminals . Once a configuration file is selected a message and or the file name can be displayed in one of display windows and . Similarly when a driver file may be selected by terminals and displayed in display window .

Continuing to refer to terminals and may be used to initiate exchange of processor readable code of the DUT and reference device. Display windows and may be employed to provide messages of the related to the exchange. According to another embodiment GUI may include terminals and may be used to initiate exchange of processor readable code associated with the servo code of the DUT and reference device. A selected configuration file may be displayed in display windows and . Similarly GUI may include terminal to exchange of DUT servo code associated with DUT and reference device. Servo code test may be monitored using display window .

In that fashion data entered using GUI may be employed to determine the source of a fault associated with a DUT. For example a DUT model DUT series and configuration file may be employed for exchanging a DUT component with a reference component associated with section of GUI . A result of the test may be displayed in display window based on a component selected using terminal . Similarly a selected servo code of a DUT may be exchanged with a reference component. A result of the test may be displayed in display window based on a servo component selected using terminal . It may be appreciated that testing in sections and may be performed in parallel or in series.

According to another embodiment GUI may includes terminal to complete testing and terminal to cancel functions of a testing unit using GUI .

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art. Trademarks and copyrights referred to herein are the property of their respective owners.

