---

title: Favoring access points in wireless communications
abstract: Systems and methodologies are described that facilitate applying offsets and/or selectable hysteresis values to favor access points in cell reselection. In measuring and ranking surrounding access points in reselection, offsets can be applied to favorable access points to facilitate cell reselection thereto. The offset can positively affect measurements, and thus ranking as well, in some cases. Negative offsets can also be applied to lower measurements (and thus ranking) of some access points. Moreover, hysteresis values can be applied in measuring current cells to prevent frequent reselection. The hysteresis values can be selected based on a type of the current cell or related access point to expand the coverage area where desired. Thus, where the current access point is favorable, a larger hysteresis can be added to measurements related to the current access point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08902867&OS=08902867&RS=08902867
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08902867
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081112
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 631 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE IDLE STATE HANDOFF IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 641 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE CONNECTED STATE HANDOFF IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 988 649 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD TO FACILITATE MANAGEMENT AND ADVERTISEMENT OF NEIGHBOR LISTS IN SYSTEMS WITH RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION which was filed Nov. 16 2007 U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 61 086 223 entitled IDLE MODE PARAMETERS FOR HeNB DETECTION AND CAMPING which was filed Aug. 5 2008 and U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 61 086 337 entitled IDLE MODE PARAMETERS FOR HeNB DETECTION AND CAMPING which was filed Aug. 5 2008. The entireties of the aforementioned applications are herein incorporated by reference.

In addition this application is related co pending U.S. patent applications UTILIZING RESTRICTION CODES IN WIRELESS ACCESS POINT CONNECTION ATTEMPTS by Gavin Horn et al. having U.S. Ser. No. 12 269 611 UTILIZING BROADCAST SIGNALS TO CONVEY RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION INFORMATION by Gavin Horn et al. having U.S. Ser. No. 12 269 637 CLASSIFYING ACCESS POINTS USING PILOT IDENTIFIERS by Gavin Horn et al. having U.S. Ser. No. 12 269 642 and SECTOR IDENTIFICATION USING SECTOR PARAMETERS SIGNATURES by Gavin Horn et al. having U.S. Ser. No. 12 269 654 all of which are filed concurrently herewith assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to favoring access points in a wireless communication network.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP 3GPP long term evolution LTE ultra mobile broadband UMB etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations. Further communications between mobile devices and base stations may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth. In addition mobile devices can communicate with other mobile devices and or base stations with other base stations in peer to peer wireless network configurations.

MIMO systems commonly employ multiple N transmit antennas and multiple N receive antennas for data transmission. The antennas can relate to both base stations and mobile devices in one example allowing bi directional communication between the devices on the wireless network. As mobile devices move throughout service areas cells utilized for communication by the devices can be reselected between one or more access points e.g. macrocells femtocells etc. . This can occur for example where an available access point or serving sector thereof can offer a better signal or service than a current access point. The mobile devices can measure parameters related to one or more cells or sectors such as signal quality service level etc. and rank the cells or sectors according to desirability which can be based on one or more of the parameters. In one example the available access point can relate to a home access point for a given mobile device offering desirable billing coverage service options etc.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with facilitating favoring access points for reselection in wireless communications. For example certain access points can be preferred by mobile devices as they provide desirable billing data throughput access levels functionalities and or the like. The mobile devices can prefer the access points during reselection at least in part by applying an offset to measurement of communication with the preferred access points which renders the preferred access points more desirable than other access points measured without utilizing the offset. In addition when connected to a preferred access point the mobile devices can add a hysteresis to measurement of communication with the current preferred access point rendering the current access point more desirable with respect to surrounding access points than without using the hysteresis value. In this regard the devices can be reined in to a preferred access point when in an extended range and can stay connected with the preferred access point for an expanded range than compared to non preferred access points.

According to related aspects a method for cell reselection in a wireless communication network is provided. The method can include receiving wireless communication service from a first access point and determining a type and signal strength of a second access point. The method can further include applying an offset to the signal strength of the second access point in ranking the second access point for cell reselection from the first access point the offset is selected based at least in part on the type of the second access point.

Another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus. The wireless communications apparatus can include at least one processor configured to receive wireless communication service from a first access point and receive a type and signal strength for each of the first access point and a second access point. The processor is further configured to apply an offset to the signal strength of the second access point in ranking the second access point for cell reselection from the first access point the offset is applied based at least in part on the type of the second access point. Moreover the processor is further configured to apply a hysteresis to the signal strength of the first access point in ranking the second access point for reselection from the first access point the hysteresis is selected based at least in part on a type of the first access point. The wireless communications apparatus also comprises a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Yet another aspect relates to a wireless communications apparatus that facilitates performing cell reselection to one or more access points. The wireless communications apparatus can comprise means for receiving service from a first access point and means for determining a type and signal strength of a second access point. The wireless communications apparatus can additionally include means for applying an offset to the signal strength of the second access point in ranking the second access point for reselection from the first access point the offset is selected based at least in part on the type of the second access point.

Still another aspect relates to a computer program product which can have a computer readable medium including code for causing at least one computer to receive wireless communication service from a first access point. The computer readable medium can also comprise code for causing the at least one computer to determine a type and signal strength of a second access point. Moreover the computer readable medium can comprise code for causing the at least one computer to apply an offset to the signal strength of the second access point in ranking the second access point for cell reselection from the first access point the offset is selected based at least in part on the type of the second access point.

Moreover an additional aspect relates to an apparatus. The apparatus can include a sector parameters measurer that measures a signal strength of one or more surrounding access points and an access point offset specifier that applies an offset to the signal strength of the one or more surrounding access points based at least in part on a type thereof. The apparatus can further include a cell reselector that establishes communication with the one or more surrounding access points based at least in part on a ranking of the offset applied signal strength with respect to a current access point.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Furthermore various embodiments are described herein in connection with a mobile device. A mobile device can also be called a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability computing device or other processing device connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various embodiments are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station can be utilized for communicating with mobile device s and can also be referred to as an access point Node B evolved Node B eNode B or eNB base transceiver station BTS or some other terminology.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. EPROM card stick key drive etc. . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA single carrier frequency domain multiplexing SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA CDMA2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. CDMA2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 .

Referring now to a wireless communication system is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System comprises a base station that can include multiple antenna groups. For example one antenna group can include antennas and another group can comprise antennas and and an additional group can include antennas and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector or cell of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward link the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward link for mobile device . Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile device scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology.

In addition the base station can communicate with a network which can be one or more networks including a wireless service access network e.g. a 3 G network over a backhaul link connection. The network can store information regarding access parameters related to the mobile device and and other parameters of a wireless access network to provide service to the devices an . Furthermore a femtocell can be provided to facilitate communicating with the mobile device over forward link and reverse link similarly to forward link and reverse link as described supra . The femtocell can provide access to one or more mobile devices much like the base station but on a smaller scale. In one example femtocell can be configured in a residence business and or other close range setting e.g. theme park stadium apartment complex etc. . The femtocell can connect to the network utilizing a backhaul link connection which can be over a broadband Internet connection T1 T3 digital subscriber line DSL cable etc. in one example. The network can similarly provide access information for the mobile device .

According to an example mobile devices and can travel over service areas performing cell reselection among disparate base stations and or femtocells during travel. In this regard the mobile devices and can effectuate continuous wireless service seamless to users of the mobile devices and . In one example not shown mobile device can have been communicating with the base station similarly to the mobile device and can have moved into a specified range of the femtocell . In this regard the mobile device can have reselected one or more cells related to the femtocell to receive more desirable wireless service access. In one example the femtocell can be a home access point for the mobile device offering more desirable billing and or other access options. In another example the femtocell can be related to a business or venue offering options or data tailored to the respective business or venue. Thus mobile device can reselect one or more cells related to the femtocell in an idle and or connected mode to receive such tailored options. In addition as mobile device moves toward base station it can reselect a cell related thereto for a variety of reasons e.g. to mitigate interference on the femtocell to receive a more optimal signal or increased throughput etc. .

In traveling over the service area mobile devices and or can continually measure available base stations such as base station femtocells such as femtocell and or other access points to determine when cell reselection is beneficial to the mobile devices and or . The measuring can include for example evaluating signal quality throughput services available a wireless access provider related to the access point and or the like. Based on one or more of the measurements the mobile devices and or can rank access points for reselection. Upon determining the ranking the mobile devices and or can attempt cell reselection with the highest ranking access point. In addition the mobile devices and or can maintain a list of accessible access points and or groups of accessible access points. The accessible access points can relate to for example restricted association access points that the mobile devices and or are authorized to access and or to which access is preferred or otherwise favorable over other access points.

In one example the femtocell can be such a restricted association access point. Restricted association access points for example can be restricted in some aspects where each access point provides certain services to certain mobile devices e.g. mobile devices and or but not necessarily to other mobile devices or access terminals not shown . For example the femtocell can be restricted to not provide to the other mobile devices or access terminals registration signaling voice call data access and or additional services. Restricted association access points can be deployed in an ad hoc manner. For example a given homeowner can install and configure a restricted access point for the home.

In one example the mobile devices and or can identify one or more available access points based at least in part on one or more indicators in a broadcast signal related to the access point s . Upon receiving the one or more indicators the mobile devices and or can ensure the access point s is are in the list or that a related group identifier is in the list before attempting cell reselection. In another example the mobile devices and or can verify association of the access point with the list before measuring the parameters for ranking.

In measuring the access points such as base station and or femtocell the mobile devices and or can prefer one or more of the access points. As described the femtocell can be a home access point for the mobile device and thus the mobile device can prefer the femtocell to other access points. For example mobile device in measuring surrounding access points in cell reselection can apply a hysteresis value to measurement of the femtocell to allow the femtocell to be more highly ranked than would be an access point without application of the hysteresis value. This effectively extends the coverage area of the femtocell for the mobile device . In addition though not shown where mobile device is communicating with a disparate access point such as base station as mobile device moves in range of the femtocell an offset can be applied to measurements of the femtocell when comparing to measurements of the base station to prefer the femtocell over the base station . This effectively expands coverage of the femtocell with respect to the mobile device o rein in the mobile device .

In this regard the mobile device can establish communication with the femtocell when in proximity using the offset and once connected can stay communicating with the femtocell for a longer distance than normal using the hysteresis value to extend time and area for receiving the desirable services from the femtocell for example. In addition the mobile device can perform reselection to the femtocell in an active communication mode to continue service therewith. Moreover the mobile device can perform reselection in an idle mode to camp on the femtocell . Camping can refer to operating in an idle mode in the sector where the mobile device sleeps and periodically wakes up to receive events such as pages loss of signal measurement of neighboring sectors etc. that can result in switching from the idle mode to an active mode.

Now referring to a wireless communication system configured to support a number of mobile devices is illustrated. The system provides communication for multiple cells such as for example macrocells A G with each cell being serviced by a corresponding access point A G. As described previously for instance the access points A G related to the macrocells A G can be base stations. Mobile devices A I are shown dispersed at various locations throughout the wireless communication system . Each mobile device A I can communicate with one or more access points A G on a forward link and or a reverse link as described. In addition access points A C are shown. These can be smaller scale access points such as femtocells offering services related to a particular service location as described. The mobile devices A I can additionally communicate with these smaller scale access points A C to receive offered services. The wireless communication system can provide service over a large geographic region in one example e.g. macrocells A G can cover a few blocks in a neighborhood and the femtocell access points A C can be present in areas such as residences office buildings and or the like as described . In an example the mobile devices A I can establish connection with the access points A G and or A C over the air and or over a backhaul connection.

Additionally as shown the mobile devices A I can travel throughout the system and can reselect cells related to the various access points A G and or A C as it moves through the different macrocells A G or femtocell coverage areas. In one example the one or more of the mobile devices A I can be associated with a home femtocell related to at least one of femtocell access points A C. For example mobile device I can be associated with femtocell access point B as its home femtocell. Thus though mobile device I is in macrocell B and thus in coverage area of access point B it can communicate with the femtocell access point B instead of or in addition to access point B. In one example the femtocell access point B can provide additional services to the mobile device I such as desirable billing or charges minute usage enhanced services e.g. faster broadband access media services etc. . Thus when the mobile device I is in range of the femtocell access point B it can be reined in to communicate therewith by favoring the femtocell access point B in reselection.

For example mobile device D can be associated with femtocell access point C. As the mobile device D moves from macrocell C into D and closer to access points D and or C it can begin the cell reselection process as described herein. This can include for example measuring surrounding cell parameters e.g. related to access points C D and C to determine a desirable connection. The parameters can relate to for example signal quality connection throughput services offered a service provider related to the access point and or the like. The mobile device D can additionally verify an identifier of the access point as present in a list of accessible access points as described. The list can additionally or alternatively identify groups of access points where a group identifier of the access point can be verified with group identifiers in the list. In the foregoing example the mobile device D can measure parameters for access points C D and C and rank the cells to determine whether to perform cell reselection from access point C to one of the others if their rank is higher. As in the previous example where femtocell access point C relates to a home femtocell of the mobile device D it can favor it for reselection. For example the mobile device D can add an offset to measured parameters of the femtocell access point C as it moves within range to prefer the femtocell access point C to the access point C. In addition once communicating with the femtocell access point C the mobile device D can apply a hysteresis in measuring communications parameters of other access points for reselection to prefer the femtocell access point C in that regard as well. If one or more of the disparate access points D and or C rank higher than the access point C mobile device D can reselect one or more cells related to the disparate access point D or C whether in an idle or connected mode.

In one example one or more of the disparate access points D and or C can implement restricted association where some mobile devices cannot connect thereto and or the access points D and or C can restrict certain mobile devices with respect to providing signaling data access registration service and or the like. This can be based at least in part on a service provider of the mobile device and the restricted associated access point for example. In another example the restricted association access point can relate to certain mobile devices such as a corporate access point restricting access only to corporate issued mobile devices. Thus if the mobile device D cannot reselect cells related to one or more of the disparate access points D and or C due to restricted association it can attempt cell reselection with one or more of the other ranked access points until it finds an access point to which it can connect. Where the mobile device D cannot connect to access point D and or C due to restricted association it can receive a restriction code indicating the reason for the restriction.

Furthermore as described the mobile devices A I can maintain a list of accessible access points and or groups thereof. In one example the list can include only certain types of access points such as femtocells since other types of access points such as macrocells can be accessible from substantially any mobile device. The list of accessible access points and or groups can be originally populated for example by one or more access points in communication with the mobile device A I which can retrieve the information from an underlying wireless network as described. As the mobile devices A I move throughout the coverage area of the wireless system and reselects cells as described it can first verify the cells as being present in the list where relevant. In one example if the mobile devices A I determine one or more femtocell access points A C to be the highest ranked cell based on measurements as described it can verify that the respective femtocell access point is in the list. If not the mobile devices A I can decide not to attempt access to the femtocell access point and can attempt connection with the next highest ranked access point and or attempt to locate another access point on a disparate frequency. As described the ranking can be affected by an offset and or hysteresis value to favor an access point respectively when in range or connected thereto.

Turning to illustrated is a communications apparatus for employment within a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus can be a base station or a portion thereof a mobile device or a portion thereof or substantially any communications apparatus that receives data transmitted in a wireless communications environment. The communications apparatus can include a sector parameters measurer that measures communication parameters related to a sector such as signal strength data throughput services offered etc. to determine whether to reselect the sector or related access point. The communications apparatus can additionally include a preferred access point offset specifier that can apply an offset to one or more communication parameters measurements to prefer an access point when measuring sector communication parameters as well as a preferred access point hysteresis specifier that can add a hysteresis value to communications parameters related to a preferred access point to additionally prefer the access point in cell reselection. In one example the preferred access points can relate to one or more access points in a maintained list of favorable access points and or groups such as a closed subscriber group list CSG etc. .

According to an example the sector parameters measurer can measure one or more parameters related to communication with a sector to evaluate the sector for cell reselection thereto. As described above sectors can be ranked for reselection according to the parameters. The preferred access point offset specifier can positively affect parameters related to surrounding preferred access point by adding an offset value to the parameters. This can in some cases positively affect the ranking of the preferred access point for reselection. In addition the preferred access point offset specifier in one example can apply negative offsets to non preferred surrounding access point to in some cases effectively lower the ranking thereof in cell reselection. Additionally or alternatively the preferred access point hysteresis specifier can add a hysteresis value to the parameters of a current access point which can positively affect the ranking thereof to mitigate frequent reselection related to the current access point. The preferred access point hysteresis specifier can additionally select a hysteresis value related to whether the current access point is preferred or otherwise favorable or not. By selecting a higher hysteresis value for currently connected preferred access point coverage of the preferred access point is effectively expanded for the communications apparatus .

In one example cell reselection can occur when R R where Ris a ranking of a new cell and Ris a ranking of the current cell. Thus in an example reselection can occur when or where Qis a measurement such as signal strength and or one or more additional parameters as described of a surrounding access point Qis the offset related to the surrounding access point where the surrounding access point is preferred and or in a related group of preferred access points Qis a measurement of an access point to which the communications apparatus is currently connected which can be the same measurement parameter utilized with the current access point and Q eNB is the hysteresis value related to the current access point. It is to be appreciated that cell reselection ranking can consider this hysteresis value related to a current non preferred access point to prevent frequent reselection in a short period of time e.g. ping ponging effect between access points. As described the sector parameters measurer can measure Qand Qwhile the preferred access point offset specifier can determine and or apply Q. Thus where the above formulas are satisfied cell reselection can be performed from the current to the preferred access point. Using the Qvalue which can be negative the communications apparatus can prefer the access point since the negative value is subtracted from the measured parameter which positively affects measurement of the preferred access point. In another example a positive offset can be subtracted from the measured value where the surrounding access point is not a preferred access point.

Similarly where the current cell is a preferred access point reselection can occur to a surrounding non preferred access point when the following formula is satisfied. or where Qis a measurement such as signal strength and or one or more additional parameters as described of the surrounding non preferred access point Q eNB is the offset related to the non preferred access point Qis a measurement of the current preferred access point to which the communications apparatus is currently connected which can be the same measurement parameter utilized with the non preferred access point and Q HeNB is the hysteresis value related to the current access point. In one example as described the sector parameters measurer can measure the Qand Q. Moreover the preferred access point hysteresis specifier can select and provide the hysteresis value Q HeNB based on the currently connected access point being a preferred access point or not. Thus the hysteresis value can vary based at least in part on a type of the current access point. In this regard the communications apparatus can stay camped on the preferred access point and or communicating therewith for an extended period of time and or for an expanded coverage area using the disparate hysteresis value.

Now referring to illustrated is a wireless communications system that facilitates favoring access points in wireless communication networks. The wireless device access point and or preferred access point can be a base station femtocell mobile device or portion thereof. In one example wireless device can transmit information to an access point and or over a reverse link or uplink channel further wireless device can receive information from access point and or over a forward link or downlink channel. Moreover system can be a MIMO system. Also the components and functionalities shown and described below in the wireless device can be present in the access points and or as well and vice versa in one example the configuration depicted excludes these components for ease of explanation.

Wireless device includes a sector parameters measurer that can measure one or more communications parameters related to a sector as part of a cell reselection or initial communication process an access point offset specifier that can determine an offset that can be utilized to affect measurements related to currently connected non preferred access points to increase desirability of preferred access points for reselection an access point hysteresis specifier that determines a hysteresis value that can be utilized when connected with a preferred access point to positively affect measurements of the preferred access point to increase its desirability when considering disparate access points for reselection an access list controller that maintains a list of accessible access points and or groups of access points and a cell reselector that can perform reselection based at least in part on the measurements and applied offsets. The maintained list can additionally comprise types of access points that can indicate whether the access points are femtocells macrocells restricted association with respect to providing service signaling data access registration service and or the like as described non restricted association CSG and or the like for example.

According to an example the wireless device can communicate with the access point which can be a non preferred access point to receive wireless communication services. As the wireless device moves over a coverage area it can come in proximity of other access points such as preferred access point . The sector parameters measurer can determine communication parameters related to the access point or sector thereof such as signal strength data throughput services offered billing rates service provider etc. as described as well as other surrounding access points as well as the current access point utilized for communication. In one example the sector parameters measurer can tune away from current access point to evaluate parameters of access point meaning it can tune from a frequency required to communicate with the current access point to a frequency of the preferred access point to briefly measure parameters related thereto. The access list controller can be consulted to determine whether the preferred access point is in a list of access points or a list of related groups for example . The list as mentioned can relate to accessible access points restricted association access points related groups and or the like.

If the preferred access point is in the list the access point offset specifier can provide an offset that can be applied to measurements related to the preferred access point to render such more desirable than without the offset. This can result in earlier connection with the preferred access point to receive the desirable services as described above. In addition a negative offset can be applied for example where the preferred access point is not in the list. It is to be appreciated that a hysteresis can be applied to the currently connected access point measurements as well to prevent frequent reselection in a short period of time between the access points thus if the measurements of either access point changes slightly the hysteresis value applied can mitigate reselection until there is a greater disparity in the cell measurements. Where the preferred access point with offset applied ranks higher than the current access point e.g. with hysteresis applied the cell reselector can perform reselection to a sector of the preferred access point .

In another example the preferred access point can comprise a hysteresis value specifier that can determine multiple hysteresis values for the preferred access point . For example one value can be for wireless devices to which the preferred access point is indeed a preferred access point and another value for those devices to which the preferred access point is not a preferred access point. According to an example the wireless device can be connected to preferred access point receiving wireless communication service therefrom. As wireless device moves throughout a mobile service area the sector parameters measurer as described above can measure communications parameters of various sectors to rank the sectors for cell reselection. As the wireless device is communicating with its preferred access point in one example it need not utilize an offset from the access point offset specifier . Nevertheless the access point hysteresis specifier can determine a hysteresis related to the preferred access point and apply the hysteresis in ranking the currently connected preferred access point among other access points to determine whether reselection should occur.

As described one or more hysteresis values can be specified by the hysteresis value specifier which can be transmitted to the wireless device upon connection with the preferred access point . In another example the values can be received from other surrounding or previously connected access points or otherwise. It is to be appreciated that the access point offset specifier can similarly receive the offset from a current access point a surrounding access point and or one or more previously connected access points. The access point hysteresis specifier can select a received hysteresis value to utilize in ranking the preferred access point among the other access points including access point . In one example the access list controller can determine whether the preferred access point is within a list of preferred access points maintained by the access list controller . Thus if the preferred access point is in the list a preferred access point hysteresis value can be selected by the access point hysteresis specifier to positively affect current cell parameters which can cause the wireless device to stay connected to the preferred access point for a larger coverage area. If however the preferred access point is not in the list the access point hysteresis specifier can select a lower hysteresis value to positively affect current cell measurements to prevent ping ponging effect between access points. If the access point ranks higher than the preferred access point with one or more hysteresis values applied to positively affect measurements of the preferred access point the cell reselector can reselect one or more cells related to the access point .

In either case utilizing the offset in ranking a preferred access point for cell reselection thereto or utilizing a higher hysteresis in ranking a preferred access point for cell reselection to a disparate access point expands coverage of the preferred access point where desired by the wireless device . This allows the wireless device to receive desirable services of preferred access points as previously described for the larger coverage area. It is to be appreciated that the cell reselector can reselect one or more cells related to a disparate access point not shown where the access point chosen for reselection is not available. For example the disparate access point can be in a disparate frequency range than the currently connected access point and or the access point that was originally reselected.

Referring to methodologies relating to cell reselection and ranking access points for reselection using offsets and or hysteresis values are illustrated. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more embodiments occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Turning to a methodology that facilitates cell reselection in wireless communications is displayed. At surrounding cells are measured to determine one or more parameters related thereto. As described the parameters can relate to communication metrics such as signal strength throughput etc. and or one or more additional considerations such as an access point identifier a group identifier sector identifier services offered a related access provider etc. In addition the parameters can relate to the cell being provided by a home access point which provides enhanced billing aspects additional service or speeds and or the like. The parameters can also relate to offsets or hysteresis to increase consideration of desirable access points such as a home access point for example and or decrease consideration of other access points. At the surrounding cells can be ranked according to the determined parameters. The ranking can indicate an order of desirable cells from which to receive wireless communication services.

At it can be determined whether the highest ranked cell is that currently utilized. Such a determination can be utilized to ensure connection with an optimal access point. If the highest ranked cell is the cell currently utilized to receive wireless communications the method proceeds back to step to again measure surrounding cells. This can be based on a timer in one example as to not flood the network with cell measurements or spend resources by constantly measuring the cells. If the highest ranked cell is not the currently utilized cell at cell reselection can be performed as described herein to reselect the highest ranked cell. It is to be appreciated in one example that once reselection is complete the method in one example can proceed back to step to continue measuring surrounding cells. As described the access points can be base stations femtocells and or the like.

Turning to illustrated is a methodology that facilitates ranking access points in cell reselection. At service is received from a first access point. The service for example can relate to wireless network access provided by the access point to facilitate communication over the network. At a type and signal strength of a second access point can be determined. This can occur for example as part of a cell reselection procedure where the surrounding access points can be measured for reselection thereto. In addition the type can be determined based at least in part on presence of the access point in a maintained list of preferred and or restricted access points as described. At an offset can be applied to the signal strength of the second access point based on the type. The offset can be applied during measurement and or ranking for cell reselection for example. The offset can be positive and or negative based on the second access point type as described. Thus where the second access point is preferred for example the offset can be positive so as to prefer the access point to others that may have better signal qualities e.g. since the preferred access point can have other aspects that are more desirable . At the second access point can be ranked for reselection thereto based on the offset applied signal strength. Thus though the access point can have decreased signal strength as in the example above reselection can occur to the access point over one with a stronger signal to take advantage of the other desirable aspects related to the access point.

Turning to illustrated is a methodology that facilitates applying selective hysteresis values in cell reselection. At surrounding access point parameters can be measured to facilitate reselection. Thus simultaneous communication can be occurring with a current access point in one example. At a hysteresis value can be applied to measurements of the current access point based on a type thereof. Thus based on the type of the current access point a hysteresis value can be selected for cell reselection. In one example the type can be a preferred and or restricted association access point from which access can be received in this example the hysteresis value selected can be greater than where the access point is not preferred. Thus where the access point is preferred the hysteresis value can positively impact measurement values related to the current access point which can extend coverage for the access point. At surrounding access point measurements can be compared to those of the current access point in ranking the access points. Thus as described the hysteresis value applied measurements of the current access points can be evaluated with respect to values of other access points and at where a surrounding access point still out ranks the current access point communication can be established with the surrounding access point.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described herein inferences can be made regarding many aspects of cell reselection such as measuring the parameters ranking the cells according to the parameters and or additional parameters and even aspects of actual reselection such as when to perform the reselection etc. as described. As used herein the term to infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. In one example inferences can additionally be made in determining offset and or hysteresis values to apply to prospective and or current access points to extend coverage to desirable or preferred access points in cell reselection as described.

Mobile device can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data information related to available channels data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with estimating and or utilizing a channel e.g. performance based capacity based etc. .

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Processor and or receiver can further be operatively coupled to a sector parameters measurer that can receive and measure parameters of various surrounding sectors and or related access points during cell reselection. For example an access point related to a cell can be selected based at least in part on superior communication parameters e.g. signal strength services offered billing schemes and or the like as compared with a current access point or related cell. In addition the processor can be operatively coupled to an offset hysteresis specifier that can determine and apply offsets and or hysteresis values to the measured parameters to positively or negatively affect certain access points for reselection. In one example the offset hysteresis specifier can apply a positive offset to a measured access point to render related parameters more desirable for subsequent reselection and hence expand coverage area for the access point . In another example the offset hysteresis specifier can apply a negative offset to a measured access point to render related parameters less desirable for reselection.

Moreover in one example the offset hysteresis specifier can select and apply a hysteresis value to a current access point based on a type thereof. Thus where the current access point is preferred a larger hysteresis value can be applied rendering higher measurements related thereto to extend coverage of the current preferred access point. Where the access point is not preferred the offset hysteresis specifier can select and apply a lower hysteresis value. It is to be appreciated that hysteresis values can be applied in either case to prevent frequent selection and reselection to from access points. Mobile device still further comprises a modulator and transmitter that respectively modulate and transmit signals to for instance a base station another mobile device etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the sector parameters measurer offset hysteresis specifier demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown .

At base station traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor . According to an example each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM techniques. Additionally or alternatively the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM . The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM etc. selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .

The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In various embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At mobile device the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor can receive and process the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. RX data processor can demodulate deinterleave and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at base station .

A processor can periodically determine which preceding matrix to utilize as discussed above. Further processor can formulate a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.

The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to base station .

At base station the modulated signals from mobile device are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further processor can process the extracted message to determine which precoding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.

Processors and can direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at base station and mobile device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory and that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.

Turning to illustrated is a system that applies offset values related to cell reselection in wireless networks. System can reside within a base station femtocell mobile device etc. for instance. As depicted system includes functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that act in conjunction. Logical grouping can include means for receiving service from a first access point . For example the service can relate to communicating with various devices in a wireless network as described. Moreover logical grouping can include means for determining a type and signal strength of a second access point . This can be part of a cell reselection process as described where surrounding sectors and or related access points are evaluated to determine whether cell reselection results in improved network access. Further logical grouping can include means for applying an offset to the signal strength of the second access point for reselection from the first access point the offset is selected based at least in part on the type of the second access point . As described the offset can be favorable to the second access point where the access point is preferred and or of restricted association for example. Thus applying the offset can positively affect the measurements to extend coverage of the second access point. In another example a negative offset can be similarly applied to mitigate cell reselection to the second access point where the access point is not preferred for example. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that electrical components and can exist within memory .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

