---

title: Method, system, and computer program product for message mapping of communications
abstract: A method, system, and computer program product for implementing message mapping of communications is provided. The method includes receiving a communication and a time-stamp of the communication from a messaging system of an originating terminal device and receiving a request to respond to the communication from a messaging system at a recipient terminal device. The request includes a first response and a first selected portion of the communication to which the first response is directed. The method also includes generating an index that defines parameters of the first selected portion in context with the communication and generating a responsive communication that includes the first response and the index. The index is operable for communicating the parameters of the first selected portion to the originating terminal device. The method further includes mapping the responsive communication to the communication via the time-stamp.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838700&OS=08838700&RS=08838700
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08838700
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080515
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 465 142 filed Aug. 17 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to messaging applications and in particular to a method system and computer program product for messaging mapping of communications.

Messaging applications e.g. instant messaging have become a popular form of communication. Many Internet service providers Web portal sites and various other network enterprises are now offering some form of instant messaging service to their customers. However one of the challenges faced by users of these services is navigating through a conversational flow. For example a messaging exchange between two users can result in multiple statements queries that become difficult to manage when relating backward to particular elements of the conversation. illustrates a user interface screen with a sample two way communication between Users and . As can be seen from the conversation provided in the user interface screen User has entered two back to back communications with multiple queries. In User s response each reply particularly references each corresponding query by repeating some of the query in order to establish a one to one correspondence between the reply and the query. This repetition can result in a slow down in the flow of the conversation and adds unnecessary dialog to a communication.

What is needed therefore is a way to associate responsive communications with corresponding communications to which the responses are directed without requiring re entry of any of the preceding communication.

Embodiments of the invention include a method system and computer program product for implementing message mapping of communications is provided. The method includes receiving a communication and a time stamp of the communication from a messaging system of an originating terminal device and receiving a request to respond to the communication from a messaging system at a recipient terminal device. The request includes a first response and a first selected portion of the communication to which the first response is directed. The method also includes generating an index that defines parameters of the first selected portion in context with the communication and generating a responsive communication that includes the first response and the index. The index is operable for communicating the parameters of the first selected portion to the originating terminal device. The method further includes mapping the responsive communication to the communication via the time stamp.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the preferred embodiments of the invention together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

Message mapping of communications is provided in accordance with exemplary embodiments. The message mapping services enable users of a messaging tool to associate responsive communications with corresponding communications to which the responses are directed without requiring re entry of any of the preceding communication.

Turning now to a system upon which the message mapping services may be implemented in accordance with exemplary embodiments will now be described. The system of includes terminal devices A and B in communication with one another over one or more network s . Terminal devices A B may be implemented via computer processing devices e.g. network workstations personal desktop computers laptops etc. . For purposes of illustration terminal device A refers to an originator terminal device e.g. initiator of a communication and terminal device B refers to a recipient terminal device. Terminal devices A B each implement a messaging application A B respectively. In exemplary embodiments messaging applications A B are instant messaging applications. In addition each of terminal devices A B executes a message mapping application A B respectively for implementing the messaging mapping services described herein. Message mapping applications may be integrated into the messaging applications or may be stand alone software that communicates with an off the shelf messaging application via e.g. an application programming interface API or similar means.

Network s may be implemented e.g. as one or more of a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN and global network e.g. Internet .

As indicated above the message mapping services enable users of a messaging tool e.g. messaging applications A B to associate responsive communications with corresponding communications to which the responses are directed without requiring re entry of any of the preceding communication.

Turning now to a process for implementing the message mapping services will now be described in exemplary embodiments. At step a communication and a time stamp of the communication is received at recipient terminal device B from originating terminal device A. The communication may be an email or instant message.

At step the recipient terminal device B receives a request from a user of recipient terminal device B to respond to the communication. This may be implemented by selecting e.g. highlighting a desired portion of the communication to which the response is directed. Alternatively if the user s response is directed generally to the entire communication the user may select or highlight the entire communication if desired. The request is then implemented by selecting all or a portion of the communication to which a response is directed and entering the response at the recipient terminal device B.

At step the message mapping application B generates an index that defines the parameters of the selected portion within the context of the communication. For example the index may specify the beginning and end location of the selected portion. The index is used to instruct the originator terminal device A to modify the appearance of portions of the communication s response s at the originator terminal device A as described further herein.

At step the message mapping application B modifies the presentation of the selected portion and the response at the recipient terminal device B in order to visually distinguish the selected portion and response from non selected portions of the communication. The selected portion and the response are modified in a similar manner to reflect a relationship or correspondence between them that is the response is a reply or is related to the selected portion of the communication. The modifications may be implemented using e.g. bold italics font size changes font color changes font style change or color highlights.

At step it is determined whether the user at recipient terminal device B is finished. If not the process returns to step whereby the user selects another portion of the communication or a portion of a second communication to which a response is targeted. The index is then edited to reflect the parameters of the second selected portion. It will be understood that any number of portions communications may be selected by the recipient terminal device B as desired.

If however the user is finished with the response at step a responsive communication is generated that includes the response s and index at step . At step the responsive communication is mapped to the communication from the originator terminal device A via the time stamp received at step .

At step the responsive communication is transmitted to the originator terminal device A along with the time stamp. The time stamp informs the messaging application A at the originator terminal device A that the responsive communication and the individual response s is directed to the communication having the time stamp. The message mapping application A utilizes the time stamp and index to identify the portion of the communication to which the response is directed. The message mapping application A may then use this information to modify the appearance presentation of the communication and the response to visually distinguish the selected portion and the response from non selected portions of the communication.

If two or more responses have been generated by the recipient terminal device B each of the responses and corresponding selected portions of the communications s may be respectively color coded or otherwise modified to visually distinguish them from non selected portions of the communication. For example illustrates a user interface screen including a message exchange between two users and as facilitated by the message mapping services. As shown in a first response from User and corresponding User s first communication share a common formatting scheme i.e. bold encapsulation . A second response from User and corresponding portion of User s second communication share a common formatting scheme i.e. bold text that is different than the first scheme. Likewise a third response of User and corresponding portion of User s second communication share a common formatting scheme i.e. bold italics that is different than the first and second schemes. Finally a fourth response of User and corresponding portion of User s second communication share a common formatting scheme i.e. underline text that is different from the first second and third schemes. Note that each of the four formatting schemes is visually distinct from the non selected portions of the communications.

As described above embodiments can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. In exemplary embodiments the invention is embodied in computer program code executed by one or more network elements. Embodiments include computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. Embodiments include computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

