---

title: Method and system for observing a subject at a first location based upon quantum properties measured at a second location
abstract: A preferred embodiment comprises a method and system for (a) detecting objects or targets which may or may not be nonreflective to electromagnetic radiation, and/or (b) generating an image of a subject or area, comprising generating an entangled photon pair beam; splitting the entangled photon pair beam into first and second parts; the first parts being directed in a first direction towards a first location, and the second parts being received into a measuring device; measuring the physical characteristics of the conjugate second parts to determine whether or not the first parts have encountered the presence or absence of an object at the first location in combination with the time that the first part takes to enter the first location. The method and system incorporate a photon beam in a reference path that never directly interacts with the object yet is determinative of presence or absence of an object at the first location. The splitting of the entangled photon pair beam occurs prior to the first parts being absorbed by said object, and the measuring of the characteristics of the conjugates occurs subsequent to the splitting of the entangled photon beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07847234&OS=07847234&RS=07847234
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07847234
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081223
---
This application claims priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 330 401 filed Dec. 8 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 993 792 filed Dec. 6 2008 which are both incorporated by reference herein. This application also claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 filed on Jul. 28 2004 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 493 107 filed Aug. 6 2003 which are both incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates in general to a process and apparatus for quantum imaging using entangled photon pairs and in particular to a process using the properties of quantum imaging to generate an image of an object via correlations between photons or quantum particles reflected off and or absorbed by an object and with photons or quantum particles that have never interacted with the object.

The present invention relates in general to a process and apparatus for quantum imaging using entangled photon pairs and in particular to the properties of quantum imaging used to generate an image of an object via correlations between photons or quantum particles reflected or absorbed by the object and with photons or quantum particles that have never interacted.

By way of background the non classical two photon interaction or quantum entanglement was described by Albert Einstein et al. Einstein Podolsky Rosen paradox Can Quantum Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete Physical Review Volume 47 May 15 1935 pgs. 777 800. The paradox of quantum entanglement as described therein relates to the concept that as a result of the process of measurement of a first system using quantum mechanics two different physical quantities are obtainable in the second system despite the fact that at the time of the measurements the two systems no longer interact and the second system is not disturbed in any way by the first. Einstein et al were unable to reconcile this quantum mechanical description of reality with the so called classical physics determination that no real change can take place in the second system as a consequence of anything that may be done to the first system after the two systems no longer interact.

Quantum entanglement is a quantum mechanical phenomenon in which the quantum states of two or more quantum particles are linked together such that the quantum state of one quantum particle appears to interact with its counterpart even though the individual quantum particles may be spatially separated. This apparent interconnection leads to correlations between observable physical properties of remote systems since the interaction of the remote system with quantum state of one of a pair can be observed though observation of the counterpart. For example according to quantum mechanics the spin of a quantum particle is indeterminate until such time as some physical intervention is made to measure the spin which in general could equally be spin up or spin down. However when two members of an entangled pair are measured one will always be spin up and the other will be spin down regardless of the distance between the two particles. It is normally taught in quantum theory that no hidden variable theory can account for these results of quantum mechanics. The statistics of multiple measurements must generally relate to an inequality called Bell s inequality which is violated both by quantum mechanical theory and experimental results.

In U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 hereby incorporated by reference there is a general discussion of the need for the ability to image through obscuring media such as smoke or clouds which is a problem faced by satellite imaging analysts firefighters drivers oceanographers astronomers military personnel and medical personnel. Conventional imaging techniques have to a large extent arrived at the theoretical limits of image resolution owing to wavelength limited resolution optical element distortions and the reflective interaction between photons and an object to be imaged.

For ease of understanding the terminology test path will be used to designate the path or beam of the photon s entering the object or target area. The terminology reference path will be used to designate the beam or path that the reference photon s travels.

As stated in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 incorporated by reference ghost imaging holds the prospect of improving image resolution. Currently quantum ghost imaging is largely dependent on the transmission of electromagnetic waves photons through the object to be imaged.

The theoretical work reported by Klyshko in Combined EPR and Two Slit Experiments Interference of Advanced Waves Physics Letters A Volume 132 number 6.7 pp. 299 304 1988 see also Sov. Phys. Usp. 31 74 suggested a non classical two photon interaction could exist.

The first two photon imaging experiment was reported by Pittman et al. in Optical Imaging by Means of Two photon Quantum Entanglement Physical Review A Vol. 52 No. 5 November 1995. According to the Pittman article a two photon optical imaging experiment was performed to test the two particle entanglement as described by Albert Einstein et al. Einstein Podolsky Rosen referenced above to determine if there was a correlation in position and in momentum for an entangled two photon system using test beam or path and reference beam or path photon pairs. Specifically an aperture placed in front of a fixed detector was illuminated by a signal beam through a convex lens. A sharp magnified image of the aperture was found in the coincidence counting rate when a mobile detector was scanned in the transverse plane of the reference beam at a specific distance in relation to the lens. The experiment was named ghost imaging due to its surprising nonlocal feature.

Additional experiments are reported in Pittman et al. Optical Imaging by Means of Two Photon Entanglement Phys. Rev. A Rapid Comm. Vol. 52 R3429 1995 and ghost interference by Strekalov et al Observation of Two Photon Ghost Interference and Diffraction Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. 74 3600 1995 which together stimulated the foundation of quantum imaging in terms of multi photon geometrical and physical optics. The prior art transmissive ghost imaging optical scheme using entangled photons of Pittman et al. is depicted in .

Boto and colleagues Boto Agedi et al. in Quantum Interferometric Optical Lithography Exploiting Entanglement to Beat the Diffraction Limit Physical Review Letters Volume 85 Number 13 25 Sep. 2000 The American Physical Society pgs. 2733 2736 developed an entangled multi photon system for sub diffraction limited imaging lithography and proposed a heuristic multiphoton absorption rate of a noon state and proved that the entangled N photon system may improve the spatial resolution of an imaging system by a factor of N despite the Rayleigh diffraction limit. The working principle of quantum lithography was experimentally demonstrated by D Angelo Milena et al. in Two Photon Diffraction and Quantum Lithography Physical Review Letters Volume 87 Number 1 Jul. 2 2001 pgs. 1 4 by taking advantage of an entangled two photon state of spontaneous parametric down conversion.

Quantum imaging has so far demonstrated two peculiar features 1 reproducing ghost images in a nonlocal manner and 2 enhancing the spatial resolution of imaging beyond the diffraction limit. Both the nonlocal behavior observed in the ghost imaging experiment and the apparent violation of the uncertainty principle explored in the quantum lithography experiment are due to the two photon coherent effect of entangled states which involves the superposition of two photon amplitudes a nonclassical entity corresponding to different yet indistinguishable alternative ways of triggering a joint detection event in the quantum theory of photodetection as articulated by Glauber in The Quantum Theory of Optical Coherence Physical Review Volume 130 Number 6 pp. 2529 2539 Jun. 15 1963 and Coherent and Incoherent States of the Radiation Field Physical Review Volume 131 Number 6 15 pp. 2766 2788 September 1963. The nonlocal superposition of two photon states may never be understood classically.

For further discussion see U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 hereby incorporated by reference. The ongoing lack of theoretical understanding of ghost imaging has hampered efforts to develop reflective ghost imaging systems for practical field uses in such fields as satellite field medical and research imaging. Moreover there exists a need for a system using ghost image where feedback or measurement is not possible at the target area.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention two or more entangled photons ep are generated. One part of the entangled pair group is sent toward a target along a target path or beam . The other part of the entangled pair group is sent along a reference path or beam and retained for future measurement as a reference photon or photons. The target has an influence on the entangled photon pair group portion that is directed to the target area and acts to make a measurement or partial measurement on it such that a preponderance of the measurements performed by the target are in one type of outcome e.g. color . The terminology of measurement in conjunction with a target or abject e.g. measurement by the target is defined herein as meaning that the target influences the photon such that it affects a property or characteristic of the photon such as for example by absorption or reflection. Properties of photons include spin polarization transverse momentum angular momentum color etc.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the coincidence circuitry discussed in inter alia U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 is replaced by time of flight considerations. The time of flight t as defined herein means the time that a photon takes to travel from the source to the target area. By knowing the time of flight of the target photon and since photons generally travel at the speed of light or by determining the distance traveled the reference photon s are determinable.

For example to determine whether or not an object exists in space using preferred embodiment of the methodology of the present invention the distance traveled by the target path photon to the predetermined space is measured or the time of flight is determined. By knowing the time of flight or distance traveled of the target photon s the reference photon s is identified or determined. Similarly by identifying reference photons which exhibit changed characteristics such as color spin polarization one can determine the existence of a target or object in the target space. For example the distance that the target photon travels to the target space may be computed using the formula D distance c speed of light t time interval . Upon making determining this timing measurement t one can determine whether it is likely or unlikely that there was a target in the space based upon the reference path entangled photon that traveled during the same t.

For example using a preferred embodiment of the present invention the reference photon may be measured at a predetermined delay time in order to determine whether or not one is likely to interact with a target at a measureable distance on the test path. If the measure of the photon in the reference arm indicates the presence of an object in the test arm this indicates the maximum distance that the test arm photon could have traveled in that time before being absorbed by a target or object. Reference photons can be incrementally measured with a shorter time being selected the target photon has been absorbed so that one can determine where a target begins. Since the changing of a property of a photon in the target path will result in a correlated change in a property of the reference path photon objects will be discernable by examining a preponderance of the measurements of intensities of reference photons. For example upon detection of a ratio of color intensities an object will become discernable. By measuring the photons in the reference path at different traverse displacements one can determine a transverse momentum of the reference photon. The transverse momentum of the test photon will either have correlation or anti correlation of transverse momentum in relation to the reference photon. Moreover the reference photons will strike at different positions in the detector e.g. a CCD detector device. For example if a camera is used as a detector in the reference path the photon will intersect the plane of the camera at a transverse spatial location. Assuming that the longitudinal direction is direction of photon the horizontal plane of the detector will be perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the photon is designated herein as the reference plane. The x and y coordinates of a photon detected in the reference plane will indicate similar or opposite displacements in the target plane. To obtain such measurements one can use a very fast CCD with precise timing. Using a color camera red and green results are obtainable in same plane. Preferentially a camera may be selected such that a single element in the reference plane can discriminate between photons. Optionally in order to provide simultaneous measurement of two colors a 4000 pixel CCD could be used with a prism that separates colors. The colors or property selected will depend on the property that the target impacts. For example red and green photons may be generated for use with a target that absorbs red and or green since the target will preferentially pick red and or green. Moreover it is desirable to pick a spectrum that covers colors discriminated by device absorption. In addition some materials have preferential absorption based upon polarization. The CCD measures number of photon hits or counts. By looking at a comparison between red and green counts one will be able to determine an image of the object target. If no target both colors will come up equally distribution. If there is a target in the space the distribution will unequal. Similarly the perimeter of the object or target can be determined based upon the distribution of colors in the reference plane. The image of the object could be determined using colors pseudo colors or contours to show color distribution. Properties of entangled photon pairs include color polarization spin angular momentum orbital angular momentum and phase. Using the principles of the present invention one can entangle properties separately or in combination such as by combining polarization and color. Additionally one property can be simultaneously entangled with another such as color and horizontal and vertical polarization where there is no correlation between color and polarization or alternatively the photons can be built such that the photons have more than two states e.g. the photons may be both polarization entangled and color entangled so to enable four different possible outcomes and strategies for detection based upon those outcomes.

Photonic properties are selected such that if a given target interacts with a photon property the target can in some sense make a measurement as to what type of photon it reflects absorbs or changes one of the properties of the photon. As another example a given target material may change the change the spin of the particle or photon. If using polarization the target may reflect some polarizations and absorb others. In addition the target could also change the polarization. Examples of substances which affect polarization are sugar water and quartz. In order to determine how certain substances react with photons references are available from National Institute of Standards NIST which lists the optical properties of many materials. Also Handbook of Chemistry and Physics CRC lists the optical properties of chemicals and substances.

As an alternative measurement can be taken of how a given object interacts will photonic properties. For example one can take an object such as airplane wing material and experimentally determine what type of photon is best suited for detection purposes using the principles of optical metrology.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the FIGS. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the FIGS. For example if the device in the FIGS. is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the FIG. Similarly if the device in one of the FIGS. is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

As used herein the terminology target path object path target beam object beam test path or test beam refers to the beam or path directed to the target or object space and or area. The terminology reference path or beam relates to the photon path or beam which is detected and or measured. The terminology is not intended to limit the scope of the invention inasmuch as other terminology could be used to similarly describe similar operating systems.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the FIG.FIG. are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

As used herein the terminology object or target space means an area or space in which a target may or may not be detected. In medical applications the target may be a body or a component of the body. In environmental applications the target area may be an area in space which is subject to surveillance. The target subject to surveillance may be an aerial vehicle or the like a satellite or an object in space. The target area may also be at ground level and involve areas of the ground or landscape. Accordingly the invention may be used for purposes of mapping or imaging an area on the ground.

The present invention has utility as a ghost imaging system that provides object imaging without directly measuring photons that have interacted with the target.

In a preferred embodiment using red and green entangled photons for example generated by a light source split by using a beam splitter such that the colors in each path are in superposition i.e. both colors travel on both paths. Each time a red part of an entangled photon pair gets absorbed other part the reference part of the entangled photon pair must be green the conjugate due to the red part s absorption. By positioning a receiving camera in the path of the reference part one can detect and or measure the reference part without the need to measure the part which is absorbed by the target. In effect the target will measure 1 2 the entangled pair such as is done by a bucket detector in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 but unlike the case of a bucket detector the results are not transmitted by the target. At the camera one determine that the target appears red when all light has been absorbed except for red. The target conjugate variable will be measurable by recognizing the properties of entanglement since only one photon of the pair needs to be measured. For example if target absorbed red photons that will cause other of the conjugate pair to appear as green. As an analogy to the invention disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 12 330 401 ARL 07 33 one can consider the absorption of photon by a bucket detector where electrons are transmitted. Similarly when an entangled photon hits a target then when the other photon is measured the outcome or result will become biased. A target that is not giving readings into classical channels such as a black hole can be detected using the present invention. Detection is made through only a referenced one group of the entangled photon pair that is saved measured and found to have the conjugate property e.g. the conjugate color . After a series of such entangled photons are sent towards the target where one portion interacts with the target and the other portion is measured a ghost image of the target is formed. The preponderance of measurement outcomes of the reference photons will express the ghost image of the object.

If an object preferentially absorbs one particular color the other color will be preferentially maintained via the conjugate pair. Longer wavelengths of light will have lower frequency and less energy. Energy of parent photons will total the sum of the split photon parts i.e. Planck constant times frequency nu energy

The principles of the invention and the preferred embodiments disclosed herein can be used to ghost image ordinary objects or highly absorbent objects which reflect little or no electromagnetic radiation. The principles of the present invention apply also for X rays or any conjugate pair of quantum quantities.

The principles of the present invention and the preferred embodiments disclosed herein can be used to detect targets which may be solid liquid gaseous or other states of matter.

A preferred embodiment is shown in where the Coincidence Circuit and the electrical values leading there are removed. The Object makes all the measurements on the test path needed for such an embodiment. While the example is with colors other quantum properties can be used such as polarization and atomic spins.

The source of radiation may be an entangled photon light source. The present invention may be practiced using all wavelength forms of light e.g. X rays visible etc. . The photons from the light source are divided into two paths. In one path is the object to be imaged in the other path images of the entangled photon are measured independent of direct interaction with the object s . Any or all paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled photon pair part is then stored for future processing. When the entangled photon pair beam passes through the beam splitter e.g. 28 the conjugate entangled properties of the photons are going to be in a superposition on each path. Once the target photon is influenced by the target then the conjugate property can be measured by a detector in the reference path.

A process for solving for the G like Glauber coherence between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. With respect to the terminology G like Glauber coherence inasmuch as a bucket detector is not used in the target path the form of the equation remains the same although the target path bucket detection input is derived from measurements on the reference path. The G like Glauber coherence between the two paths is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image. The present invention is not limited to photons and can be conducted with any quantum particle provided there is entanglement. The principles of the present invention are not limited to light and may be practiced utilizing e.g. electron proton or neutron sources as the illuminating component of the ghost imager. Moreover the obscuring materials may comprise foliage or vegetation in remote sensing applications and tissue in medical applications. Ghost imaging may be used to achieve higher resolution than the standard Rayleigh diffraction limit using entangled or non entangled quantum particles or other forms of radiation referenced herein.

The present invention is directed to a ghost imaging system that provides object imaging without the need for classical reflective object imaging. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the photon ghost image is theoretically less dependent on image distortion associated with photon transit through obscuring medium and in practice there is only nominal image distortion associated with light traveling through an obscuring medium when utilizing a preferred embodiment ghost imaging system. Representative obscuring media according to the present invention illustratively include fog an aerosol particulate whether suspended in air water or vacuum media turbulence liquid vegetation foliage tissue sand or frosted glass.

A process for solving for the G like Glauber coherence of Equation 3 provide hereafter between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. This coherence between the time of travel along the target path and the reference path is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image. One or more spatially addressable detectors are used to generate images. The resultant ghost corresponds to a convolution between the aperture function or the amplitude distribution function of the object and a function like second order correlation function of Glauber coherence. Furthermore the measurement device may be a charged coupled device CCD operating as a spatially integrated detector. Alternatively the spatially integrated detector may further comprise means for modifying sensitivity of specific pixels on the spatially integrated detector prior to producing the bucket detector signal. For example acting as a diffraction grating of a certain order or imprinting an identification mark. Any array of detectors that covers an area or any detector that scans an area may be used in place of a CCD.

In general in the preferred embodiments described herein an entangled photon source such as 12EP emits a beam of entangled photons. In order to determine the timing of a photon a pulsed laser source could be utilized providing ease of measurement in order to determine a specific departure time for the photon exiting the light source. In the alternative the entangled photon source may include for example first and second lasers that are continuous wave cw diode lasers at nm and neutral density filters used to reduce the intensity for photon counting. Any suitable laser can be used such as solid state lasers semiconductor lasers such as red diode lasers and the like.

The entangled photon source may further include nonlinear crystals such as beta barium borate BBO crystals provided in front of each laser to generate time entangled pairs of photons. The first nonlinear crystal may have an optic axis oriented at 0 the second nonlinear crystal had an optic axis oriented at 45 . The nonlinear crystals may be provided with appropriate angles to generate Type I parametric fluorescence with degenerate wavelengths for signal and idler.

As described more fully in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference the crystals may be cut and adjusted for Type I phase matching conditions for collinear and degenerate parametric fluorescence of the symmetric energy state. Both energy states have the same polarization. In Type I spontaneous parametric down conversion an incident photon is split into a pair of photons having equal energies. The laser wavelength used will depend on various factors such as transparency windows in the medium used to convey photons between the sender and receiver. For example fiber optic cable typically has good transmission properties around 1500 nm so that a 750 nm laser could be chosen. The atmosphere has good transmission at yellow green wavelengths so if atmospheric transmission is desired a laser wavelength of about 250 nm could be used. The energy of the two entangled photons will add up to the energy of a laser photon. Typically the two entangled photons will have half the energy double the wavelength of a laser photon. However this need not necessarily be true as discussed further below. There may be advantages in this scheme to having the transmitted photon be more or less than half the energy of the laser photon for example to use a transparency window in the transmission medium in conjunction with a desired laser type and or sender side detectors. Detector sensitivity may be another factor in wavelength choice.

As shown in the photon pairs generated by the light source 12EP are incident on the first beam splitter . At beam splitter the photons from the light source 12EP are divided into two paths. The beam splitter is an optical component that allows part of an electromagnetic beam to pass through and reflects the rest. Beam splitters can be but is not restricted to cemented right prisms or partially silvered mirrors. One of an entangled photon pair will transmit through the beam splitter into path the other of the entangled photon pair will be reflected by the beam splitter and enter into path . The term path as used herein may be any form of a data route such as a wire radio frequency RF transmission field or an optical path. A half of an entangled photon pair proceeds along path until it encounters a target . Optionally a lens may be positioned in the path between the beam splitter and the target so as to provide focusing. Also depicted in is the lens focal plane Q. The target may for example preferentially absorb a quantum property. In accordance with the Einstein Podolsky Rosen Paradox. The quantum property which the target preferentially absorbs will be the conjugate of the quantum property of the other of the part of the entangled photon pair which is transmitted along path i.e. a measurement on one photon pair instantly influences the other of the photon pair. In this case the measurement occurs when the target preferentially absorbs the photon pair portion.

Optionally positioned in path may be a tunable filter A. For example if the entangled photon source is emitting red and green one could used a tunable filter which passes only red in the path so as to obtain a measurement of the red passing through tunable filter A onto a spatially addressable detector which may be e.g. a CMOS CCD charge coupled device array and or scanning fiber tip .

The above described preferred embodiment is distinguishable from the preferred embodiment illustrated in FIG. 13 of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 330 401 401 application hereby incorporated by reference inasmuch as the coincident circuitry shown in has been omitted. Instead of utilizing the coincidence detection circuitry of the preferred embodiment of FIG. 13 of the 401 application the preferred embodiment of uses the principles of entanglement physics. These principles include the principle that if the target absorbs a particular quantum property of a part of an entangled photon pair the conjugate of the quantum property will be present on the reference part of the entangled photon pair.

Several exemplary systems relating to quantum entanglement are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 filed on Jul. 28 2004 hereby incorporated by reference. FIGS. 1 through 5 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 are represented as herein. The present invention which utilizes entanglement may incorporate the entanglement principles including effects on polarity exemplified in the following systems.

The Heralded Stochasitic Quantum Key Distribution HSQKD is described more fully in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference a schematic of a HSQKD system correlates to FIG. 1 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351. Briefly the HSQKD system includes a sending system and a receiving system. As shown in the sending system comprises a first laser a first nonlinear crystal NL a first beam splitter a first polarizer POL a first detector a second laser a second nonlinear crystal NL a second beam splitter a second polarizer POL a second detector and a beam recombiner . The receiving system receiver includes receiver beam splitter R a first receiver polarizer R a first receiver detector R a second receiver polarizer R and a second receiver detector R. The lines joining optical components show beam paths the arrows indicate direction of the beams.

As described more fully in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 the sending system has two input channels a first input channel comprising laser nonlinear crystal NL beam splitter polarizer POL and detector and second input channel comprising laser nonlinear crystal beam splitter polarizer POL and detector .

The lasers of the sending system are described more fully in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference.

The photon pairs generated by the nonlinear crystals NL and NL incident on beam splitters and respectively have a 50 50 chance of progressing to the beam combiner or being diverted through the polarizers POL POL to detectors . The remaining photons photons not directed to the first or second detectors are recombined by the beam recombiner another 50 50 beam splitter into a single beam that is sent to the receiver beam splitter R a polarizing prism with outputs oriented at 0 and 90 which divides the received photons into two paths as shown in a first path directed the first receiver polarizer R oriented at 45 and receiver detector R and a second receiver channel directed to receiver polarizer R oriented at 90 and receiver detector . Signals are monitored for the four detectors R R correspond to photon polarizations of 0 45 90 and 45 respectively. Detectors R R may be for example single photon counting modules SPCMs denoted a b A and B respectively. Detectors with as accessories a photon collector and a fiber optic link conveying photons incident on the photon collectors to electronic modules. Further details were described in application Ser. No. 10 900 351.

The time interval during which a photon is either detected or not detected is typically about a nanosecond. For atmospheric transmissions or other transmission where variability in ambient conditions may be present a longer time interval such as 2 or 4 nanoseconds can be used. In ideal conditions the time interval could be reduced for example to 0.1 ns.

The advantages of the HSQKD system include the following. The exchanged data between the sender and receiver comprises the times of photon detections. The sender and receiver can use synchronized clocks exchange a timing pulse or receive time information from a common clock. The sender is reasonably certain when a photon has been sent based on an entangled photon detected at a detector on the sender s side. The HSQKD system provides improved signal to noise ratios and the combination of stochastic time dependent variation with no external modulation and sender detection of one photon of an entangled pair provides great advantages over previous methods.

It can be appreciated that when utilized in connection with the present invention the receiver portion shown by dotted lines in is omitted. Instead the beam emitted from the combiner is directed to a target .

The Stochastic Heralded QKD Protocol is described more fully in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference a brief summary of which is provided below. In the Stochastic Heralded QKD system the sender and receiver both have synchronized clocks or use a timing pulse and their detectors can measure at most one photon in any time interval.

The following notations may be used in conjunction with a First detector orientation 0 b Second detector orientation 45 A First receiver detector orientation 45 B Second receiver detector orientation 90 .

The sender at time j 1 2 3 . . . detects a photon in one of these four cases i one at a but not at b or ii one at b but not at a or iii one at a and one at b or iv none at all. The receiver at the same time detects a photon in one of these four cases v one at A but not at B or vi at B but not at A or vii one at A and one at B or viii none at all. The sender discards all cases except i and ii and records only times a where case i occurred and times b where case ii occurred. The receiver discards all cases except v and vi and records only times A where case v occurred and times B where case vi occurred. The receiver then sends a list of A and B to the sender by a classical channel.

The sender generates a list of times c where cases i and v or ii and vi occurred and sends the list to the receiver by a classical channel. The sender compares the list of a to the list of a and b and the receiver compares the list of c to the list of A and B .

The Heralded Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution scheme allows entanglement to be used to simplify both the optics and the electronics while achieving security and speed. The protocol maintains secrecy and takes advantage of the photon stochasticity from parametric down conversion crystals.

The quantum property may be represented by an operator K. The protocol for determining Kis summed up in Table 1 below. Whether or not the background of signals are rejected depends on the two photon quantum state with either an identity or inverse operator.

Table 1 shows Koperating on bit values in r of photons sent at a or b and photons received at A or B. Kprovides the identity operation at aA and bB and the inverse operation at aB and bA. For example the identity operator may leave a bit value unchanged while the inverse operation changes bit to bit and bit to bit .

The joint probabilities for both message and background are given in Table 2 for distinguishable particles and Table 3 for indistinguishable particles.

Table 2 above is a joint probability table for the two photon distinguishable state. Values in the table represent the conditional probability of detecting a second photon at a detector labeled in the row given that the first photon has already been detected at the detector or target labeled in the column. A probability of 0 is labeled either noise or not applicable NA and a probability of 0.5 i.e. totally independent detections is labeled Ind.

Table 3 above shows the joint probability table for the antisymmetric two photon indistinguishable state. Values in the table represent the conditional probability of detecting a second photon at a detector labeled in the row given that the first photon has already been detected at the detector labeled in the column. A probability of 0 is labeled noise or not applicable NA and a probability of 0.5 i.e. totally independent detections is labeled Ind.

Modification of the Heralded Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution scheme in the utilization of the present invention would entail elimination of the elements shown in the dashed box in

An Energy Entangled Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution EnESQKD system is shown in FIG. 2 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference. correlates to FIG. 2 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351. In that system energy filters are used to transmit or reflect the conjugate entangled energies in a manner that is similar to polarization in other systems described elsewhere in this specification and in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351.

Briefly as shown in the sending system comprises a laser nonlinear crystal attenuation filter and beam splitter . Signals are sent to two receiver paths. The first detection system path includes dichroic mirror detector optical filter and detector . The second detection system path which is accessible by the sender includes dichroic mirror detector optical filter and detector .

The EnESQKD sending system generates nearly collinear energy entangled photons. The Type I non linear crystal generates a pair of Type I SPDC photons which are incident on the 50 50 non polarizing beam splitter and directed to either the first detection system or to the second detection system paths.

Photons directed to the first detection system are incident on the dichroic mirror some of which are transmitted to the first detector while other photons are reflected by dichroic mirror into the path of optical filter and director . Photons directed by beam splitter to the second detection system path may be detected by the third detector or fourth detector by analogous processes. Detectors can be single photon counting modules SPCMs although other photon counting detectors can be used. Further details of the two detection systems are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference.

The nonlinear crystal and laser are configured to produce entangled pairs of photons the entangled photons having different energies. The energy of each photon of an entangled pair need not be the same even though the total energy sums to the energy of a laser photon. Using known laser and nonlinear crystal geometries an entangled pairs of photons are created the photons having a different energy.

In examples of this system the first detection system is in possession of the remote receiver and the second detection system is in possession of the sender. Detection time data can be shared as described above in relation to and analogous methods. As in the system described above in relation to the sender generates an entangled photon pair sends one of the entangled pair to the receiver and detects the other photon of the entangled pair.

The following example is provided for illustration. If the laser photon wavelength can be 400 nm the wavelength of one photon of the entangled pair can be 780 nm and the other entangled photon wavelength can be 820 nm. In this example the first dichroic mirror transmits 780 nm photons and reflect other photon energies. Transmission bandwidths should be less than the photon energy difference. The first optical filter transmits 820 nm photons and rejects others. The second dichroic mirror transmits at 820 nm the second optical filter transmits at 780 nm.

If the first detection system detects an 820 nm photon reflected by the first dichroic mirror and transmitted by the first optical filter and the second detection system detects a 780 nm photon reflected by the second dichroic mirror and transmitted by the second optical filter a bit value of 1 is assigned. In this case both photons are reflected by the dichroic mirrors and pass through the optical filters and to the detectors and . If both photons are transmitted by the dichroic mirrors i.e. are transmitted to detectors and a bit value of 0 is assigned.

As with the system described above photon detection coincidences are defined as measurement events within a predetermined time interval such as 1 nanosecond.

Numerous other examples will be obvious to those skilled in the art. For example the definitions of bit and bit can be reversed other photon wavelengths can be used and the like.

The stochastic energy based entanglement technique can be adapted for use to generate and detect photon pairs of photon wherein one of the pair strikes a target and the other is detected and measured. In this case either path emerging from the beam splitter may be modified. For example the elements and may be omitted and replaced by a target as shown in . Photon portions entering path P will enter the area of the intended target . In this embodiment the detections by elements will be the conjugate of the target influenced part of the photon pair which traverses path P.

FIG. 3 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 is a schematic of an EESQKD system which uses entanglement to increase the ratio of detected and counted photons over that of background detected and counted photons. correlates to FIG. 3 of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351. The system illustrated in D uses polarization modulation unlike other systems described which use stochastic random time dependent effects.

The sending system comprises a laser nonlinear crystal an optional attenuation filter an optional lens polarization modulator an optional lens and a 50 50 beam splitter .

The remote receiver is in possession of both a first and second detection systems. The first detection system includes a beam splitter polarizer detector polarizer and detector . The second detection system includes a receiver beam splitter polarizer detector fourth polarizer and fourth detector .

Entangled photon pairs are incident on the first receiver beam splitter a non polarizing beam splitter. Each photon pair consists of a first photon and a second photon the first photon being directed to the first detection system the second photon being directed to the second detection system. The first and second receiver beam splitters can be polarizing beam splitters with output polarizations consistent with the polarizer configuration used. Photons directed to the first detection system can be detected by the first detector at a polarization of 45 as defined by the first polarizer and at the second detector at a polarization of 90 as defined by the second polarizer . The second detection system operates in a similar pattern with photons being detected at 45 or 90 .

When the entangled photons arrive at the remote receiver detection coincidences determine that the photons are from the sender rather than being stray photons. Hence signal enhancement is provided by the coincidence measurements. Here the coincidences detected are between the first detector and the third detector the two 45 detectors and or the second detector and the fourth detector two 90 detectors and i.e. detection of photon pairs having the same polarization. Coincidental detections can then be used to generate for example an encryption key.

Detections can also be correlated with the settings of the polarization modulator in possession of the sender using transmissions over a public channel. The detectors used can be single photon counting modules SPCMs as described above in relation to though other photon counting detectors can be used.

The nonlinear crystal is a type I crystal. The polarization modulator sets the polarization state of the Type I SPDC photons. Typically two polarization states are used separated by 45 . Using this approach there is some cost in overall throughput.

In other examples nearly collinear energy entangled photons released in a stochastic unmodulated form can be sent by the sender to the receiver using two laser sources. The polarizers are set up in a manner consistent with the B92 protocols.

An EESQKD system and also an HSQKD system can be used in multiple configurations including the with or without the use of coincidence timing and with or without the use of timing pulses for gating.

Consistent with the principles of a preferred embodiment of the present invention the elements may be eliminated and with the path P being directed towards a potential target as depicted in .

As shown in the system includes a laser nonlinear crystal collimator mirror to remove fundamental narrow band filter a 50 50 beam splitter image lens image mask polarizing beam splitter photon detectors coincidence circuit receiver polarizing beam splitter scanning fiber tip detectors computer and image display . Dashed lines indicate electronic control trigger and detection cabling.

The nonlinear crystal may be a type II crystal producing entangled photons having orthogonal polarizations. The beam splitter directs photons to a polarizing beam splitter on the sender s side which directs horizontally polarized photons denoted H to the first photon detector and vertically polarized photons denoted V to the second photon detector . The beam splitter also directs photons to a polarizing beam splitter on the receiver s side which directs horizontally polarized photons denoted H to the first scanning fiber tip detector and vertically polarized photons denoted V to the second scanning fiber tip detector .

In the path for photons on side of the sender is denoted PA and the path on side of the receiver is denoted PB. The receiver receives the image entirely from the photon coincidence measurements composited from the two scanning fiber tips in front of detectors. Fast single photon CCDs can be used in place of the scanning fiber tips and or .

In the embodiment described in U.S. patent Ser. No. 10 900 351 incorporated by reference the image mask is transmitted by the sender system to the receiver through coincidence measurements. The first scanning and second scanning fiber tip detectors scan through the received signal for example under control of the computer and coincidences are established by the coincidence circuit . Hence the image is transmitted directly through coincidence measurements and the photons transmitting the image information in path PB never encounter the image mask.

Examples of a stochastic quantum key generation are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 incorporated by reference. The embedding of a type of quantum key into quantum image transmission can provide a system for quantum steganography.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention the mask may be replaced by an intended target and the beam splitter and detectors eliminated. This is represented by a box in .

The nonlinear crystal is a type I crystal with 0 polarization. A type II crystal could also be used with suitable system modifications. The first and second beam splitters and are 50 50 beam splitters. The beam recombiner is a polarizing beam splitter. The first half wave plate rotates the polarization of photons from 0 to 90 this allows reflection at the beam recombiner . The second half wave plate rotates polarization 45 . This reduces the potential for eavesdropping. Without the second half wave plate an eavesdropper could insert a polarizing beamsplitter into the transmitted beam to separate out photons that had transmitted through the mask.

In the U.S. patent Ser. No. 10 900 351 the system uses properties of entangled imaging to transmit an image only a quantum channel. There is no classical channel between the sender and the receiver. This layout differs from earlier systems such as Y. H. Shih et al. Two Photon Geometric Optical Imaging and Quantum CryptoFAX 2799 pp. 164 171 1996 B. M. Jost et al. Spatial correlations of spontaneously down converted photon pairs detected with a single photon sensitive CCD camera 3 pp. 81 87 1998 in that instead of a classical and a quantum channel being used to send the information of the image only a quantum channel is used in this system.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the elements to could be eliminated. Instead the path PA shown in can be directed towards a target . The coincidence circuitry could be eliminated. Instead the time of travel for a given photon to enter the target area will be determined and matched against photons in the reference path or visa versa.

In certain examples discussed above either Type I nonlinear crystals for entangled photons having parallel polarizations or Type II nonlinear crystals for entangled photons having orthogonal polarizations were specified. However it will be obvious to those skilled in the art where the other type of non linear crystal may be used with other suitable system modifications.

Patents provisional patent applications or publications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In particular provisional application 60 493 107 filed Aug. 6 2003 is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The invention is not restricted to the illustrative examples described above. Examples are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein other combinations of elements and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art.

Ghost imaging may be used to achieve higher resolution than the standard Rayleigh diffraction limit using entangled quantum particles or other forms of radiation referenced herein.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention uses radiation from an entangled light source to generate ghost images. The photons from the light source are divided into two paths. This may be accomplished for example by a beamsplitter which is an optical component that allows part of an electromagnetic beam to pass through and reflects the rest. Beamsplitters can be but are not restricted to cemented right prisms or partially silvered mirrors In addition in the case of naturally occurring sunlight which can be divided into two different paths by other means beam splitting is unnecessary. For example in the embodiment shown in if the light source is sunlight that radiates in multiple path directions then the beamsplitter may be omitted.

In a target or object path is the object to be imaged in the second path or reference path images of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are measured independent of interaction with the objects. Either or both paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled light are then stored for future processing. Instead of collecting photons in the first or object path in a bucket detector and measured photons in the reference path are correlated to the time it takes a photon to travel to an object site or target location. As used herein the reference path may contain a photo sensor that collects all the light scattered and incident on it along with spatial information. Measurements from the photo detector are then stored for future processing. A process for solving for the GGlauber coherence between the two correlations is provided to reconstruct the image. The GGlauber coherence between the two correlations is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image. One or more spatially addressable detector may be used to generate images from the detection correlations between the time measurement and the CCD detector s . The resultant ghost corresponds to a convolution between the aperture function or the amplitude distribution function of the object A and a function like second order correlation function G as provided by Klyshko in Sov. Phys. Usp. 31 74 1988 or Phys. Lett. A 132299 1988 

An imaging system is shown in A A A B and where like reference numerals used among the FIGS. have like meaning. Light source represents an entangled photon beam that is operative in an air medium. An object receives a light source output and effectively takes a measurement i.e. absorbs or reflects light along path . In accordance with the principles of the present invention the reflected light output is not measured. Instead the time of travel of the photon is computed and correlated to the photon in the reference path or visa versa. In this preferred embodiment correlation computation subsystem relates the time the photon takes to be absorbed or influenced by the target and correlates it to the time of photon travel in the reference path. Paths and may utilize any form of a data route such as a wire radio frequency RF transmission field or an optical path. Output from a beam splitter is collected by a spatially addressable detector which may be e.g. a CMOS CCD charge coupled device array and or scanning fiber tip that is observing the source for the same time as that calculated for the photon travel to the target area. The spatially addressable intensity values are transmitted via path to the correlation computation subsystem which may include a computer processor etc. Subsystem computes the correlation quantum ghost image in accordance with Equation 3 above utilizing the input values from paths and and displays a correlated two photon quantum image on a monitor as shown in .

An object in addition to being a three dimensional opaque object the object may also be a semi opaque or opaque mask from which scattered and reflected information can be collected from the reference photon. An example of this opaque mask is found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein. The reference photon thereby acts as an ancilla which may be saved for a time period equal to that over which the reflecting or scattering photon takes to merge into the photon stream. The term ancilla as used herein refers to a unit of ancillary information utilized for an addition check or verification. The existence of the entangled photon pair in the merge stream as shown in FIG. 5 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 900 351 between elements and is indicative that one of the entangled photons of the pair has reflected or scattered from the object and thereby identifies the existence of the object. A significant number of entangled photon pairs provide ghost image data as to the shape of the object which is determined from the entangled photon pair measurement according to the present invention.

A ghost image is the result of a convolution between the aperture function amplitude distribution function of the object A right arrow over and a function like second order correlation function G right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 1 where G right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over m right arrow over and right arrow over are 2D vectors of the transverse coordinate in the object plane and the image plane respectively and m is the magnification factor. The term function as used herein relates to the Dirac delta function which is a mathematical construct representing an infinitely sharp peak bounding unit area expressed as x that has the value zero everywhere except at x 0 where its value is infinitely large in such a way that its total integral is 1. The function characterizes the perfect point to point relationship between the object plane and the image plane. If the image comes with a constant background as in this experiment the second order correlation function G right arrow over right arrow over in Eq. 1 must be composed of two parts right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 2 where Gis a constant. The value of Gdetermines the visibility of the image. One may immediately connect Eq. 2 with the Gfunction of thermal radiation 3 where GG Gis a constant and G right arrow over right arrow over represents a nonlocal position to position correlation. Although the second order correlation function Gis formally written in terms of Gs as shown in equation 3 the physics are completely different. As we know Gis usually measured by one photodetector representing the first order coherence of the field i.e. the ability of observing first order interference. Here in Eq. 3 Gis measured by two independent photodetectors at distant space time points and represents a nonlocal EPR correlation.

Differing from the phenomenological classical theory of intensity intensity correlation the quantum theory of joint photodetection known conventionally as Glauber s theory and published in Phys. Rev. 130 2529 1963 and Phys. Rev. 131 2766 1963 dips into the physical origin of the phenomenon. The theory gives the probability of a specified joint photodetection event right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over right arrow over 4 and leaves room for us to identify the superposed probability amplitudes. In Eq. 4 Eand Eare the negative and positive frequency field operators at space time coordinates of the photodetection event and circumflex over represents the density operator describing the radiation. In Eq. 4 we have simplified the calculation to 2D.

In the photon counting regime it is reasonable to model the thermal light in terms of single photon states for joint detection 

Assuming a large number of atoms that are ready for two level atomic transition. At most times the atoms are in their ground state. There is however a small chance for each atom to be excited to a higher energy level and later release a photon during an atomic transition from the higher energy level E E 0 back to the ground state E. It is reasonable to assume that each atomic transition excites the field into the following state 

For this simplified two level system the density matrix that characterizes the state of the radiation field excited by a large number of possible atomic transitions is thus

The electric field operator in terms of the transverse mode and coordinates can be written as follows 

Completing the normal square of Eq. 8 it is easy to find that the sum of the normal square terms corresponding to the constant of Gin Eq. 2 g right arrow over right arrow over g right arrow over right arrow over GG and the cross term g right arrow over right arrow over g right arrow over right arrow over G right arrow over right arrow over gives the function of position position correlation where

Substituting this function together with the constant Ginto Eq. 1 an equal sized lensless image of A right arrow over is observed in the joint detection between the CCD array and the photon counting detector D. The visibility of the image is determined by the value of G.

The inventive ghost images are thus successfully interpreted as the result of two photon interference. The two photon interference results in a point point correlation between the object plane and the image plane and yields a ghost image of the object by means of joint photodetection.

An inventive imaging system is depicted generically in and in exemplary actual imaging systems in A A B and where like reference numerals used among the FIGS. have like meaning. The optional detector is omitted from A A B and for visual clarity. A light source is provided to emit photons. A light source operative in this embodiment provides quantum entangled photons or thermal photons and illustratively includes sunlight thermalized laser light partially coherent or chaotic an artificial incoherent light source such as an incandescent light bulb or an entangled photon source. This embodiment may be practiced with an partially coherent chaotic incoherent or entangled light sources. The media through which photons emitted from the light source travel includes air water and the vacuum of space as well as evacuated light paths produced within a laboratory. A first portion of photons emitted from the light source contact an object to be imaged. The photons are influenced by reflected from the object along light path . A spatially integrated detector receives photons for a period of time. The detector integrates the received photons for the period of time to yield a bucket detector signal that corresponds to integrated values of photonic intensity. The signal is conveyed to a computer . A second portion of photonic light emission from the light source is received at a second spatially addressable detector aimed at the light source . The second light emission portion reaches the second detector independent of interaction with the object. The detector collects the emission for a second period of time. To facilitate computation of a ghost image preferably the integration period of time for the photon to enter the target area first detector and the integration second period of time for the second detector are the same. A trigger signal is conveyed from the computer to initiate photon collection by the detectors and and if present 16 . A spatially resolved signal corresponding to spatially addressable intensity values for the emission contacting the detector are also conveyed to the computer . The computer computes a two photon correlation ghost image in accordance with Eq. 3 from the transmission time or photon travel time the bucket detector signal and the spatially resolved signal . A correlated photon quantum image is displayed on a monitor .

Each of the detectors or is illustratively e.g. a single photon counting detector light intensity detector or a charge couple device. In the instance when both detectors and are charge coupled devices this affords the additional feature of being able to modify the sensitivity of specific detector pixels on the bucket detector prior to producing the bucket detector signal . In this way a ghost image may be impressed by either turning off or turning on certain pixels in the shape of the object to be imaged prior to summation of the total number of photon counts impingent upon the charge couple device detector . It is further appreciated that pixels may be partially or fully sensitized to provide grayscales of an image which further can be modified with artificial color to provide still additional imaging detail.

In the specific object is a toy soldier. Additionally depicts electronic circuitry components of the computer relative to the detectors and . A coincidence circuit provides detection coordination between detectors and . A photon registration history for detector is also provided at and provides a temporal log for the integrated values transmitted to the computer . The second spatially addressable detector is provided with spatially addressable output that is subsequently fed to computer and onto display . For the optical bench schematic of the actual ghost image display on a monitor is provided in and is discernable as the original toy FIGS. It is appreciated that the image quality shown in is improved by increasing photon flux along path .

It is appreciated that the optical schematics of are particularly well suited for instances when the photons or emitted by the light source represent a stimulating incident light and reflected photons from the object are stimulated fluorescence light. It is appreciated that the stimulated fluorescence light in such instances is of a longer wavelength than the instant photons .

In accordance with a preferred embodiment as depicted in the laser source in conjunction with the rotating phase screen diffuser emits light uncorrelated in space and time. Thus the speckle images are random distributions in space and time. The beam splitter essentially halves the intensity of the initial speckle image from diffuser and splits it into two different paths and as shown in B. Spatially correlated means that correlations are present at any given instant of time between the two paths . There will be a point to point correlation between the speckle images on each path although paths are spatially distinct. The coincidence detection by the processor is temporal i.e. correlated at specific time intervals. Correlation or Correlated as used in the present application means a logical or natural association between two or more paths i.e. an interdependence relationship interrelationship correspondence or linkage. For example the present invention may be used in conjunction with sunlight an incoherent light source whereby a first and second plurality of photons are emitted from the sun at the same time. If the first detector is located on the earth ground receives the first plurality of photons and the second detector located in space such as in a satellite orbiting the earth receives a second plurality of photons the time intervals need to be synchronized i.e. a first plurality of photons which strikes the ground object is correlated with a second plurality of photons detected in space at synchronized timing intervals. It can be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art that if the detected samples from the first and second plurality of photons are not part of the correlation it will not contribute to the Gimage as mathematically described in the above equations. Further coincidence has to do with two measurements at the same or approximately the same time. For example when a coincidence occurs one must compensate for the media involved to take into account the variation in particle velocity between different media.

To confirm the ability to generate a ghost image of an object through an obscuring medium an obscuring medium of frosted glass is inserted along the optical path of . is an instantaneous image of the light source collected on the detector . is an averaged image of the light source obtained from detector on averaging of 100 such images according to . is a Gimage of the object obtained by correlation to photon ghost imaging from signals and . The instantaneous image of the obscured reflection object is provided in while the averaged image of the obscured reflection object is provided in and substantially corresponds to that depicted in .

An embodiment in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 900 351 describes a light source emitting radiation that may be one of an entangled thermal or chaotic light source. The photons from the light source may be divided into two paths one path for the object to be imaged and the other path in which images of the entangled thermal or chaotic light are measured independent of interaction with the objects. Any or all paths may pass through an obscuring medium. The measurements of the entangled thermal or chaotic light may then stored for future processing. The light in the object path is collected into a bucket detector and measured. The measurements of the bucket detector are then stored for future processing. A process for solving for the GGlauber coherence between the two paths is provided to reconstruct the image. The GGlauber coherence between the two paths is used to generate a correlation two photon ghost image.

Moreover in contrast to conventional reflective object imaging the imaging referred to as a photon ghost image is capable of being substantially independent of image distortion associated with photon transit through obscuring media and practically has only nominal image distortion associated with light in ghost imaging system operating in an obscuring medium. Representative obscuring media illustratively include fog an aerosol particulate whether suspended in air water or vacuum media turbulence liquid or frosted glass. For example if the target object is a red chair that is illuminated by entangled white light photons then all light except for red will be absorbed. At the charged coupled device CCD or CMOS the conjugate of the red will appear. There will be less red on the CCD in the region of the chair due to the conjugate. It will be recognized that for measurements of various photons or other quantum particles the detection apparatus equipment must be suited to their measurement and the circumstances of the measurement. For example instead of a CCD or CMOS a neutron detector or quantum particle scanner can be utilized.

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention. As used in the following claims the term processor means one or more processing units central processing units processor cores microprocessors digital signal processors multiprocessors computers and or controllers which may be connected together or to other circuitry in a manner known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As used in the foregoing claims the term subject includes object s area person s setting place mask or scene.

