---

title: Feature selection and extraction
abstract: Image feature selection and extraction (e.g., for image classifier training) is accomplished in an integrated manner, such that higher-order features are merely developed from first-order features selected for image classification. That is, first-order image features are selected for image classification from an image feature pool, initially populated with pre-extracted first-order image features. The selected first-order classifying features are paired with previously selected first-order classifying features to generate higher-order features. The higher-order features are placed into the image feature pool as they are developed or “on-the-fly” (e.g., for use in image classifier training).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244044&OS=08244044&RS=08244044
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08244044
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080425
---
In image processing and or computer vision features are pieces of information about an image that may be used to classify the image or detect objects within the image. Image features may include for example specific points in an image such as corners and or edges general pixel neighborhood patches spatial relationships between specific features and or motion in image sequences. Image classification may be used in image processing and or computer vision for such purpose as biometric scanning event detection robotic processing image searching and or training of image processors for example. 7 h

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In computer environments pattern recognition and image object classification may be used for a variety of purposes. For example in computer vision pattern recognition may be used in robotic manufacturing where a robotic system can be guided by a computer s visual recognition of specific patterns of objects programmed into the system. Current pattern recognition systems and image object classifiers typically use image features to determine what an object may be. Image features can be generically described as interesting portions of an image and may include specific points such as an edge corner or object or relationships between other features of an image such as spatial relationships or motion. Image features can typically be extracted from an image by developing descriptors that describe statistical characteristics about the feature. For example gradient color edges and or gray level pixels may be used to develop statistical descriptors for a feature. In order to be useful in image classification and to train image classifiers image features are extracted from the image. Typically when training an image classifier the extracted features are input to an algorithm that selects features relevant to the classification. However feature extraction can be computationally intensive. While first order features e.g. low level features concerning pixel neighborhoods or image patches are not typically resource intensive computing higher level features e.g. spatial relationships between patches may require more computer resources including storage and may take much longer to extract.

Training image classifiers to perform image classification can be both time consuming and require a lot of computing resources. Therefore it may be desirable to have a method and system that integrates image feature selection and extraction such that merely relevant higher order features are extracted and they are extracted as needed.

Techniques and systems for integrating image feature selection and extraction are provided herein such that higher order features are extracted merely using those first order features that are selected for training image classifiers for image classification. The techniques and systems select a classifying feature e.g. using an additive feature selection algorithm from an image feature pool initially populated with pre extracted first order features. Higher order features are generated by pairing the selected classifying feature with respective one or more previously selected classifying features. For example a spatial relationship may be determined between the selected classifying feature and the respective one or more previously selected classifying features. The higher order feature is then placed back into the image feature pool where it may for example be selected for image classification.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Image pattern recognition systems traditionally utilize a three stage process in a sort of pipeline. The first stage is feature extraction where features of an image are extracted and placed into a feature pool. Features may include for example image statistics extracted from pixel neighborhoods or patches in the image or spatial relationships between pixel neighborhoods in an image. The second stage of image pattern recognition is feature selection where features from the feature pool are selected for classification by a selection algorithm based on criteria set up in the algorithm e.g. a weighted classification selection scheme for mitigating misclassification . The third stage is classification where the selected features are used to train image classifiers for example by comparing to a stored image to determine a classification e.g. people building mountains scenery etc. in order to train the image classifier. These stages are traditionally performed in independent steps without an integrated approach.

Often object recognition problems involve such a large number of features that traditional feature recognition methods and systems cannot resolve them with effective speed or may not have sufficient memory to store all of the extracted features. Feature extraction and storage can be computer resource intensive time consuming and extracted features may require large amounts of computer memory. Therefore it may be desirable to extract features that generally require extensive computation and storage on an as needed basis.

Embodiments described herein relate to techniques and systems for integrating image feature selection and extraction e.g. training image classifiers such that features that may require more computational resources and or may take longer to extract e.g. features that describe spatial relationships than basic local features are extracted on the fly e.g. as needed .

In training image classifiers e.g. classifying objects in an image a typical image classification trainer selects features from an image then uses the selected features to determine classification and to help to choose a next feature from the image e.g. adaptive weighted decision algorithm . In order to perform feature selection for the image features are pre extracted from the image and placed into a feature pool. illustrates an example of current feature extraction and selection. At all first order features e.g. a first order feature comprising statistical values for a pixel neighborhood patch in the image are extracted from an image and placed into a first order feature pool and all higher order features e.g. a second order feature comprising a spatial relationship in the image between two first order features are extracted and placed into a second order feature pool . Once feature extraction is complete feature selection e.g. for image classification begins at . However using the techniques and systems described herein illustrates an example of integrated feature selection and extraction. In the example merely first order features for an image are pre extracted and placed into an image feature pool . At feature selection e.g. for image classification begins and higher order features e.g. second order features are extracted from the image merely for those first order features that have been selected e.g. by feature selection criteria such as classification error . The extracted higher order features which have been extracted on the fly are sent back to the image feature pool where they may be later selected e.g. by the image classifier . Using these techniques and systems not all of an image s second order or higher features are extracted merely those called by a selection process which saves time and computational resources.

A method for integrated image feature selection and extraction is illustrated in . An exemplary method begins at and involves selecting a classifying feature e.g. a first order feature from a feature pool for the image at . At one or more higher order features e.g. second order features are generated which involves pairing the selected classifying feature with one or more previously selected classifying features at and at placing the one or more higher order features into the image feature pool . Having generated the one or more higher order features the exemplary method ends at .

In one embodiment an image object classifier may be used for example to train an event detector configured for visual surveillance of an area for image classification. In this example in order to speed up the process and possibly free up computing resources an image classification trainer feature selection and extraction may be integrated into an adaptive boosting algorithm that uses a threshold weighted sum for feature selection for final classification on the fly. In this example first order features of the captured image are first extracted e.g. every pixel of the image is examined to determine if there is an interesting feature and interesting features are given local descriptors that represent statistical values for the feature and as the first order features are selected for use in classification by the algorithm higher order features e.g. a spatial relationship between two or more first order features are generated by a higher order feature extractor integrated into the algorithm. In this example merely those higher order features are generated that are associated with previously selected first order features. In this way the classifier may select both first order features and relevant higher order features for a faster classification e.g. not all higher order features need to be extracted by the classifier speeding up the classification process . Further for example in order to facilitate speed the classifier may have a time limit or classifying feature limit for classification. In this example using relevant higher order features along with pre extracted first order features may result in a more accurate classification.

In another embodiment for example and image classification trainer may be used for biometric scanning or object classification where accuracy is more important that speed. In this embodiment feature selection and extraction may be integrated into an additive feature selection algorithm and selected features may be used as input into a generic image classifier. In this example as described above because the integrated selection and extraction extracts merely relevant higher order features storage requirements for storing extracted features may be reduced as not all of the higher order features may need to be extracted.

In another embodiment for example the integrated feature selection and extraction may be used in an adaptive boosting algorithm that uses a set of weighted decision stumps. In this example the algorithm selects first order features based on a weighted error function and extracts higher order features using the selected first order features. As the algorithm proceeds both first order and extracted higher order features may be selected which in turn can configure decision stumps. The weighted decision stumps may then for example be used to train a support vector machine for image feature classification or used directly as the final classifier.

One example of an embodiment of the methods described above is shown in . Exemplary method begins at and involves creating an initial feature pool of first order feature descriptors from an image represented as a feature vector at . It will be appreciated that representing the image as a feature vector may also be comprised within method where the feature vector comprises respective features corresponding to one or more respective codewords and values of the respective features comprise normalized histogram bin counts of the one or more respective codewords.

At feature selection e.g. for image classification begins and involves using an e.g. additive feature selection algorithm for selecting features from the feature pool e.g. to identify objects in the image at . At it is determined into which of two lists the selected classifying feature will be placed at if the selected classifying feature is a second order feature it is placed into a second order list if the selected classifying feature is a first order feature it is placed into a first order list . At one or more second order features are generated for the image which involves generating respective descriptors for the one or more second order features at . At in order to generate one or more descriptors a spatial histogram is generated for respective instances of the selected classifying feature in the image with respective spatial histograms having the instance of the selected classifying feature as its center. At a number of instances that a previously selected classifying feature falls into respective bins of the spatial histogram is determined for the respective one or more previously selected classifying features resulting in a one or more bin counts for one or more respective previously selected classifying features . At the one or more respective spatial histograms are normalized by combining corresponding bin counts from the respective one or more spatial histograms and dividing the respective combined bin counts by a number of instances of the selected classifying feature in the image for respective combined bins in the spatial histograms. The one or more normalized spatial histogram bin counts may be used as a second order feature descriptor for the spatial relationship between the selected classifying feature and the one or more respective previously selected classifying features . At the one or more second order feature descriptors are sent back to the image feature pool where they may be later selected e.g. for training an image classifier .

In one aspect a feature selection algorithm is used to select features to classify images from an image feature pool. Initially the image feature pool may be populated with pre extracted first order features but as the integrated feature selection and extraction proceeds for example higher order e.g. second order features describing aspatial relationships between first order features may be populated into the image feature pool. In this aspect during classifying feature selection it can be determined whether the selected classifying feature is a first order feature. If the selected classifying feature is a first order feature it can be stored in a list of selected first order classifying features. Further the selected first order classifying feature along with one or more previously selected first order classifying features from the list can be sent to a higher order feature generator where the selected first order classifying feature can be paired with the each of the one or more previously selected first order classifying features to generate one or more higher order features for the image.

In another aspect once higher order features e.g. second order features representing a spatial relationship between two first order features or third order features representing a spatial relationship between three first order features etc. have been generated for an image the higher order features are placed back into an image feature pool from which classifying features may be selected. In this aspect for example the image feature pool is enhanced by the higher order features on the fly and a selection algorithm may select these higher order features for image classification. Because misclassification of an image object for example can be mitigated by selection of higher order features the on the fly enhancement of the image feature pool may allow for a faster and more accurate image object classification.

A system may be configured for integrated selection and extraction of features from an image for example for training image classifiers. An embodiment of a system for integrated selection and extraction of features is illustrated in . In exemplary system an image classification trainer comprises an image feature selector configured to select classifying features selects a classifying feature from an image feature pool . The selected classifying feature and one or more previously selected classifying features are sent to a higher order feature generator configured to generate one or more higher order features for an image. The higher order feature generator contains a feature combiner configured to pair the selected classifying feature with one or more respective previously selected classifying features to generate one or more combined features . A higher order feature sender sends one or more higher order features generated by the higher order feature generator to the image feature pool . In this example a training image or a set of training images may be input to the image classification trainer resulting in a trained image classifier .

Another embodiment of this system is illustrated in by an exemplary system . In this example an additive feature selector e.g. a discrete AdaBoost algorithm with decision stumps calls to an image feature pool for a selected classifying feature . The additive feature selector stores the selected classifying feature in a selected classifying features data storage and also sends the selected classifying feature to a higher order feature generator configured to generate higher order features for an image. It will be appreciated that the higher order feature generator is depicted as comprised within the additive feature selector in order to for example integrate image feature selection and higher order feature generation extraction . However in other embodiments the higher order feature generator may be coupled outside of the additive feature selector . In the higher order feature generator a feature combiner configured to pair the selected classifying feature and one or more previously selected classifying features collects the selected classifying feature as well as one or more previously selected classifying features from the selected classifying features data storage . A spatial relationship determiner determines a spatial relationship in the image between the selected classifying feature and one or more previously selected classifying features . The combined features generated by the feature combiner are sent to a descriptor generator which generates one or more combined feature descriptors for the one or more combined features representing the spatial relationship. A higher order feature sender sends higher order features to the image feature pool .

It will be appreciated that the embodiment illustrated by the exemplary system in may be incorporated into an image classification trainer for example as illustrated by of exemplary system in . In this example as described above a set of training images may be input to the image classification trainer resulting in a trained image classifier.

Another embodiment which may include one or more of the variations described above involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method for integrating image feature selection and extraction such as the method of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 8394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments for retargeting videos are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited merely by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to merely one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

