---

title: Method and circuit for implementing enhanced SRAM write and read performance ring oscillator
abstract: A method and circuit for implementing an enhanced static random access memory (SRAM) read and write performance ring oscillator, and a design structure on which the subject circuit resides are provided. A plurality of SRAM base blocks is connected together in a chain. Each of the plurality of SRAM base blocks includes a SRAM cell, such as an eight-transistor (8T) static random access memory (SRAM) cell, and a local evaluation block coupled to the SRAM cell. The SRAM cell includes independent left wordline input and right wordline input. The SRAM cell includes a read wordline connected high, and a true and complement write bitline pair connected low. In the local evaluation circuit, one input of a NAND gate receiving the read bitline input is connected high. A control signal is combined with an inverted feedback signal to start and stop the ring oscillator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07684263&OS=07684263&RS=07684263
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07684263
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080117
---
The present invention relates generally to the data processing field and more particularly relates to a method and circuit for implementing an enhanced static random access memory SRAM read and write performance sort ring oscillator PSRO and a design structure on which the subject circuit resides.

In advanced CMOS technologies it is becoming common practice for the static random access memory SRAM cells to have unique threshold voltage implants independent from standard logic devices. This causes the SRAM cells to loose tracking to the standard logic with conventional SRAM performance sort ring oscillators PSROs used as performance monitors or on device wafer monitors for manufacturing line tuning.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 782 808 filed Jul. 25 2007 by Chad Allen Adams Todd Alan Christensen Travis Reynold Hebig and Kirk David Peterson discloses a method and apparatus for implementing an enhanced SRAM read performance sort ring oscillator PSRO . A pair of parallel reverse polarity connected inverters defines a static latch or cross coupled memory cell. The SRAM cell includes independent left and right wordlines providing a respective gate input to a pair of access transistors used to access to the memory cell. The SRAM cell includes a voltage supply connection to one side of the static latch. For example a complement side of the static latch is connected to the voltage supply. A plurality of the SRAM cells is assembled together to form a SRAM base block. A plurality of the SRAM base blocks is connected together to form the SRAM read PSRO.

The above identified patent application provides an improved effective method and apparatus for implementing an enhanced six transistor 6T SRAM read performance sort ring oscillator PSRO . The frequency of this prior art 6T SRAM PSRO is a function of only read performance and not write performance.

A need exists for an enhanced static random access memory SRAM read and write performance sort ring oscillator to monitor write performance in addition to read performance.

Principal aspects of the present invention are to provide a method and circuit for implementing an enhanced static random access memory SRAM write and read performance ring oscillator. Other important aspects of the present invention are to provide such method and circuit for implementing an enhanced static random access memory SRAM write and read performance ring oscillator substantially without negative effect and that overcome many of the disadvantages of prior art arrangements.

In brief a method and circuit for implementing an enhanced static random access memory SRAM read and write performance ring oscillator and a design structure on which the subject circuit resides are provided. A plurality of SRAM base blocks is connected together in a chain. Each of the plurality of SRAM base blocks includes a SRAM cell and a local evaluation block coupled to the SRAM cell. The SRAM cell includes independent left wordline input and right wordline input. Each of the plurality of SRAM base blocks receive a wordline input and a reset input and providing a wordline output. The SRAM cell performs a write operation and a read operation responsive to the received wordline input and the local evaluation block provides the wordline output responsive to the write operation and the read operation. The reset signal is applied in parallel to each of the plurality of SRAM base blocks. The wordline output of the SRAM base blocks goes high and is applied to the wordline input of a next one of the SRAM base blocks in the chain. The wordline output of a last one of the plurality of SRAM base blocks in the chain provides a feedback signal coupled to the wordline input of a first one of the plurality of SRAM base blocks. The feedback signal is coupled to a ring oscillator output path.

In accordance with features of the invention the SRAM cell includes an eight transistor 8T static random access memory SRAM cell. The SRAM cell includes a read wordline connected high and the true write bitline WBLT and WBLC connected low. In the local evaluation circuit one input of a NAND gate receiving the read bitline input is connected high. A control signal is combined with an inverted feedback signal to start and stop the ring oscillator.

In accordance with features of the invention a slightly modified eight transistor 8T static random access memory SRAM cell is assembled together with a domino sense circuit to create a 8T SRAM performance sort ring oscillator PSRO that directly tracks the performance of 8T SRAM macros much closer than standard logic PSROs. One important feature of this invention is that write time and read time are both part of the oscillation frequency.

Having reference now to the drawings in there is shown modified eight transistor 8T static random access memory SRAM cell generally designated by the reference character for implementing a SRAM read and write performance sort ring oscillator PSRO in accordance with the preferred embodiment.

SRAM cell includes a static latch or cross coupled memory cell defined by a pair of parallel reverse connected inverters for storing data and a pair of N channel field effect transistors NFETs respectively connected to a respective side of the static latch. The inverters defining the static latch include four transistors not shown .

SRAM cell of the preferred embodiment includes independent left and right write wordlines WWL L WRITE WORDLINE LEFT WWR R WRITE WORDLINE RIGHT providing a respective gate input to the access transistors used to obtain access to the memory cell. The pair of access NFETs is connected between a respective first side or complement side CMP of the static latch and a complement write bitline input WBLC and a second side or true side of the static latch of the parallel reverse connected inverters and a true write bitline WBLT. NFETs receive the respective gate input WWL L WRITE WORDLINE LEFT WWL R WRITE WORDLINE RIGHT that is activated turning on the respective NFETs .

SRAM cell includes a pair of series connected NFETs connected to a read bitline RBLT with NFET receiving a gate input READ WORDLINE and NFET receiving a gate input connected to the first side or complement side CMP of the static latch. NFET is activated by the gate input READ WORDLINE to perform a read operation.

SRAM base block includes an input NAND gate receiving a wordline input WLIN and a reset signal input RESET B providing an output of a gate input WWL R WRITE WORDLINE RIGHT . The output of NAND gate is applied to an inverter providing an inverted output of a gate input WWL L WRITE WORDLINE LEFT . SRAM base block includes a local evaluation circuit generally designated by the reference character . The local evaluation circuit includes a P channel field effect transistor PFET and a two input NAND gate . PFET is connected between a voltage supply VCC and a first input of NAND gate receiving a gate input of WWL L WRITE WORDLINE LEFT output of inverter .

SRAM base block includes a modified SRAM cell which is a modified eight transistor 8T static random access memory SRAM cell such as 8T SRAM cell . SRAM cell includes a pair of parallel reverse connected inverters for storing data and a pair of N channel field effect transistors NFETs respectively connected to a respective side CMP TRU of the static latch and a respective one of a write bit line pair WBLT WBLC and having a respective gate input of WWL L WRITE WORDLINE LEFT and WWL R WRITE WORDLINE RIGHT . SRAM cell includes a pair of series connected NFETs connected to a read bitline RBLT. The NFET receives a gate input READ WORDLINE connected to the voltage supply VCC and NFET receiving a gate input connected to the complement side CMP of the static latch.

In accordance with features of the invention SRAM base block is implemented with the modified SRAM cell having the READ WORDLINE including a high connection or connection to the voltage supply VCC and the true and complement write bitline inputs WBLT and WBLC including a low connection or connection to ground potential. With these connections no initialization of the SRAM cell is required.

One input of the NAND gate in local evaluation circuit is a high connection or connection to the voltage supply VCC. The second input of the NAND gate is the read bitline RBLT connected to the NFET of SRAM cell . The NAND gate provides an output WLOUT of the SRAM base block . It should be understood that an inverter having an input connected to the read bitline RBLT could be used instead of the NAND gate .

While the SRAM base block is shown with a single modified SRAM cell it should be understood that multiple dummy SRAM cells can be connected to the same write bit line pair WBLT WBLC and read bitline RBLT.

Referring now to there is shown an exemplary SRAM write and read performance sort ring oscillator PSRO generally designated by the reference character in accordance with the preferred embodiment.

SRAM write and read PSRO includes a chain of a plurality of SRAM base blocks N connected together in a chain as illustrated. The RESET signal is brought into all SRAM base blocks N in parallel. The output WLOUT of SRAM base blocks N 1 is connected to the input WLIN in the next SRAM base block N. The output WLOUT of SRAM base block N is coupled to the input WLIN in the SRAM base block through the illustrated logic gates.

SRAM write and read PSRO provides a ring oscillator output signal RINGOUT. As shown the wordline input WLIN is applied to the first SRAM base block and the output WLOUT of the SRAM base block N provides a feedback signal applied to an inverter providing an inverted feedback signal applied to a NAND gate . The inverted feedback signal is combined with a control signal GO by NAND gate . The NAND gate is used to stop and start the ring operation. The GO signal of the feedback two input NAND gate stops the ring operation when low and allows the ring to run when high. The output of NAND gate is applied to an inverter providing an inverted controlled feedback signal applied to a NAND gate and coupled to the input WLIN in the SRAM base block . Since the operation is a series write and read but parallel reset the output RINGOUT of the SRAM PSRO is a short pulse. A plurality of inverters optionally is included in a ring output path to a second input to NAND gate to expand the pulse width of the ring oscillator output signal RINGOUT for sending across an associated chip. A final pair of inverters optionally is connected to the output of NAND gate for providing the ring oscillator output signal RINGOUT.

The RESET signal is applied in parallel to each of the plurality of the SRAM base blocks so that the period of the ring oscillator output signal RINGOUT is a function of many series write and read operations but only a single reset time.

The operation of the SRAM base block illustrated in and used in SRAM write and read PSRO may be understood as follows 

2 While RESET B is still high WLIN goes high causing the output WWL R of NAND gate to go low and the output WWL L of inverter to go high. This causes a 0 to be written to the TRU side of the SRAM cell and causes CMP side of the SRAM cell to go high. Then the read bitline RBLT goes low and the SRAM cell is read by the local evaluation circuit with the output WLOUT of NAND gate then goes high. The output WLOUT of NAND gate is applied to the input WLIN in the next SRAM base block and the same operation is repeated.

3 The RESET B signal is used after this writing and reading of the 8T SRAM cell has propagated through all of the base blocks N as illustrated in . The feedback is inverted to reset all the 8T SRAM cells in parallel. During this reset RESET B goes low causing WWL R to go high and WWL L to go low. This writes a 0 to the CMP side of the SRAM cell and causes the TRU side of the SRAM cell to go high.

Referring also to and there are shown waveforms illustrating the operation of the exemplary SRAM write and read performance sort ring oscillator PSRO in accordance with the preferred embodiment.

Design process may include using a variety of inputs for example inputs from library elements which may house a set of commonly used elements circuits and devices including models layouts and symbolic representations for a given manufacturing technology such as different technology nodes 32 nm 45 nm 90 nm and the like design specifications characterization data verification data design rules and test data files which may include test patterns and other testing information. Design process may further include for example standard circuit design processes such as timing analysis verification design rule checking place and route operations and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art of integrated circuit design can appreciate the extent of possible electronic design automation tools and applications used in design process without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention. The design structure of the invention is not limited to any specific design flow.

Design process preferably translates an embodiment of the invention as shown in and along with any additional integrated circuit design or data if applicable into a second design structure . Design structure resides on a storage medium in a data format used for the exchange of layout data of integrated circuits for example information stored in a GDSII GDS GL OASIS or any other suitable format for storing such design structures. Design structure may comprise information such as for example test data files design content files manufacturing data layout parameters wires levels of metal vias shapes data for routing through the manufacturing line and any other data required by a semiconductor manufacturer to produce an embodiment of the invention as shown in and . Design structure may then proceed to a stage where for example design structure proceeds to tape out is released to manufacturing is released to a mask house is sent to another design house is sent back to the customer and the like.

While the present invention has been described with reference to the details of the embodiments of the invention shown in the drawing these details are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed in the appended claims.

