---

title: Question type-sensitive answer summarization
abstract: In a question answering system, the system identifies a type of question input by a user. The system then generates answer summaries that summarize answers to the input question in a format that is determined based on the type of question asked by the user. The answer summaries are output, in the corresponding format, in answer to the input question.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966316&OS=07966316&RS=07966316
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07966316
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
There are many different types of techniques for discovering information using a computer network. One specific technique is referred to as a community based question and answering service referred to as cQA . The cQA service is a kind of web service through which people can post questions and also answer other people s questions on a web site. The growth of cQA has been relatively significant and it has recently been offered by commercially available web search engines.

In current cQA services a community of users either subscribes to the service or simply accesses the service through a network. The users in the community can then post questions that are viewable by other users in the community. The community users can also post answers to questions that were previously submitted by other users. Therefore over time cQA services build up very large archives of previous questions and answers posted for those previous questions.

In some current cQA systems once the user who has asked a question and has received a sufficient number of answers the user can then choose the best answer from those answers that have been received. The user may also simply leave it to the community to vote for the best answer. This results in large question and answer archives representing knowledge repositories that can be used later.

For instance these repositories can be used to expedite answers to the user. In other words there is typically a lag time between the time when a user in the community posts a question and the time when other users of the community post answers to that question. In order to avoid this lag time some cQA services automatically search the archive of questions and answers to see if the same question has previously been asked. If the question is found in the archives then one or more previous answers can be provided in answer to the current question with very little delay. This type of searching for previous answers is sometimes referred to as question search or on line search .

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In a question answering system the system identifies a type of question input by a user. The system then generates answer summaries that summarize answers to the input question in a format that is determined based on the type of question asked by the user. The answer summaries are output in the corresponding format in answer to the input question.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

Answer summarization component then generates answer summaries in a form corresponding to the type of the question identified. This is indicated by block in . In doing so component attempts to summarize the answers that were identified by users as the best answers to the question being processed.

In analyzing the types of questions asked in cQA services it has been found that some types of questions have best answers that are reusable in later searching while others do not. For instance questions that ask for answers that are facts may likely have a best answer that is extremely useful in later searching. However cQA questions that ask for an opinion may not be helpful in later information searching.

For example a fact based closed ended question such as What was the birth date of Abraham Lincoln will have one unique answer. Therefore an answer that is labeled in a cQA system as the best answer to that question will likely be reusable and very relevant in later information searching. However a question such as What actress has the most seductive voice asks for an opinion. Therefore even the answer labeled by the community as the best answer is still only an opinion. Thus those answers may not be as reusable in later information searching processes.

Similarly even fact based open ended questions may not be as reusable as a closed ended question. For instance a question such as Does anyone know of any movie stars having birthdays coming up soon is open ended. First of all the time period of the question is relevant because it asks for birthdays that are coming up soon . Similarly there may be a wide variety of different people answering the question and so they may provided a wide variety of different birthdays for different movie stars depending on the type of movie that they enjoy. Thus answers to this type of fact based open ended question even if they are labeled as best answers may be less reusable or less relevant to later information searching processes.

Therefore in order to generate summaries of answers to cQA questions question type identifier identifies the question type and answer summarization component identifies the types of answers to the identified question and generates a summary of the best answers and optionally other answers as well in a format that is determined based on the type of the question identified.

The reusable best answers are further divided into factual best answers and subjective best answers . A factual best answer is a fact that can be used as the best answer while a subjective best answer is an opinion type of answer that can be used as the best answer.

The factual best answers can be divided into two further types those being unique best answers and non unique best answers . A unique best answer has only a single best answer to its question. A non unique best answer has alternative best answers.

These alternative non unique best answers can be divided into direct answers and indirect best answers . A direct answer is just that an answer that answers its question directly. An indirect answer is an answer which answers the question through inference.

The non reusable best answers are divided into two types relevant best answers and irrelevant best answers . Relevant best answers are not reusable as a best answer to its question if that question is asked at a later time but they are relevant to the question. An irrelevant best answer is not reusable as a best answer to its question and it is irrelevant to its question.

Table 1 first shows a reusable factual unique best answer. This best answer type provides enough useful information in the answer and no other answers add more information. For instance if a question asks Which country has the largest population and the best answer is China . This answer is accurate and complete so it can be categorized as the unique type.

The difference between direct and indirect answer types is a bit subtle. A direct best answer answers its question in a straightforward manner while an Indirect best answer answers its question in an inferred manner. Answerers of Indirect best answers usually look beyond the surface level of the question and try to give answers that satisfy the inferred needs behind question. For example a question asked Where can i download fatwire from because every website i go on wants to charge me and the best answer was http www.duckwire.com . This answer addresses the free and download parts of the question. However instead of giving a FatWire download site the BA suggested an alternative i.e. DuckWire that presumably would fulfill what the asker really wanted. Notice that a possible Direct BA suggested that download the basic version of FatWire from Fatwire.com that is free. Assume FatWire is a popular peer to peer P2P file sharing tool and that it has two versions. The Basic version is free but the Pro version is not free. It can be inferred from the question that the asker wanted the Pro version and not the Basic. A true Direct BA is a site where the asker could download the Pro version without paying but it may very likely be an illegal site even if it does exist. Therefore the DuckWire suggestion is likely a very good alternative. Another example of Direct vs. Indirect BA is shown earlier in Table 1. The question asked celebrity birthdays in the coming month November . A Direct BA contains a list of celebrity birthdays in November as shown in one of the answers in Table 1. A better alternative i.e. an Indirect one showed the asker where she can find this information herself not only for November but for all other months.

A Subjective BA answers questions that look for personal opinions or recommendations. For example a question asked What is the best sci fi movie u ever saw Each answerer would have his or her own opinion about what the best sci fi movie is. There might be consensus but it will likely not be unique. Many answers in the Entertainment Music category are this type.

Answers that fall into the Not Reusable category could be relevant or irrelevant to their questions. Despite their relevance they could not be used as the BAs. For example a question asked Why was The ABC Song by John Doe so shortlived A Relevant BA said I m not sure where you live but in NJ especially South Jersey that song was played out. It may have made the New Year s We re never playing this song again list. This BA seems relevant to the question but we could not be sure it is the BA without knowing where the asker resided.

There are many possible reasons that make a BA irrelevant. Two exemplary possible explanations are listed in Table 1. One is that the BA does not answer its question. For example a question asked for how to forward an email without showing the email addresses in the To box. There is an answer that contains the correct method put the email address into the bcc box but the best answer voted by one community is It appears that the question period has expired. If an answer has been given that meets your needs please pick a best answer . Another one is that the BA s question is nonsense and therefore its answers are as well. For example someone asked oink Whose gunna partay with me Though a BA was chosen it does not make sense to reuse the BA.

The informational question includes questions that request information about topics and can be divided into constant questions and dynamic questions . Constant questions have a fixed or stable set of answers while dynamic questions do not.

The dynamic questions can be further divided into three categories those including opinion context dependent questions and open questions . Opinion questions are those asking for opinions. Questions in this category seek opinions from people in the cQA community about what they think of someone some event some object etc. Context dependent questions are those questions which have different answers depending on the different context in which they are asked. For example the question What is the population of China will have different answers according to the date on which it is asked. Open questions are those questions that ask for some facts or methods but have a variety of answers or the answer itself may have unconstrained depth.

The transactional questions can further be divided into possessive questions and interactive questions . Possessive questions indicate the askers intention to own the resource requests regardless of whether a computer is required to make use of the required resource. The interactive questions are questions looking for entertainment or utility resources.

Social questions do not intend to obtain any given answer. These questions include telling jokes and expressing the askers own ideas. For instance one social question may be Why do so many lazy people come on here simply just to ask . . . The question is actually expressing a negative sentiment toward the large number of people who ask how to accomplish a certain task in the cQA community.

Identifying the question type and answer type as set out in can be done automatically or simply by asking the user to select such as from a drop down box the type of question or answer that is being provided.

In using these taxonomies and analyzing large archives of cQA responses it has been found that a number of the different question types have answers less than 50 percent of which can be reused in later searching given a similar type of question. Therefore in one embodiment answer summarization component uses question focused multi document summarization techniques to generate the best answers for reuse in answering questions that are submitted again later in the cQA service.

Generating summaries is discussed in greater detail below with respect to Tables 3 8. In any case however once the summaries are generated based on the type of question that the answers are provided for the questions and answer summaries which may be best answer summaries are output for use in other information searching systems such as in question answer systems . In that instance the questions with summarized answers can be stored in data store shown in . This is indicated by block in .

Some illustrative embodiments of summarizing answers based on question type will now be described. In doing this answer summarizer component illustratively invokes one of a plurality of different summarization modules 1 N one of which exists for each different question type. Examines of some illustrative summarization modules are shown in tables 3 5 and 6. The present discussion proceeds with respect to applying question focused multi document summarization techniques to create answer summaries for open and opinion questions questions and as shown in . Of course these techniques can be used with other question types as well and the open and opinion questions are discussed herein for the sake of example only.

In one embodiment answer summarization component employs the summarization steps set out in Table 3 in order to summarize open type questions . The steps in Table 3 follow multi document summarization procedures which include topic identification interpretation and fusion and then summary generation. In the topic identification phase answers are clustered using any of a wide variety of relatively simple clustering techniques. For instance cosine measure which is a known similarity measure can be used to estimate answer similarity and an empirically determined threshold can be used to merge answers into clusters. This is indicated in step 1 of Table 3.

Next in order to understand the main idea of each cluster salient noun phrases can be extracted using any of a wide variety of shallow parsing components. This is indicated in step 2 of Table 3. Each label or noun phrase in each cluster can then have a relevance score calculated for it such as by using a known first order relevance scoring function also sometimes referred to as automatic labeling of multi nomial topic models. This is set out in step 3 in Table 3. The relevance function can be used to extract a key answer that contains the noun phrase that has the highest score calculated in step 3 in each cluster and the key answers can also be ranked within each cluster based on the relevance score. This is indicated by step 4 in Table 3.

Finally the summarized answer can be presented to the user by extracting the most important answer in each cluster and sorting those most important answers according to the cluster size that spawned the answers. This is indicated by step 5 in Table 3.

Table 4 illustrates an example of summarization of results of an open type question. The question asked methods of changing a first style of operating system to a second style. There are many kinds of software that have this functionality. The best answer to the question only listed a single choice The ACMEDOCK product while other answers suggested ABC and DEF and GHI products. The summarized answer contains a variety of software that have this functionality and a web page link that lists all kinds of software for turning the first style of operating system into the second style.

Table 5 shows a question focused answer summarization technique for opinion type questions. Opinion type questions can be divided into two subcategories. One is sentiment oriented questions that ask the sentiment about something. For instance What do you think of . . . is a sentiment type question. The other type of opinion question is a list oriented question that requests a list of answers and looks to determine which item is most popular. In sentiment oriented questions the askers likely care about how many people support or oppose something. Table 5 shows steps for summarizing answers to sentiment type questions. Table 6 shows steps for summarizing list type questions. Tables 7 and 8 show summaries generated for sentiment type questions and list type questions respectively. Of course the methods in Tables 5 and 6 and the summaries in Tables 7 and 8 are exemplary only.

As shown in Table 5 Answers are summarized by first determining whether they begin with a negative queue phrase or a positive queue phrase. This can be done simply by using an opinion word dictionary that is a dictionary of opinion words and a queue phrase list that lists queue phrases into positive and negative queue phrases. If the answer beings with a negative queue phrase it is annotated as being against what is proposed and if it begins with a positive queue phrase it is annotated as supporting what is proposed.

If the answer cannot be annotated in step 1 then for a clause answer summarizer determines whether a number of positive sentiment words in the clause is larger than the number negative sentiment words. If so the clause is annotated positive and if not it is annotated negative .

In step 3 if there are negative indicators such as don t never etc. in front of the clause then the sentiment is reversed.

In step 4 if the number of negative clauses is larger than the number of positive clauses in the answer then the sentiment of the answer is negative . Otherwise it is positive .

Finally in step 5 of Table 5 the sentiment value of the question is denoted as S Q and the sentiment value of the answer is denoted as S A . The final sentiment of the answer is the logical Boolean AND of S Q and S A .

In Table 6 the steps for summarizing answers to list questions include first segmenting the answers into sentences and clustering the sentences using the clustering technique set out above in Table 3. This is indicated by steps 1 and 2 in Table 6.

Next for each cluster a key sentence based on mutual information between itself and other sentences within the cluster is chosen. The key sentences are then ranked by cluster size that spawned the key sentences. This is indicated by steps 3 and 4 in Table 6.

For the list oriented questions it can be seen that a simple counting algorithm tallies different answers of questions together with their supporting votes to obtain the answer summaries.

It can be seen that Table 7 presents the summarization result of a sentiment oriented question which asks whether it is strange for a 16 year old child to talk to a teddy bear. The best answer is a negative response. However if all answers are considered it can be seen that half of the answers agree but another half of them disagree. This tally is thus presented in the answer summarization.

Table 8 shows the summarization result of a list oriented question which asks for users to identify the best science fiction movie they have ever seen. The best answer just gives a single choice while the summarized answer gives a list of best science fiction movies with the number of supporting votes.

Question search component first receives an input question from a user. This is indicated by block in . Component then identifies within data store that contains questions with summarized answers whether any questions in data store are similar to question . This is indicated by block in . In doing so component can use any of a wide variety of different techniques that are used to identify similarity between two textual inputs. For instance component can identify the question type and keywords in the question and compare that with the question type and keywords content in data store . Of course other more sophisticated natural language processing techniques can be used as well. For instance component can convert the input question into a syntax parse tree or logical form content and that can be compared to syntax parse trees or logical forms generated for the questions in data store . A wide variety of other processing techniques can be used as well in order to identify questions in data store that are similar to input question .

In any case once the similar questions are identified in data store the answers to those questions are retrieved from data store . This is indicated by block in . Component then outputs the question and answer summaries for review by the user. This is indicated by block in . Of course component can also allow the user to interact with the summarized answers such as to identify a best answer among them or allow the community to define the best answer among them etc.

It should also be noted that question search component can be any type of information search component such as an information retrieval system. In that type of system data store may be a valuable repository of knowledge that can be searched in response to an information retrieval query. Therefore system is not limited to a community question answering system but can be any other type of information seeking system as well that accesses the data stored in store based on community based question answering services.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The systems discussed above in can be stored in other program modules or elsewhere including being stored remotely.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

