---

title: Triggers for time-shifted content playback
abstract: In accordance with one or more aspects, a trigger corresponding to media content is retrieved from a storage device. The trigger includes a time-shift parameter identifying how much playback of the media content can be time-shifted while keeping the trigger valid. A determination is made, based at least in part on a current time and the time-shift parameter, whether the trigger is valid during playback of the media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937382&OS=07937382&RS=07937382
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07937382
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080619
---
Time shifted viewing of television programs has been permitted by various technologies including video cassette recorders VCRs and more recently digital versatile disc DVD recorders and digital video recorders DVRs . Although time shifted viewing of programs can provide many advantages to users problems can also arise when playing back time shifted programs. For example some programs may allow for user input such as voting for particular contestants. Problems can arise if the user has recorded the program and is playing back the program time shifted because it may no longer make sense for the user to provide his or her input.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one or more aspects of the triggers for time shifted content playback a consumer device stores a trigger corresponding to media content on a storage device. The trigger is retrieved from the storage device and a check is made while playing back the media content whether one or more criteria of the trigger are satisfied the one or more criteria including a time shift parameter identifying how long the trigger is valid after the media content has been aired. One or more actions identified by the trigger are performed if the criteria of the trigger are satisfied and the one or more actions are not performed if the criteria of the trigger are not satisfied.

In accordance with one or more aspects of the triggers for time shifted content playback a trigger corresponding to media content is retrieved from a storage device. The trigger includes a time shift parameter identifying how much playback of the media content can be time shifted while keeping the trigger valid. A determination is made based at least in part on a current time and the time shift parameter whether the trigger is valid during playback of the media content.

In accordance with one or more aspects of the triggers for time shifted content playback a consumer device includes a trigger store and a monitor module. The trigger store is to store multiple triggers each of the multiple triggers comprising a criteria portion and a payload portion the criteria portion identifying one or more criteria and the payload portion identifying one or more actions to be performed. The one or more criteria include a time shift parameter. The monitor module is to monitor data corresponding to media content being played back and detect when the data satisfies the one or more criteria of one or more of the multiple triggers.

Triggers for time shifted content playback are discussed herein. Media content played back by consumer devices for time shifted viewing can have one or more corresponding triggers. Each trigger has a criteria portion and a payload portion. The payload portion identifies one or more actions to be performed when the criteria or parameters in the criteria portion are satisfied. One of these parameters in the criteria portion is a time shift parameter identifying how long the trigger is valid after the media content is first available. The consumer device checks while playing back the media content whether the trigger is still valid. If too much time has elapsed since distribution of the media content as indicated by the time shift parameter then the trigger is no longer valid. If valid the one or more actions identified in the payload portion of the trigger are performed otherwise the one or more actions identified in the payload portion of the trigger are not performed.

Consumer device includes a media content playback module a monitor module a trigger store and a content store . Media content refers to one or more of a variety of different types of content that can be played back to a user. Oftentimes media content is audio video content e.g. particular programs such as movies sitcoms commercials news broadcasts documentaries sporting events and so forth . The media content can thus be referred to as being or including a particular program. Alternatively media content can be only one type of content e.g. just audio content just video content etc. or can be other types of content e.g. images text and so forth .

Media content playback module receives media content and outputs media content . Media content can be received directly by playback module or alternatively can be received via content store . Content store allows for time shifted viewing of media content providing storage for media content . Although illustrated as part of consumer device it is to be appreciated that content store can be implemented on one or more removable media e.g. magnetic disk optical disc flash memory etc. and or one or more remote storage devices e.g. a server computer another consumer device etc. .

Time shifted viewing of media content can also be accomplished in other manners. For example media content can be a Video On Demand program. Viewing of the program can be time shifted due to the ability of the user to select a time for viewing of the program after the program is first available . Time shifted viewing of media content can refer to a variety of different situations where there is an expected time of viewing e.g. a time when the program is aired a time when the program is first available etc. and the actual viewing time by the user is different.

Media content playback module converts media content into a format that can be played back e.g. displayed by a display device played back by speakers etc. and outputs the converted media content as media content . Media content playback module can also receive input from a user e.g. via a remote control device or other component or module of device to control the output of media content such as to pause playback of the content select particular media content for playback fast forward or rewind through the media content and so forth.

Media content along with trigger result as discussed in more detail below are output by consumer device as media output . In one or more embodiments consumer device plays back media output e.g. displays video content plays back audio content and so forth . In other embodiments consumer device generates one or more signals based on media content and or trigger result that is output to one or more other devices e.g. televisions projectors speakers etc. which in turn display or otherwise present media output .

Media content can be distributed to consumer device in a variety of different manners. The sources of media content can be local sources such as a hard disk or a DVD that is inserted into coupled to or included as part of consumer device . The sources of media content can also be remote sources such as one or more remote servers satellite operators network television operators cable operators or other devices or operators making content available to consumer device . Remote sources can make content available over a variety of different types of transmission media such as one or more of satellite transmissions radio frequency transmissions cable transmissions the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a telephone network an intranet and so forth.

In one or more embodiments media content is aired over one or more transmission media and received by consumer device . The airing of media content refers to the transmitting of the program by the source via a transmission media. The aired media content can be stored in content store for time shifted playback. Alternatively media content can be played back as it is received without being stored in content store . In other embodiments media content can be distributed using other techniques such as optical discs flash memory and so forth.

Trigger store receives and stores triggers . Each trigger includes a payload portion identifying one or more actions to be performed and a criteria portion identifying one or more criteria that are to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions to be performed. Although illustrated as separate from content store alternatively trigger store and content store can be implemented as a single store. Additionally although illustrated as part of consumer device it is to be appreciated that trigger store can be implemented on one or more removable media e.g. magnetic disk optical disc flash memory etc. and or one or more remote storage devices e.g. a server computer another consumer device etc. .

Triggers can be distributed to consumer device in a variety of different manners. Analogous to media content triggers can be received from local sources or remote sources distributing triggers over a variety of different transmission media or using other distribution techniques. By way of example triggers can be received with media content e.g. embedded therein as part of a separate stream in metadata of media content etc. can be received with programming guide data can be received via a separate communication with a trigger source and so forth.

Payload portion identifies one or more actions to be performed. A variety of different actions can be included in payload portion . These actions can include displaying or otherwise presenting advertisements or other information running a particular application or program loading and displaying a Web page creating a new trigger performing one or more actions identified in the payload portions of one or more other triggers and so forth. Applications or programs identified in payload portion as to be run can be included in trigger e.g. in payload portion can have been previously downloaded to the consumer device on which trigger is being used can be downloaded or run from a Web page identified in payload portion and so forth.

Additionally the one or more actions identified in payload portion can include data a script or other instructions or other information to be made available to an application when the criteria in criteria portion is satisfied. This application can be monitor module of or alternatively another module or application. This application can be an already executing application or alternatively an application that is executed in response to the criteria in criteria portion being satisfied.

Different triggers can identify different actions to be performed with the author or creator of a particular trigger being able to include the particular one or more actions that they desire in payload portion . For example payload portion can identify one or more actions to run a feedback application that displays on the consumer device a user interface allowing the user to input feedback regarding the media content corresponding to trigger . By way of another example payload portion can identify one or more actions to run a voting application that displays on the consumer device a user interface allowing the user to vote for a particular contestant in the media content corresponding to trigger .

Criteria portion identifies one or more parameters or criteria that are to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions in payload portion to be performed. At least one of these one or more criteria is a time shift parameter . Although only one time shift parameter is illustrated in in alternate embodiments multiple time shift parameters can be included in criteria portion e.g. different time shift parameters can be associated with different actions in payload portion .

Time shift parameter identifies how much playback of the media content corresponding to trigger can be time shifted while keeping the trigger valid. If trigger is valid criteria portion would be satisfied assuming any other criteria in portion is satisfied and the one or more actions in payload portion would be performed as discussed in more detail below. If trigger is invalid criteria portion would not be satisfied and the one or more actions in payload portion would not be performed as discussed in more detail below.

In one or more embodiments time shift parameter identifies an explicit date and or time at which trigger becomes invalid. For example time shift parameter can identify that trigger becomes invalid at 11 00 pm local time or in a particular time zone on Apr. 15 2008. In one or more other embodiments time shift parameter is a relative value identifying an amount of time after the media content corresponding to trigger has aired or has otherwise been distributed. For example the media content can have a corresponding indication of when the media content was first available e.g. first aired first available for download first available for playback etc. and time shift parameter can be relative to this first available time. Once this amount of time has elapsed trigger becomes invalid. For example time shift parameter can identify that trigger becomes invalid three hours after the program corresponding to trigger is first available e.g. three hours from the beginning of airing of the media content three hours from the ending of airing of the media content three hours after a Video On Demand program is first available and so forth .

It should be noted that a trigger can be valid even though it may initially appear that the time shift parameter will not be satisfied. For example assume that time shift parameter identifies that trigger becomes invalid three hours from the ending of airing of a program. If a user begins playback of the program four hours after the beginning of airing of the program then it may appear that time shift parameter would not be satisfied. However if the user fast forwards or skips over part of the program then it is possible that by the time the user is watching the end of the program the time is still within three hours from the ending of airing of the program and the time shift parameter would be satisfied.

In one or more embodiments time shift parameter can have a particular value indicating that there are no restrictions on how much playback of the media content corresponding to trigger can be time shifted. In other words this particular value indicates that any amount of time shifting is permissible. Alternatively some triggers may not include the time shift parameter with the absence of time shift parameter indicating that any amount of time shifting is permissible.

Additionally various other criteria can also be included in criteria portion . In one or more embodiments this criteria includes an identifier of particular media content. This identifier can be for example a title or name of the particular media content a summary or other description of the content or some other identifier. When such criteria are included in criteria portion the one or more actions in payload portion are performed only when that particular identified media content is being played back.

In one or more embodiments a delay parameter is included in criteria portion . The delay parameter identifies how long after the other criteria or parameters in criteria portion are satisfied that the one or more actions in payload portion are to be performed. Analogous to the time shift parameter this delay parameter can be an explicit value or a relative value e.g. relative to a starting time of the media content an ending time of the media content and so forth . For example trigger may indicate that at a particular time when a particular channel is tuned to a particular application is to be run and time shift parameter can identify the playback of the corresponding media content can be time shifted up to two hours. The particular time particular channel and time shift parameter are identified in criteria portion and the one or more actions to run the particular application are identified in payload portion . Additionally a delay parameter can be included in criteria portion to indicate that once the particular time and particular channel criteria are satisfied running of the particular application is to be delayed one hour. Alternatively the delay parameter or an indication of the delay can be included elsewhere. For example the delay parameter or an indication of the delay can be included in payload portion monitor module of otherwise accessible to monitor module and so forth. Accordingly even though the other criteria in criteria portion are satisfied the particular application would not be run until an hour later due to the delay parameter.

Returning to monitor module monitors data of media content to identify when the criteria of one or more triggers are satisfied. Monitor module can communicate with playback module to identify the particular media content being output by module at any given time. Alternatively monitor module can receive media content directly or via content store and monitor this received content directly rather than via playback module . Monitor module can monitor data of media content as media content is received from content store or alternatively from another source.

In one or more embodiments triggers correspond to particular media content. This correspondence can be identified in a variety of different manners. For example an identifier of the media content can be included in the criteria portion of the media content. By way of another example triggers can be collected or grouped together in trigger store based on their corresponding media content. Alternatively a trigger can correspond to all media content to multiple different media content and so forth.

Monitor module can monitor one or more of different types of content included in media content . For example monitor module can monitor one or more of audio content and video content. Additionally in one or more embodiments media content includes metadata content and monitor module can monitor this metadata content. The metadata can be included as part of e.g. embedded in other types of content e.g. included in a vertical blanking interval VBI of video content included in a packet header and so forth . Alternatively the metadata can be separate from other types of content such as being included in a separate stream or channel from the audio video and or other types of content. This metadata included in media content is associated with and describes the audio video and or other types of content in media content . Examples of such metadata include closed captioning data that is a text version of the audio content included in media content teletext data corresponding to media content song or program title information corresponding to media content and so forth.

When the data of media content satisfies the one or more criteria of a trigger the one or more actions identified in that trigger are performed. The data of media content being monitored can include the media content itself such as metadata video content audio content and so forth. The media content itself can be monitored to identify particular text e.g. particular letters numbers symbols and so forth particular images particular audio data and so forth. The particular manner in which media content is monitored is based at least in part on the one or more triggers . For example if a trigger indicates that one criteria is particular text that is to occur in media content then monitor module monitors the media content for that particular text.

The data of media content being monitored can also include different data describing the playback of media content . This different data can be obtained from different sources such as included as part of media content e.g. header information describing media content from media content playback module from content store and so forth. A variety of different data describing the playback of media content can be monitored such as a television channel that is tuned to for playback the title of program being played back as the media content and so forth.

During playback of media content monitor module maintains and or accesses a current date and or time. This current date and or time can be for example a system or device time maintained by the consumer device playing back the media content. This current date and or time can be used by monitor module in determining whether one or more of the criteria of a trigger are satisfied. For example the current date and or time can be compared to the value of the time shift parameter in the trigger to determine whether the trigger is valid at the current date and or time.

It should be noted that in one or more embodiments the data of media content is available for analysis by monitor module an amount of time e.g. at least a few seconds before the media content is played back by module . Accordingly monitor module can analyze the data of media content prior to the media content being played back by module allowing the one or more actions to be performed at approximately the same time or alternatively an amount of time before particular criteria are actually satisfied by the media content . For example if the criteria were to run a particular application causing a user interface to be displayed at a particular time then the media content can be analyzed and the application run an amount of time before that particular time specified by the criteria so that the user interface can be displayed at that particular time specified by the criteria.

When monitor module determines that the one or more criteria of a trigger are satisfied monitor module performs the one or more actions in the payload portion of that trigger. In response to performing these one or more actions monitor module generates a trigger result that is output by consumer device . Media content and or trigger result are output by consumer device as media output . In one or more embodiments media content and trigger result are output concurrently as media output . In such embodiments playback of media content can continue while trigger result is output or alternatively playback of media content can be paused while trigger result is output. Alternatively media content and trigger result can be output separately with the output of one of content and result being excluded from media output when the other is being output.

Trigger result can be the output of a variety of different types of content such as video content image content audio content and so forth. Trigger result can be displayed or otherwise presented concurrently with media content . For example trigger result can be video content or an image that is displayed overlaid on media content such as a small icon at the bottom of a display. These small icons can also be referred to as bugs . By way of another example trigger result can be audio content that is played back concurrently with media content . By way of yet another example trigger result can be displayed in a separate portion or window e.g. in a picture in picture PIP window from media content . Alternatively as above trigger result can be displayed or otherwise presented separately from the display or other presentation of media content .

Additionally it should be noted that in order to perform the one or more actions identified in the payload portion of a trigger monitor module may access one or more other devices. For example monitor module may access a remote device over a network to retrieve content to be displayed as trigger result . In one or more embodiments monitor module accesses a remote server over the Internet to retrieve one or more images or Web pages to be displayed as trigger result .

Alternatively in one or more embodiments monitor module invokes one or more other components or modules to generate the output of trigger result . For example monitor module can invoke a Web browser module a remote device communication module e.g. supporting RDP Remote Desktop Protocol other applications that display or otherwise present information and so forth. Such other components or modules can be invoked in a variety of different manners such as firing an event that is dispatched to the appropriate component or module by an event dispatcher invoking an application programming interface API exposed by the component or module and so forth.

Monitor module can be implemented to monitor the data of media content and compare it to triggers in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments monitor module or alternatively another component or module generates trigger objects and session objects. A trigger object is generated for each trigger and includes the criteria and actions to be performed from the criteria and payload portions of the trigger . A session object is also generated that describes the current media content session. The session object includes data of the media content e.g. channel number via which the media content is being received call sign of the channel via which the media content is being received title of the programming that is distributed as the media content and so forth . Metadata of the media content or other types of data being monitored by module is typically not included in this session object but rather is analyzed as it is received. Alternatively this metadata or other type of data can be included in the session object.

Triggers can be provisioned triggers and or application based triggers. A provisioned trigger refers to a trigger that is distributed to consumer device by some remote device or component. This distribution is initiated by the remote device or component and the provision triggers typically remain in trigger store until they expire or are updated by the remote device or component. An application based trigger refers to a trigger that is added to trigger store by an application or module running on consumer device . Application based triggers typically remain in trigger store while the application is running and are removed from trigger store when the application stops running.

In one or more embodiments all of the criteria included in the criteria portion of the trigger need to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions in the payload portion to be performed. Alternatively various logical operators such as AND and OR can be used in conjunction with the criteria to allow different combinations to be defined. For example four different criteria could be listed at least one of which is to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions to be performed. By way of another example three different criteria could be listed a particular one of which and either one or both of the other two is are to be satisfied in order for the one or more actions to be performed.

Additionally it should be noted that criteria can be full match or partial match criteria. Full match criteria indicates that the criteria is to match the data of the programming content exactly whereas partial match criteria indicates that the data of the programming is to include at least the partial match criteria. For example if the data of the programming were Microsoft Corporation and the criteria were Corporation then the criteria would be a partial match to the data of the programming but not a full match. Whether criteria is full match or partial match can be inherent in the particular criteria or identified in other manners such as including a flag or other value with the criteria indicating whether it is full match or partial match.

Furthermore partial match criteria can be a starts with partial match an anywhere partial match or other type of partial match. A starts with partial match indicates that the data of the programming is to start with the criteria whereas an anywhere partial match indicates that the criteria can be included anywhere in the data of the programming. For example if the data of the programming were Microsoft Corporation and the criteria were Corporation then the criteria would be an anywhere partial match to the data of the programming but not a starts with partial match. Other types of partial matches can also be defined using regular expressions. For example quantifiers or wild cards can be used such as to indicate zero or more characters to indicate zero or one characters and so forth. Whether partial match criteria is starts with or anywhere criteria or alternatively other criteria can be inherent in the particular criteria or can be identified in other manners such as including a flag or other value with the criteria indicating whether it is starts with or anywhere.

In one or more embodiments trigger result is output for a particular amount of time. The duration of the output of trigger result can be the same for all triggers or alternatively can vary by trigger. In one or more embodiments each trigger includes as part of its payload portion an identifier of the duration of the output of trigger result for that particular trigger. This can be an explicit identifier e.g. display a particular image for fifteen seconds or an implicit identifier e.g. run a particular program and cease outputting the user interface of that particular program when the program stops running when a particular user input has been received by the program and so forth . Alternatively the duration can be identified in different manners. For example monitor module can be programmed or otherwise configured with an indication of the duration media content can identify durations for trigger results occurring during playback of media content and so forth.

Additionally in one or more embodiments monitor module performs the one or more actions identified in a trigger once. After the one or more actions have been performed once monitor module no longer performs the actions even though the criteria of the trigger may be satisfied. Alternatively in other embodiments monitor module can perform the actions one or more actions identified in a trigger each time the criteria are satisfied. In such embodiments monitor module can restrict how frequently the actions can be performed. For example even though the criteria may be satisfied every 30 seconds monitor module can restrict the actions to being performed no more than once every hour no more than once for a particular program and so forth.

Such restrictions can be imposed by monitor module in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments a trigger includes an indication of how frequently the one or more actions can be performed. This indication can be included for example in the payload portion of the trigger. When the criteria of a trigger are satisfied and the one or more actions performed monitor module obtains an indication of how frequently the one or more actions can be performed. This indication can indicate a time e.g. 30 seconds five minutes once per day etc. in which case monitor module does not perform the one or more actions until after that amount of time has elapsed. Monitor module need not check whether the criteria of that trigger are satisfied until after that indicated frequency is passed. Alternatively monitor module may check whether the criteria of the trigger are satisfied but not perform the one or more actions until after that indicated frequency is passed. Alternatively this indication can be a count value e.g. 5 8 12 50 etc. in which case monitor module keeps track of how many times the one or more actions have been performed in response to the criteria being satisfied and does not perform the one or more actions after the count value has been reached. This count value can optionally be reset at regular or irregular intervals e.g. hourly daily each time a new program begins or a channel change occurs and so forth .

It should be noted that conflict situations can arise where the criteria of multiple different triggers are satisfied concurrently. Such conflicts can be resolved in a variety of different manners. In one or more embodiments each trigger includes a priority value and the conflict is resolved by performing the actions for the trigger with the higher priority value. In other embodiments monitor module can keep track of when the actions identified by the different triggers have been performed. In such embodiments these conflicts can be resolved by performing the actions for the trigger that least recently had its actions performed. Alternatively these conflicts can be resolved in other manners such as random selection of a trigger concurrently performing the actions identified by multiple triggers selecting triggers according to some other criteria or rules and so forth.

As discussed above a variety of different criteria or parameters can be included in the criteria portion of a trigger. Table I lists example criteria that can be included in the criteria portion of a trigger in accordance with one or more embodiments. It is to be appreciated that Table I lists only example criteria not all of the criteria in Table I need be used or alternatively additional criteria can be included.

These triggers thus allow different actions to be performed in a variety of different manners and further allow user interaction in a variety of different manners. For example a trigger can be generated with a time shift parameter indicating that playback of a program can be time shifted two hours. If playback of the program occurs within two hours of the airing of the program then the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger would be performed assuming any other criteria of the trigger are satisfied otherwise the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger would not be performed.

By way of another example a trigger can be generated with a time shift parameter indicating that playback of the program can be time shifted two hours a program relative beginning time parameter indicating that playback of the program is to be within the first five minutes of the program and a delay parameter indicating that the one or more actions in the payload portion are to be performed at the end of the program. Thus in order for the criteria of this trigger to be satisfied playback of the program cannot be time shifted more than two hours and at least a portion of the first five minutes of the program is to be played back. If these criteria are satisfied assuming any other criteria of the trigger are also satisfied then the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger would be performed at the end of the program otherwise the one more actions in the payload portion of the trigger would not be performed.

In one or more embodiments monitor module resets triggers whenever a change in channel being played back is made. Resetting a trigger refers to treating the trigger as if none of the criteria of the trigger have been satisfied so that the one or more criteria of the trigger would need to be re satisfied in order for the one or more actions identified by the trigger to be performed. In such embodiments this can result in the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger not being performed even though the criteria the trigger may have been satisfied. Following the previous example if playback of the program was not time shifted more than two hours and at least a portion of the first five minutes of the program was played back then these criteria of the trigger have been satisfied but the delay parameter indicates that the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger are not to be performed until the end of the program. If the user tunes to a different channel after ten minutes this trigger is reset so even if the user were to return to this channel the one or more actions in the payload portion of the trigger would not be performed.

Some example triggers are discussed in the following. It is to be appreciated that these are only examples and that other formats and triggers can be used with the triggers for time shifted content playback discussed herein. One example trigger is 

This example trigger indicates that the criteria are a program title TITLE is to be xyz and playback of the program can be time shifted TIME SHIFT up to two hours after the program was aired e.g. playback of the program can be time shifted to begin up to two hours after the program was aired . If that criteria are satisfied then an action EVENT of act1 is to be performed. This action act1 can be any of a variety of different actions as discussed above. Another example trigger is 

This example trigger indicates that the criteria are a program title TITLE is to be xyz playback of the program can be time shifted TIME SHIFT until Apr. 15 2008 at 11 00 pm and a program relative beginning time parameter BEG indicates that at least part 5 minutes of the beginning of the program is to be played back. A delay parameter DELAY indicates that if the other criteria TITLE TIME SHIFT and BEG are satisfied then one or more actions identified at someURL e.g. running a program displaying a Web page etc. are to be performed at the end of the program identified as 59 minutes and 30 seconds after the beginning of the program.

In process one or more triggers corresponding to media content are received and stored act . As discussed above the triggers can be received in a variety of different manners via a variety of different transmission media or using other distribution techniques. The corresponding media content can also optionally be received and stored in act or alternatively the media content need not be stored. Additionally the media content and corresponding triggers can be received together or separately as discussed above.

A request to playback the media content is also received act . This request can be received from a user or alternatively another component module or device. The request can be for previously aired media content e.g. media content that has been received and stored or alternatively for other media content e.g. for media content currently being aired .

In response to the request in act one or more triggers corresponding to the media content are retrieved act . These one or more triggers are the triggers received in act .

For each of the one or more triggers a check or determination is made as to whether the criteria of the trigger including a time shift parameter is or are satisfied act . If the criteria is or are not satisfied then the one or more actions identified by the trigger are not performed act . However if the criteria is or are satisfied then the one or more actions identified by the trigger are performed act . Regardless of whether the one or more actions are performed process continues checking the criteria in act while the media content is being playback.

It should be noted that different triggers can have different criteria but identify the same one or more actions. Accordingly even though the one or more actions are not performed in act because the criteria for one of the triggers is not satisfied this does not prevent those same one or more actions from being performed in act when the criteria of that trigger is later satisfied or the criteria of another trigger identifying the same one or more actions are satisfied.

Each of client systems N includes a respective television client device N and a respective display device N such as any type of television monitor LCD projector or similar television based display system that renders audio video and or image data. Any of client devices N can be implemented as any one or combination of a television client device a gaming system or as any other computing based device such as a desktop computer a portable computer a television set top box a digital video recorder DVR an appliance device a gaming console and or as any other type of computing based client device. Any of television client devices N may also be associated with a user e.g. a person and or an entity that operates a client device such that a television client device describes logical clients that include users software and or devices.

Any of television client devices N of the respective client systems N can be implemented with one or more processors a communication module memory components a media content rendering system and a monitor module and trigger store to implement embodiments of triggers for time shifted content playback. Additionally each of television client devices N can be configured for communication with any number of different content distributors to receive any type of media content via the communication network . Further any of the television client devices N can be implemented with any number and combination of differing components as further described with reference to the example client device shown in .

In this example client device is a television set top box that is connected or otherwise communicatively linked to a computing device that can be implemented to display trigger results . Although example trigger results are illustrated in it is to be appreciated that trigger results can be presented in other manners as discussed above. Computing device can also be configured for communication with a content distributor to receive the trigger e.g. triggers of via the communication network .

Consumer device includes one or more media content inputs that may include Internet Protocol IP inputs over which streams of media content are received via an IP based network. Consumer device further includes communication interface s that can be implemented as any one or more of a serial and or parallel interface a wireless interface any type of network interface a modem and as any other type of communication interface. A wireless interface enables client device to receive control input commands and other information from an input device such as from remote control device a portable computing based device such as a cellular phone or from another infrared IR 802.11 Bluetooth or similar RF input device.

A network interface provides a connection between consumer device and a communication network by which other electronic and computing devices can communicate data with device . Similarly a serial and or parallel interface provides for data communication directly between client device and the other electronic or computing devices. A modem facilitates client device communication with other electronic and computing devices via a conventional telephone line a DSL connection cable and or other type of connection.

Consumer device also includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of device to communicate with other electronic and computing devices and to implement embodiments of triggers for time shifted content playback. Consumer device can be implemented with computer readable media such as one or more memory components examples of which include random access memory RAM nonvolatile memory e.g. any one or more of a read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM EEPROM etc. and a disk storage device. A disk storage device can include any type of magnetic or optical storage device such as a hard disk drive a recordable and or rewriteable compact disc CD a DVD a DVD RW and the like.

Computer readable media provides data storage mechanisms to store various information and or data such as software applications and any other types of information and data related to operational aspects of consumer device . For example an operating system and or other computer applications can be maintained as software applications with the computer readable media and executed on processor s to implement embodiments of the triggers for time shifted content playback.

Consumer device can also include a program guide application that is implemented to process program guide data and generate program guides for display. A program guide enables a viewer to navigate through an onscreen display and locate various media content such as broadcast programs recorded programs video on demand programs and movies interactive game selections network based applications and other media content of interest to the viewer. Consumer device can also include a monitor module shown as a software module in this example to implement various embodiments of triggers for time shifted content playback as described herein.

Consumer device can also include a DVR system with playback application and recording media to maintain recorded media content that consumer device receives and or records. Further consumer device may access or receive additional recorded media content that is maintained with a remote data store not shown . Consumer device may also receive media content from a video on demand server or media content that is maintained at a broadcast center or content distributor that distributes the media content to subscriber sites and client devices. Playback application is a video control application that can be implemented to control the playback of media content the recorded media content and or other video on demand media content music and any other audio video and or image media content which can be rendered and or displayed for viewing. Playback application can be for example media content playback module of .

Consumer device also includes an audio and or video output that provides audio and or video data to an audio rendering and or display system . Audio rendering and or display system can include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video and image data. Video signals and audio signals can be communicated from consumer device to a display device via an RF radio frequency link S video link composite video link component video link DVI digital video interface analog audio connection or other similar communication link. Alternatively audio rendering and or display system can be implemented as integrated components of the example consumer device . Consumer device along with the audio rendering and or display system is an example of a viewing system that can be implemented in a household viewing area for viewing television programs and or receiving other television media content.

Communication network can be implemented as any one or combination of a wide area network e.g. the Internet a local area network LAN an intranet an IP based network a broadcast network a wireless network a Digital Subscriber Line DSL network infrastructure a point to point coupling infrastructure or as any other media content distribution network. Additionally communication network can be implemented using any type of network topology and any network communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks. A digital network can include various hardwired and or wireless links N routers gateways and so on to facilitate communication between content distributor and client systems N .

System includes a media server that receives media content from a content source program guide data from a program guide source and advertising content from an advertisement source . This advertising content can be advertising content associated with triggers as discussed above e.g. advertising content displayed when the criteria of a trigger is satisfied and or different advertising content presented to users of system . In one or more embodiments media server represents an acquisition server that receives the audio and video media content from content source an EPG server that receives the program guide data from program guide source and or an advertising management server that receives the advertising content from the advertisement source .

Content source program guide source and advertisement source control distribution of the media content the program guide data and at least some of the advertising content to the media server and or to other servers. The media content program guide data and advertising content can be distributed via various transmission media such as satellite transmission radio frequency transmission cable transmission and or via any number of other wired or wireless transmission media. In this example media server is shown as an independent component of system that communicates the media content program guide data and advertising content to content distributor . In an alternate implementation media server can be implemented as a component of content distributor .

Content distributor is representative of a headend service in a content distribution system for example that provides the media content program guide data and advertising content to multiple subscribers e.g. the client systems N . Content distributor can be implemented as a satellite operator a network television operator a cable operator and the like to control distribution of media content program and advertising content such as movies television programs commercials music and other audio video and or image content to client systems N .

Content distributor includes various content distribution components to facilitate media content processing and distribution such as a subscriber manager a device monitor and one or more content servers. The subscriber manager manages subscriber data and the device monitor monitors client systems N e.g. and the subscribers and maintains monitored client state information.

Although the various managers servers and monitors of content distributor to include media server in one or more embodiments are described as distributed independent components of content distributor any one or more of the managers servers and monitors can be implemented together as a multi functional component of content distributor . Additionally any one or more of the managers servers and monitors described with reference to system can implement features and embodiments of triggers for time shifted content playback.

Content distributor includes communication interface s that can be implemented as any type of interface to communicate and receive data from client devices of the television system. Content distributor also includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of content distributor . Content distributor can be implemented with computer readable media which provides data storage to maintain software applications such as an operating system and media content for distribution to the client systems N .

Client systems N can each be implemented to include a client device and a display device e.g. a television LCD and the like . A client device of a respective client system can be implemented in any number of embodiments such as a set top box a digital video recorder DVR and playback system an appliance device a gaming system and as any other type of client device that may be implemented in an entertainment and information system. In an alternate embodiment client system N is implemented with a computing device as well as a client device. The computing device is an example of a connected data store that can record and maintain media content for a client device. Additionally any client device of a respective client system can implement features and embodiments of triggers for time shifted content playback as described herein.

Generally any of the functions or techniques described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or combinations thereof. In the case of a software implementation the module or component represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices. The features of the triggers for time shifted content playback techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques can be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

