---

title: System and method for password-free access for validated users
abstract: A new approach is proposed that first validates identity of a user/individual who is initiating a request for a web service for the first time. Once validated, the user is allowed to access the web service, to register securely with the provider of the web service, and to create a series of personalized questions to be used for future validation purposes. During the user's subsequent request for the web service, the user will be asked, in addition to his/her user name, one or more of the personalized questions he/she created on rotation basis in place of a PIN or password.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515847&OS=08515847&RS=08515847
owner: Microfolio Data, LLC
number: 08515847
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080619
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 118 135 filed May 9 2008 and entitled System and Method for User Identity Validation for Online Transactions by Michael J. Schultz which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 046 383 filed Apr. 18 2008 and entitled Digital Identity Validation for Fraud Protection by Michael J. Schultz and all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In prior times identity related fraud was limited to transactions where the fraudulent party was always present to perpetrate the identity fraud whether by means of forged checks improper use of bank or credit accounts scamming money off an unsuspecting victim or pretending to be someone other than who that person was in real life to obtain funds or perpetrate harm. Since the advent of widespread use of the internet in early 1990 s the internet has served as a platform for a variety of e commerce venues which allows and even encourages more participation in various aspects of digital life such as online banking buying products from online merchants via credit cards sending text messages to one another interacting with others in social networks either as an user or part of a group. Consequently crimes related to identity theft have become an increasingly serious threat with 53 of all fraud done online representing a multi billion dollar loss to the industry.

There are various technologies current being employed to avoid identity related fraud online. Many require the use of a user name along with a PIN or password to access various services and databases provided online. When a higher degree of security is desired technologies involving hardware devices such as a fingerprint reader or a USB key can be employed. Additionally other technologies that have been utilized include but are not limited to identifying Media Access Control MAC address of a device used to participate in a digitally based interaction sniffing the IP address to confirm if the originating address is the anticipated one determining the identity by accessing credit reporting agencies and requesting forensic report of previous purchase discrepancies associated with the user name data or credit card as well as manual review of purchases including outbound call centers to validate that the consumer has actually placed an order. These hardware reliant technologies are designed to minimize or eliminate human interaction relying instead on complex algorithms to define if an online user is actually the person he she proclaimed to be while requiring only minimal interaction with the user him herself to prove identity. Although these solutions offer a higher degree of security they are cumbersome restrictive and require a higher level of user compliance to be effective. On the other hand the alternative of using user names PINs and passwords to access certain web based applications or contents opens up vulnerabilities to services and databases. As people are constantly being required to create PINs and passwords they may in most cases simply adopt a single PIN password or put the PINs and passwords down in writing. PIN password so created and or kept may often be forgotten misplaced or simply lost by the user causing a huge gap in security for any web based system.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The specific embodiments described in this document represent examples or embodiments of the present invention and are illustrative in nature rather than restrictive. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or some embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Features and aspects of various embodiments may be integrated into other embodiments and embodiments illustrated in this document may be implemented without all of the features or aspects illustrated or described.

A new approach is proposed that first validates identity of a user individual who is initiating a request for a web service for the first time. Once validated the user is allowed to access the web service to register securely with the provider of the web service and to create a series of personalized questions to be used for future validation purposes. During the user s subsequent request for the web service the user will be asked in addition to his her user name one or more of the personalized questions he she created on rotation basis in place of a PIN or password. Such a validation access process occurs online in real time by the user in person to avoid unnecessary delays that might otherwise be incurred if validation occurs by telephone call mail internet and other traditional validation methods.

The process described above acts as an additional layer of identity management to any existing enterprise that provides web services to users. Since the personalized questions are based on the user s own personal experiences in life they tend to be unforgettable by the user yet such questions remain to be totally confidential to anyone but the user him herself. Consequently the process protects against identity theft without the complexity of a hardware solution or the potential security gap caused by the PIN password approach. As used in the present disclosure the term validation or verification shall be defined as confirmation of an identity of a user.

In the example of each of the web service engine the validation engine the credit reporting engine the credit database and the user database communicates with others via one or more communication interfaces not shown . Here a communication interface is a software component that enables the web service engine the validation engine the credit reporting engine and the credit database to reach communicate with and or exchange information data files with each other via a network by invoking agreed upon interfaces such as Application Programming Interfaces APIs and following certain agreed upon communication protocols such as TCP IP protocol wireless protocol or any standard communication protocols.

In the example of each of the web service engine the validation engine the credit reporting engine the credit database and the user database communicates with others over a network not shown . Here the network can be a communication network based on certain communication protocols such as TCP IP protocol. Such network can be but is not limited to internet intranet wide area network WAN local area network LAN wireless network Bluetooth WiFi WiMAX satellite cellular and mobile communication networks. The physical connections of the network and the communication protocols are well known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments some or all of the web service engine the validation engine the credit reporting engine the credit database and the user database communicate with each other via one or more virtual private networks VPN which can be a high speed dedicated network that permits the transfer of large amounts of data with limited transmission lag time. Through the use of a private and dedicated network or shared network with aggregate high bandwidth and potentially Quality of Service QoS guarantees or priorities communications of all forms are received by recipient in a near instantaneous form with little perceptible delay. In addition the parties may communicate with each other via an e mail an instant messaging IM short messaging system SMS a multimedia messaging system MMS Wireless Application Protocol WAP or any other method suitable for distributed or mobile communication. This variety enables communication between the parties even on disparate platforms and mobile operating systems to communicate via one or more of structured data numbers text voice and images. In one embodiment the communication is nearly instantaneous. However the approach also works in asynchronous environments. For example a user may receive a message such as via email which initiates an interaction between the user and the validation engine wherein the security of that interaction is enhanced by that interaction being time limited.

In the example of the web service engine the validation engine and the credit reporting engine are operable to provide services on behalf of an online service provider a third party validator and a credit reporting agency respectively via one or more hosting devices hosts . Here a host can be a computing device a communication device a storage device or any electronic device capable of running software. For non limiting examples a computing device can be but is not limited to a laptop PC a desktop PC a tablet PC or a server machine. A storage device can be but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash memory drive or any portable storage device. A communication device can be but is not limited to a mobile or cellular phone.

In the example of the web service engine provides a web service to a user over the network. Such web service enables the user to for non limiting examples access web content invoke a web based application or conduct an online transaction. When the user initiates access to the web service with the web service engine for the first time the web service engine will first request validation of the identity of the user from the validation engine . To this end the web service engine requests certain personal data of the user which may include but is not limited to name address telephone number e mail address etc. and provides such information to the validation engine to verify the user s identity.

In the example of the identity validation engine validates the identity of the user upon the request of the web service engine . More specifically the identity validation engine is given certain information of the user from the web service engine that is requesting the identity validation. The identity validation engine then provides such information of the user to the credit reporting engine either individually or as a batch which provides a set of Knowledge Based Authentication KBA questions in return. Here the set of KBA questions are generated by the credit reporting engine based on credit profile of the user retrieved from the credit database . These questions are generally out of wallet type questions that do not contain personally identifying information of the user and are not related to the person s credit cards personal data used to identify them or commonly known information of the user. Currently information from the user s credit files has been used to authorize access to online accounts for credit file reporting e.g. Experian at creditexpert.com or for lost account passwords with a credit card issuer e.g. Chase at chase.com . However such information has not been utilized for online identity validation.

In one embodiment of the credit reporting engine performs a reverse lookup for the user s social security number using the user s information provided by the identity validation engine . Based on the user s social security number the credit reporting engine is able to retrieve the user s profile and or credit history from the credit database and generates a set of KBA questions that are specifically tailored based on the user s profile and or credit history. For non limiting examples the set of KBA questions may include but are not limited to a specific transaction on a specific date the location of a recent transaction prior addresses or phone numbers etc. Once the user s responses to the set of KBA questions are retrieved and provided to the credit reporting engine by the identity validation engine the credit reporting engine may rate or grade the responses and provide the grading back to the identity validation engine .

In the example of the credit database coupled to the credit reporting engine can include both public and or private databases. The database is operable to store and manage identity profile and or credit history of the user wherein such information may include but is not limited to credit scores transaction history reported incidents or issues regarding previous transactions made by the user. In addition the database may also contain KBA questions and answers or the database may be used to generate KBA questions and answers tailored to each user s credit and or transaction history. Here the term database is used broadly to include any known or convenient means for storing data whether centralized or distributed relational or otherwise. Due to their sensitive nature records in the credit database should be highly secured and optionally encrypted. Such record can be indexed and be made searchable via any of the information of the user such as credit card number social security number name or telephone number upon request. In one embodiment the KBA questions do not contain personally identifying information but rather person specific information and therefore does not compromise the security of the credit reporting engine or database or the user s identity. In one embodiment the selection of KBA questions to ask the user varies from one transaction to another thereby limiting the potential damage if the KBA questions and their answers are somehow intercepted or otherwise compromised. In one environment sensitive personally identifying information such as social security number are not disclosed by the credit reporting engine but rather are used internally to generate KBA questions and answers which are much less sensitive that the personally identifying information.

In the example of the identity validation engine provides the set of KBA questions to the user once the questions are generated via the web service engine which at least in some embodiments may then present e.g. display or speak via computer generated voice the KBA questions automatically to the user for validation of the user s identity. Alternatively the KBA questions may be submitted to the user through a different device than used for providing the web service for a non limiting example the user s cellular phone or an email device. In some embodiments the identity validation engine may directly provide the KBA questions to the user and receive responses without using the web service engine as an intermediary.

In the example of the identity validation engine retrieves the responses to the KBA questions from the user if such responses are provided in a timely manner for the credit reporting engine to review. For example the user has a timed window to correctly reply to the questions after which they are graded for accuracy or the validity of his her identity will be denied by the identity validation engine . The window utilizes a chronological module not shown that can configure the response time from a few seconds to a few minutes to avoid the user from looking up the answers to the KBA questions by referencing to other sources such as the actual credit report from which the KBA questions are generated.

In the example of the validation engine will decline to confirm the identity of the user if validation is not completed within an allotted time span such as due to slow response by the user or is denied because the rating grading of the responses to the KBA questions by the credit reporting engine is negative. Consequently the web service engine will be alerted of a potential identity theft and the web service request initiated by the user will be declined. If the rating of the responses to the questions by the user is positive and preferably timely the identity validation engine will notify the wed service engine that the user s identity has been verified.

In the example of the validation engine will allow the user to register securely at the web service engine for the requested web service once the identity of the user is validated. In addition to providing his her personal information and creating his her username as part of the user s profile during the registration the user is asked to create a series of personalized challenge questions PCQs based on his her personal life experiences and provide his her personalized answers to them. Unlike KBAs PCQs are not related to the credit history or profile of the user. Rather PCQs are based on the personal life of the user that only the user him herself knows the answers thus are highly confidential while the user does not need to remember the answers to them. The followings are some non limiting examples of PCQs 

These PCQs can be rotated and randomly chosen to maintain sufficient barriers to identity cloning or phreaking. Use of PCQs as access for validated identities has universal application including but not limited to financial transactions social networking enterprise access to restricted data and pin less password free access to personal accounts online. In addition to offering standard PCQs it is also possible to have user defined PCQs and responses that further add to security. One logical approach is to have wild card PCQs in which a user defined answer is presented and a choice of multiple questions are presented requiring the user to select which is the correct question from those displayed.

In the example of the validation engine will associate the PCQs and their answers rest of the user s profile including his her username provided during registration and save them in the user database or in a local database of the validation engine . Here the answers to the PCQs are unique as they are based on the real events happened in the user s personal life. The next time when the user initiates another request for a web service provided by the web service engine the validated user will be prompted to enter his her username. Instead of being asked for the PIN or password associated with the username the user will be asked one or more of the PCQs randomly picked from the set of PCQs the user created during registration. The web site engine will accept the answers to the randomly picked PCQs by the users and provide the answers to the validation engine . The validation engine will then retrieve answers to the PCQs previously saved in the user database and compare them to the answers currently provided by the user. If the answers to the PCQs match the user s request for the web service will be granted. Otherwise the user s access will be denied just as when the user fails to provide a correct PIN password.

In some embodiments the validation engine may utilize an interactive voice response IVR system for the identity validation process. The user may be required to register his her voice in a database for validation purposes. In some embodiments the user may be required to voice print him herself multiple times. Then the user is required to answer the KBA and or PCQ questions during validation and the validation engine will match the voice with the voice print stored with the user s profile stored in the user database . The user s identity is validated only when a match between the voices is found.

The identity validation engine adds an extra later of user identity management and protection to the web service engine which provides an existing web service by utilizing KBAs for initial user identity validation and PCQs for subsequent password free access by a validated user without prompting the user for PIN or password. Such a combined KBA and PCQ approach can effectively address at least the following four issues for identity management and protection 

In the example of the flowchart starts at block where a request for web service initiated by a user online over a network is accepted by a web service provider. In one embodiment the user is physically present at the merchant s store or facility. The flowchart continues to block where identity of the user is validated based on the information provided by the user for the request such as name address and telephone number. Here the identity validation may be conducted by some third party which may be separate from the web service provider. If the user s identity is validated the flowchart continues to block where the validated user is allowed to access the web service to securely register with the web service provider and to create a set of PCQs and corresponding answers for future access. The flowchart continues to block where the user is prompted with one or more of the PCQs created by the user instead of PIN password during the user s subsequent request for the web service. The flowchart continues to block where the answers to the PCQs by the user are compared to the answers the user previously created. The flowchart ends block where the user s subsequent request for access to the web service is granted if the answers to the PCQs match. Otherwise the flowchart ends block where the user s subsequent request for access to the web service is denied if the answers to the PCQs do not match. It is understood that the variations described for and elsewhere herein remain unaffected and also apply to flowchart .

One embodiment may be implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor s programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

One embodiment includes a computer program product which is a machine readable medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program one or more computing devices to perform any of the features presented herein. The machine readable medium can include but is not limited to one or more types of disks including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs micro drive and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems execution environments containers and applications.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the claimed subject matter has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. The same functions may be further distributed involve additional parties multiple parties may perform the same role a party may perform multiple roles or functions and or functions may be performed by one entity on behalf of another entity identified herein. An insurance policy issued to an online merchant engine may be issued to the entity owning or operating or on whose behalf the online merchant engine is operated the online merchant engine and the online merchant engine may or may not record information regarding the insurance policy. When a service operates an online merchant engine for multiple merchants the service may be considered the merchant or the usage of the online merchant engine for each of the user merchants may be treated as a separate online merchant engine. A risk management engine may be part of the online merchant engine or a separate component perhaps operated by the entity that operates the third party identity validation engine. Particularly while the concept interface is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent software concepts such as class method type module component bean module object model process thread application programming interface networking interface and other suitable concepts. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best describe the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated. Credit cards here include debit cards stored value cards smart cards or any other card or device that identifies an user or group of users to enable that user or group of users to make purchases of goods or services obtain cash or cash equivalents or transfer money. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

While the apparatus and method have been described in terms of what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the disclosure need not be limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the claims the scope of which should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar structures. The present disclosure includes any and all embodiments of the following claims.

