---

title: Methods and systems for wiring systems analysis and verification
abstract: A method for visually verifying an implementation of a design is described. The method includes integrating logical design data, physical design data, and physical implementation data into a common data format and graphically displaying the commonly formatted data to provide a visualization of the design, the visualization including a spatial context component associated with the physical implementation data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949751&OS=08949751&RS=08949751
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08949751
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081209
---
The field of the invention relates generally to the manufacturing of systems with complex wiring systems and more specifically to methods and systems for wiring systems analysis and verification.

Certain traditional manufacturing enterprises are moving their business model to that of a large scale systems integrator. As such there is a need for systems and methods that verify wiring system designs developed by suppliers. As an example aircraft wiring systems present unique challenges in terms of scale spatial requirements and the number of interfaces. For a typical aircraft the wiring system design definition is scattered across multiple product data managers PDMs .

One problem with such an arrangement is that system designers need to be able to visualize both three dimensional geometric data and any related non geometric data in order to verify and validate wiring systems configurations.

Currently this problem is addressed using physical mockups which is sometimes referred to as an iron horse prototype construction and paper engineering requirements and or drawings. These solutions are labor intensive and consume many man hours that could be better applied elsewhere.

In one aspect a method for visually verifying an implementation of a design is provided. The method includes integrating logical design data physical design data and physical implementation data into a common data format and graphically displaying the commonly formatted data to provide a visualization of the design the visualization including a spatial context component associated with the physical implementation data.

In another aspect a computer is provided that is programmed to receive physical implementation data physical design data and logical design data associated with a product design from a plurality of sources perform a spatial analysis on the physical implementation data physical design data and logical design data and generate a visualization of the spatial analysis for display on a user interface.

In still another aspect a system is provided that is configured for visualization of design implementations. The system includes a computer comprising a user interface and a logical data storage area communicatively coupled to the computer. The computer is configured to display at the user interface a listing of the logical designs stored within the logical data storage area collect from the logical storage area physical implementation data physical design data and logical design data associated with a logical design selected by a user via the user interface display at the user interface the physical implementation data and physical design data associated with the selected logical design and display at the user interface the logical design data associated with the selected logical design along with any logical design data associated with the physical implementation data.

The embodiments described herein which are sometimes referred to as a systems analysis and visualization SAV tool provides a method of integrating three dimensional geometric physical design information together with its related non geometric logical design information to verify and validate wiring systems design. One example application is the verification and validation of an aircraft wiring system design. It is a challenge to understand the different representations of a systems design starting from the various requirements through their physical implementation. As described further herein it is possible to compare attribute data of the various designs i.e. logical design data physical design data and physical implementation data but a better representation of these designs is provided by graphically representing some of the first views of the logical design relative to how they are implemented in a physical design.

The life cycle of a design starts with functional requirements progresses to logical design requirements and eventually results in a physical design. One way to envision these requirements is to consider the logical design as a schematic and the physical design as a three dimensional implementation of the schematic and may include data associated with a wire system function layout location and implementation. It is important for entities developing designs of such complexity to verify that the logical design and the physical design are in sync. However such verification is difficult if the various design data are in separate places. The SAV tool brings the data for the various designs together and allows a user to verify that for example the two designs mentioned above are in sync.

The following is one example. In a logical design the individual wires are inside a wire harness. The SAV tool is operable to trace each individual wire to make sure that the wire harness routing is complete. The SAV tool then verifies the contents of the physical design that is verifies physical placement of the individual wires of the wiring harness to ensure that any physical separation requirements between individual wires are met as well as to verify that the physical confines of the area the wires are to be placed provide the real estate needed to place that portion of the wiring harness. With reference to physical separation requirements certain signals may need to be redundant and therefore routed on both the left and right side of an airplane.

The SAV tool provides an ability to compare designs that are managed in different tools from different vendors. Each one of these vendor utilized tools may have a different data model. The data may be stored differently in each of the tools. The data representations may be authored in unique tools. The SAV tool brings those different data representations that were authored uniquely often in a proprietary system together to show what those relationships are. In summary the SAV tool integrates multiple and sometimes unique data models together to provide an integrated view of a design.

More specifically the systems and methods embodied in the SAV utilize an application that integrates systems logical design data two dimensional schematic and three dimensional geometric data to allow visualization of the related data in a spatial context. The embodiments enhance systems and wire integration logical data with three dimensional physical design information. Systems and wire integration logical data are graphically displayed in a single software tool. In at least one embodiment common data in the wiring system s logical data and physical data are combined to allow a user to visualize systems signal routing wire segment routing and highlighting a wire harness assembly within one or many wire harness installations. Many other applications are contemplated even though the following descriptions utilize aircraft wiring systems as the illustrative example. As such the descriptions should be considered as examples only and not limiting in any respect.

Now referring more particularly to the drawings embodiments of the disclosure may be described in the context of aircraft manufacturing and service method as shown in and an aircraft as shown in . During pre production aircraft manufacturing and service method may include specification and design of aircraft and material procurement .

During production component and subassembly manufacturing and system integration of aircraft takes place. Thereafter aircraft may go through certification and delivery in order to be placed in service . While in service by a customer aircraft is scheduled for routine maintenance and service which may also include modification reconfiguration refurbishment and so on .

Each of the processes of aircraft manufacturing and service method may be performed or carried out by a system integrator a third party and or an operator e.g. a customer . For the purposes of this description a system integrator may include without limitation any number of aircraft manufacturers and major system subcontractors a third party may include for example without limitation any number of venders subcontractors and suppliers and an operator may be an airline leasing company military entity service organization and so on.

As shown in aircraft produced by aircraft manufacturing and service method may include airframe with a plurality of systems and an interior . Examples of systems include one or more of propulsion system electrical system hydraulic system and environmental system . Any number of other systems may be included in this example. Although an aerospace example is shown the principles of the disclosure may be applied to other industries such as the automotive industry.

Apparatus and methods embodied herein may be employed during any one or more of the stages of aircraft manufacturing and service method . For example without limitation components or subassemblies corresponding to component and subassembly manufacturing may be fabricated or manufactured in a manner similar to components or subassemblies produced while aircraft is in service.

Also one or more apparatus embodiments method embodiments or a combination thereof may be utilized during component and subassembly manufacturing and system integration for example without limitation by substantially expediting assembly of or reducing the cost of aircraft . Similarly one or more of apparatus embodiments method embodiments or a combination thereof may be utilized while aircraft is in service for example without limitation to maintenance and service may be used during system integration and or maintenance and service to determine whether parts may be connected and or mated to each other.

The description of the different advantageous embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further different advantageous embodiments may provide different advantages as compared to other advantageous embodiments. The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Turning now to a diagram of a data processing system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Specifically data processing system is one embodiment of a computer system upon which the SAV tool mentioned above can be run. In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multi processor core depending on the particular implementation. Further processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices. A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information either on a temporary basis and or a permanent basis. Memory in these examples may be for example without limitation a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example without limitation persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example without limitation a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communication links.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example without limitation input output unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard and mouse. Further input output unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer readable media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be in a tangible form such as for example an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . In a tangible form computer readable media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . The tangible form of computer readable media is also referred to as computer recordable storage media. In some instances computer readable media may not be removable.

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system from computer readable media through a communications link to communications unit and or through a connection to input output unit . The communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples. The computer readable media also may take the form of non tangible media such as communications links or wireless transmissions containing the program code.

In some illustrative embodiments program code may be downloaded over a network to persistent storage from another device or data processing system for use within data processing system . For instance program code stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system may be downloaded over a network from the server to data processing system . The data processing system providing program code may be a server computer a client computer or some other device capable of storing and transmitting program code .

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown.

As one example a storage device in data processing system is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory persistent storage and computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally a communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example without limitation memory or a cache such as that found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .

Existing wiring system analysis and verification solutions utilize either physical mockups or integrated solutions based on singular three dimensional design tools. However if the various wiring systems are designed utilizing differing engineering toolsets then the validation of the system must be done manually generally on paper. are illustrations of user interfaces and respectively associated with a systems analysis and visualization SAV tool.

As further described herein the SAV tool integrates wire bundle information detail wire information with a three dimensional visualization of the design information that is generated from the wire bundle information and the detail wire information . In other embodiments two dimensional wiring diagrams and system schematics are utilized by the SAV tool to generate the three dimensional visualizations. Though not shown in embodiments of the SAV tool also may include features such as coloration or highlighting of missing design information and spatial requirement violations. Routing and clearance provisions are also validated by the SAV tool.

In the illustrated embodiment wire bundle information is presented as a tree view of the wiring for the selected wiring bundle. The tree view provides an efficient method to navigate to available wire harness assemblies and installations for subsequent three dimensional visualization.

Detail wire information is a detail view of the wiring bundle components and system connection characteristics. The wiring bundle component detail including wires connections and other bundle components for a selected bundle are provided. Detail wire information also includes detailed information about the connective equipment interfaces.

As the name implies three dimensional visualization is presented as a three dimensional geometric view of the design space. Specifically three dimensional visualization is a display of the physical view of the requested wire harnesses and installations. Three dimensional visualization also provides a two dimensional graphical view of associated logical information including data such as schematics and diagrams graphical depicting the physical model.

The process begins by collecting and displaying a list of all HEIs as gathered from the logical data store. A user then selects one of the HEIs for display. The SAV tool then begins the process of collecting physical and logical data for the selected HEI which is initiated by requesting via an authorization operation logical data from a logical data storage area . These logical data stores hold information about HEIs and what configurations of airplanes for example to which these HEIs belong. Such configurations include individual wires equipment and other logical data about the HEI. In at least one embodiment such linking is performed via part numbers and revisions of the HEI. Once authorization to access and view the data has been confirmed the logical data is returned and displayed.

The next step is to determine which Wire Harness Assembly WHA to display. As utilized herein an HEI is a logical construct only. It has no actual physical presence. In contrast the WHA is the three dimensional geometry that represents the HEI logical construct. In other words the HEI represents what is designed and the WHA represents what is manufactured. Each approved and released HEI within the logical data store has a WHA associated with it. After any authorization operations this is the WHA that is selected for display . Again once authorization to access and view the data has been confirmed the physical data is returned and displayed for example as a three dimensional display.

Additional logical data about the particular WHA may also be requested . Once authorization to access and view the additional WHA logical data has been confirmed any additional logical data is returned from the logical data store . Some logical data is associated directly with the WHA and not the HEI. Therefore any additional logical data corresponding to the selected WHA is requested . The data may come from the logical data store or it may be associated and encapsulated within the 3D model itself as metadata. The data may contain items such as wire lengths and or material types. Once all of this logical data is collected it can be displayed alongside the physical data display . In one embodiment the physical WHA data and the additional logical data are combined in a single display.

Now referring to referred to herein as computer screen a sub window indicates that logical data for a selected HEI is being gathered. is a computer screen that illustrates the gathered logical data for the selected HEI. As mentioned above each HEI is associated with a WHA. As such a three dimensional WHA is included within computer screen . User selectable tabs are provided so that the user can select the various logical data associated with the HEI WHA. Other logical data from the three dimensional WHA can be displayed by the user through selection of user selectable tab .

The logical wiring data is operable to provide one or all of wire harness installation data wire harness assembly data and wire harness provision data to the SAV tool in response to a query . The physical implementation data database provides three dimensional geometric data to application programming interfaces which are utilized by the SAV tool . Three dimensional and two dimensional application programming interfaces APIs including shared libraries are utilized in conjunction with the SAV tool in one embodiment to provide three dimensional visualizations and three dimensional data queries .

The SAV tool as shown in provides both logical and physical spatial analysis parameter calculations design verification and difference analysis with respect to a specific design as received from one or both of the physical implementation data database and the logical wiring data .

In one specific example the three dimensional geometry for the design is translated out of CATIA. The extractions from that three dimensional geometry include inferences about the geometric types make explicit design decisions or extraction decisions based on physical characteristics that are cast within the design. These extractions inferences and design decision pieces are brought together within the SAV tool to make sure that there is a one to one synchronization between the logical information and the physical information. The SAV tool includes routines that make validating and comparison within the SAV tool feasible for that particular implementation.

The above described embodiments with regard to the integration of various design data is applicable to designs other than wiring designs and may be utilized to verify and validate for example structural compounds mechanical components component repair validating the repair coincides with original requirements for the repair to name but a few.

Existing wiring system analysis and verification solutions utilize either physical mockups or integrated solutions based on singular three dimensional design tools. However if the various wiring systems are designed utilizing differing engineering toolsets then the validation of the system must be done manually generally on paper. The above described embodiments integrate the wiring system data from both a logical design system and a physical design system. This integration is an improvement over currently utilized methods because quality is significantly improved costs are lowered and man hours are saved. As described the embodiments provide a three dimensional visualization capability to wiring system logical data which up to this point did not exist.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

