---

title: Ferroelectric memory devices with partitioned platelines
abstract: One embodiment relates to a ferroelectric memory device. The ferroelectric memory device includes a segment of contiguous ferroelectric memory cells arranged in rows and columns. A row of ferroelectric memory cells includes a common wordline that allows access to the memory cells of the row and also includes at least two platelines associated with the row. At least one of the at least two platelines is associated with adjacent columns of ferroelectric memory cells within the row. The row of ferroelectric memory cells includes another word line which is not associated with the at least two platelines. Other methods and systems are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07920404&OS=07920404&RS=07920404
owner: Texas Instruments Incorporated
number: 07920404
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080214
---
This application claims priority to Ser. No. 61 017 840 filed Dec. 31 2007 which is entitled Ferroelectric Memory Devices With Partitioned Platelines. 

The present invention relates generally to semiconductor memory devices and more particularly to improved methods and systems for ferroelectric memory devices.

Semiconductor memory devices store data and or program code in personal computer systems embedded processor based systems video image processing circuits communications devices and the like. A ferroelectric memory device is one type of semiconductor memory device.

Ferroelectric memory devices provide non volatile data storage by employing ferroelectric capacitors that are constructed using ferroelectric dielectric material that may be polarized in one direction or another in order to store a binary value. The ferroelectric effect allows for the retention of a stable polarization in the absence of an applied electric field due to the alignment of internal dipoles within perovskite crystals in the ferroelectric material. This alignment may be selectively achieved by application of an electric field in a first direction that exceeds a coercive field of the material. Conversely reversal of the applied field reverses the internal dipoles wherein the response of the polarization of a ferroelectric capacitor to the applied voltage may be plotted as a hysteresis curve.

Given the technological complexity of ferroelectric memory devices these products require significant capital expenditures in order to be successfully developed and delivered to the marketplace. Thus developers rely on strong intellectual property rights in this arena to allow them to rationalize and protect the huge capital expenses involved.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of one or more aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention and is neither intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention nor to delineate the scope thereof. Rather the primary purpose of the summary is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One embodiment relates to a ferroelectric memory device. The ferroelectric memory device includes a segment of contiguous ferroelectric memory cells arranged in rows and columns. A row of ferroelectric memory cells includes a common wordline that allows access to the memory cells of the row and also includes at least two platelines associated with the row. At least one of the at least two platelines is associated with adjacent columns of ferroelectric memory cells within the row. Other methods and systems are also disclosed.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and implementations of the invention. These are indicative of only a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed.

One or more implementations of the present invention will now be described with reference to the attached drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. Although some embodiments of the invention are described below with reference to a four mega bit 4 Mb ferroelectric memory device it will be appreciated that the invention could extend to any ferroelectric memory device regardless of size. For example a ferroelectric memory device could be much smaller e.g. a 2 bit device with two ferroelectric memory cells or could be much larger e.g. a terabit device with 10ferroelectric memory cells where all such variations are contemplated as falling within the scope of the invention. Further to the extent that a memory array as discussed herein is subdivided into sections segments plateline groups and the like it will be appreciated that the size of these subdivisions could vary depending on design constraints.

Ferroelectric memory cells in accordance with the invention can be organized in single transistor single capacitor 1T1C or two transistor two capacitor 2T2C configurations. illustrates an exemplary 1T1C ferroelectric memory cell that includes a single ferroelectric capacitor and an access transistor . The access transistor serves to connect the cell capacitor between a bitline BL and a plateline PL.

During a typical write operation to Row a voltage Vis applied to wordline WL wherein the Vis typically greater than or equal to a supply voltage VDD plus a threshold voltage of the access transistors thereby turning on the access transistors within Row and coupling the bitlines BL BL to the ferroelectric capacitors in the accessed cells. Suitable voltages are then applied to the bitlines BL BL where the voltage on each bitline is representative of a data value to be written to the memory cell attached to that bitline. While the wordline WL and bitlines are properly biased the plateline PL is pulsed high polarizing the ferroelectric dielectric material and thereby storing one of at least two data states in each of the accessed memory cells.

During a typical read operation of Row voltage Vis again applied to wordline WL to turn on the access transistors and couple the bitlines BL BL to the ferroelectric capacitors of the accessed cells . The plateline PL is then pulsed high causing the ferroelectric capacitors to discharge charge through the access transistors to the bitlines BL BL thereby causing the bitline voltages BL BL to rise. The amount by which the bitline voltages rise depends upon the state of the ferroelectric capacitors being accessed. To determine whether the state of the accessed ferroelectric capacitors is a 1 or a 0 one differential input terminal of each sense amp is coupled to a memory cell s bitline e.g. bitline BL and the other differential input of each sense amp is coupled to a reference voltage e.g. reference bitline BL in this example . Depending upon whether the memory cell s bitline e.g. bitline BL is high or low relative to the reference voltage e.g. bitline BL each sense amp returns a 1 or a 0 .

As the inventors have appreciated however such a memory device is less than ideal for several reasons. For example consider the scenario where a user wants to write data to less than a full row of memory cells. For example in the user may want to write only 8 bits of data into Row e.g. cells Cthrough C . To accomplish this write operation wordline WL will be asserted thereby accessing all 64 memory cells Row . While the wordline WL is asserted the bitline pairs BL BL through BL BL will be suitably biased and the plateline PL for the entire row will be pulsed. However because the wordline WL and plateline PL are coupled to all of the cells in the row data will be effectively written to all 64 cells and not just cells Cthrough C . Therefore to successfully write a partial word the entire row will first have to be read so the existing data can be determined. Then the new data values can be presented on the bitlines BL BL through BL BL while the previous data values unchanged are re presented on bitlines BL BL through BL BL . While this combination of new and previous data values are presented on the bitlines with the wordline asserted the plateline can be pulsed thereby writing the data values into the cells.

Although this methodology is effective it is inefficient because it results in excess power dissipation. The excess power dissipation occurs because data is first read from the entire row and then data is written to all of the cells of the row including some data that was previously present in the row . Because a user wants to write data to only a partial row and not a full row this wastes power. Thus in memory devices used in low power applications such as a portable electronic device or RFID it would be advantageous to minimize the amount of excess power dissipation.

To remedy these and other shortcomings the inventors have fashioned advantageous ferroelectric memory devices. As shown in one embodiment of such a ferroelectric memory device is a 4 Mb ferroelectric memory device that includes a control system and memory array . Although is illustrated and discussed with reference to a 4 Mb ferroelectric memory device for purposes of simplicity and clarity the invention could extend to any ferroelectric memory device regardless of size.

The memory array includes at least 2ferroelectric memory cells i.e. four megabits and often some dummy ferroelectric memory cells in addition thereto. The ferroelectric memory cells are arranged in eight 512 Kb memory sections where each memory section is subdivided into sixteen segments of 32 Kb each. For example in the lower right hand corner of the array one can see the sixteenth segment within the eighth section labeled as 32K Segment 8 16. Often plateline drivers and or other peripheral circuitry such as power conduits are situated between adjacent segments. Thus the memory cells within each segment are contiguous but due to the plateline drivers and or other peripheral circuitry the memory cells between segments may be non contiguous. Such a layout allows for efficient routing and power distribution.

In various embodiments the segments may also include dummy ferroelectric memory cells therein. For example in a typical embodiment columns of memory cells at the edges of the segment may be dummy memory cells. These dummy memory cells help to minimize variations between active memory cells located at the center and edges of the array. Typically dummy cells are substantially identical to the active cells. However some functionality and layout for these cells may be modified to suit specific requirements.

The control system is coupled to the memory array and provides suitable biasing voltages to write and read data to and from individual ferroelectric memory cells. More specifically the control system includes an data path and a control circuit where the control circuit generates wordline bitline and plateline signals according to decoded address information and or signals for read restore and write operations. These signals could include for example chip enable CE write enable WE output enable OE upper byte enable UB lower byte enable LB address and data as shown. The I O data path includes sense amps for reading and writing data values to the individual memory cells. Often these sense amps are respectively associated with columns of memory cells such as previously shown in .

In ferroelectric memory devices both PL and WL have to be activated to access a cell. In the prior art a common plate line architecture where a PL is common to several rows of WL s is often used to minimize area associated with the PL drivers.

In the present invention within the segment multiple plategroups are associated with each column and multiple plategroups are associated with each row. In the illustrated embodiment for example the memory cells are partitioned into sixty four plate groups e.g. PLGRP PLGRP . . . PLGRP although they could also be partitioned into other numbers of plategroups depending on design considerations. Notably along a given wordline there are multiple independently assertable plategroups each of which can bias less than the entire wordline of memory cells.

For example the first row of memory cells along wordline WL is associated with four plategroups PLGRP PLGRP PLGRP PLGRP each of which is associated with a unique set of memory cells. More specifically a first set of cells along WL is driven by a plateline driver PLGRP DRV and a second set of cells along WL is driven by a plateline driver PLGRP DRV. Additional sets of cells e.g. additional set along WL could also be driven by their respective plateline drivers. Due to these partitioned platelines along each wordline this segment advantageously allows a user to write to a partial row of memory cells along a given wordline.

The second row of memory cells along WL is also partitioned into several plateline groups. For example a third set of cells shares a plateline with the first set of cells and thus has a plateline driven by plateline driver PLGRP DRV. A fourth set of cells shares a plateline with the second set of cells and has a plateline driven by plateline driver PLGRP DRV.

Additional plategroups could also be tiled together in this manner. Thus along WL a fifth set of cells associated with a third plategroup PLGRP is driven by an independent plategroup driver. Similarly a sixth set of cells is associated with a fourth plategroup PLGRP and is driven by an independent plategroup driver.

The illustrated embodiment has been selected because it provides a good balance between low power consumption and relatively limited area. Thus although platelines could be partitioned into larger or smaller sets of memory cells associating a row of cells that spans 64 columns with 4 sets of cells is beneficial.

Referring now to one can see some details of how the control circuit can work in conjunction with the partitioned platelines to reduce power consumption from what has previously been achievable. As shown the control circuit includes a set of plateline drivers that is associated with each segment . Within each set of plateline drivers an individual plateline driver provides a plateline voltage signal to an individual plategroup within a predetermined segment . For example segment 32K Segment 1 is associated with the set of plateline drivers SEG 1 PL DRIVERS which consists of sixty four individual plateline drivers PL DRV PL DRV . . . PL DRV . By briefly cross referencing one can see that plateline driver PL DRV provides a plateline voltage signal to the plategroup PLGRP . The other plateline drivers are similarly associated with individual plategroups. Wordline drivers and bitline drivers may also be included in the control circuit as shown.

Typically within a set of plateline drivers only one individual plateline driver associated with a row of memory cells is asserted at a time. This may facilitate reduced power consumption. However in some control circuits the more than one individual plateline driver may be asserted simultaneously. For example two plateline drivers associated with different rows could be asserted simultaneously. Also if a user desired to write to two partial words along a given row two plateline drivers associated with the given row could be asserted.

Due to the partitioned platelines a segment and its associated set of plateline drivers advantageously allow a user to write to a partial row of cells with lower power dissipation than previously achievable. For example in a user can write to a partial word e.g. the first sixteen bits of WL by asserting the wordline WL via the segment wordline driver presenting suitable biases on BL BL through BL BL with the associated bitline drivers and then pulsing PLGRP while the other plategroups associated with WL are not pulsed . Although WL accesses all cells in along wordline WL data will be written only to the accessed cells coupled to PLGRP due to the partitioned platelines. Accordingly this segment may limit the power dissipation from what has previously been achievable. For example the inventors have used SPICE modeling to estimate that power consumption could be reduced by approximately 43 compared to prior solutions although these power savings may vary as a function of the types of accesses carried out and many other variables.

When the platelines are partitioned as described above sense amps respectively associated with columns of the segment could also be partitioned. In particular the sense amp control signals could be partitioned so that all sense amps in columns associated with a set of memory cells e.g. set set receive common sense amp control signals. These common sense amp control signals could be independent of sense amp control signals in columns associated with another set of memory cells.

In one embodiment the following sense amp control signals could be partitioned a sense amp power signal SAPWR a sense amp pre charge signal SAPRC a sense amp input activation signal SAINP a sense amp write back signal SAWB a bitline restore or pull up BLRESTORE and a sense amp read write between sense amp and local I O line signal SARDWRT . In this embodiment the following sense amp controls signals could be common to all sense amps i.e. be un partitioned a bit line pre charge signal BLPRC and a sense amp pull down signal SAPDN . Thus the sense amp control signals could also partitioned based on functionality power and design complexity considerations. Partitioning the sense amp control signals reduces the load capacitances that the sense amp control signals drive thereby saving power. However partitioning also increases the gate count for the control logic which could increase the power as well as add to the area and complexity for the control logic.

Now that some embodiments of a ferroelectric memory device in accordance with some aspects of the invention have been set forth several examples of methods for manufacturing these and other ferroelectric memory devices are now discussed with reference to . shows a somewhat general method while show a more detailed method with reference to a series of layout and cross sectional views. In these methods a segment of contiguous ferroelectric memory cells is formed where platelines are partitioned so that multiple plategroups are associated with a given wordline of the segment. While the methods are illustrated and described below as a series of acts or events the present invention is not limited by the illustrated ordering of such acts or events. For example some acts may occur multiple times and or in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more aspects of the present invention. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts or phases. Additionally while the discussion herein is made with reference to a ferroelectric memory device it is to be appreciated that one or more aspects of the present invention may have application to different types of memories and or to other structures or circuits not illustrated or described herein.

Referring now to one can see the somewhat general method for manufacturing a segment of contiguous ferroelectric memory cells. In block active regions are formed within a semiconductor body. In block gate electrodes such as polysilicon gate electrodes and which correspond to wordlines are formed over the semiconductor body. In block a dielectric is formed over the gate electrode and contacts are formed through the dielectric to the active regions. In block a ferroelectric dielectric material is formed and patterned. In block via s are formed through a dielectric layer overlying the ferroelectric dielectric layer. In a metal layer is formed and patterned to form partitioned platelines. In via s are formed through the metal layer. In a metal layer is formed and pattern to form bitlines. In upper level vias are formed. In block an upper metal layer is formed and patterned to form wordlines and in block an upper level metal layer is used to form connections between the platelines in the array and the platelines drivers Referring now to one can see a more detailed method for manufacturing a segment of contiguous ferroelectric memory cells which method is merely one example of how FIG. s method could be implemented. These figures show top layout views A A A and cross sectional views B B B as indicated. Some layers may not be shown in all of the figures for purposes of clarity and readability. For example the top layout views do not explicitly show a gate oxide layer but the cross sectional views do show the gate oxide layer.

Referring to one can see an illustrated segment of forty memory cells e.g. memory cell that are arranged in four rows and ten columns. Because the cells are directly adjacent to one another shows one example of memory cells that are contiguous. Four polysilicon wordlines allow access to cells in every column. For purposes of illustration the left most and right most columns column and column in each row may be considered dummy cells or dummy columns.

When are viewed together one can see that each memory cell includes an active region formed within a semiconductor body . The semiconductor body could comprise bulk silicon gallium arsenide semiconductor on insulator e.g silicon on insulator or any other semiconductor body. The active regions are often relatively lightly doped in the channel region under the gate and highly doped in source and drain regions such as n or p regions and are often implanted via an ion implanter although they could be formed in other ways. Typically the channel doped region is formed before the gate formation and source and drain regions are formed after the gate formation. To form the wordline a thin gate oxide is formed over the active region after which a layer of polysilicon is formed. Photoresist or some other mask is typically patterned over the polysilicon and an etch is then performed to form the wordline gate structure . A dielectric is then formed over the wordline and semiconductor body and contacts are formed therein.

As shown in a ferroelectric dielectric material is then formed over the structure. A mask is then patterned over the ferroelectric dielectric material and the ferroelectric dielectric material is patterned to form ferroelectric capacitor structures within each cell. Another dielectric layer is formed over the ferroelectric capacitor structures and via s are formed therein where some via s are coupled to the top surface of the ferroelectric capacitor structures and other via s are coupled to the top surface of contacts .

As shown in a first metal layer is then formed over the structure. A mask is then patterned over the first metal layer and the first metal layer is patterned to form platelines and bitline landing pads . As shown in within a given row of memory cells there are multiple platelines extending across the segment. Along each row in the illustrated embodiment the platelines are partitioned into four sets of cells. A first set of cells or plate group in Rows are associated with Columns and as indicated by plategroup . The second set of cells is associated with columns and as indicated by plategroup . Additional sets of cells are associated with columns and and with columns and respectively. To add more rows to the plategroups vertical members extend across a cell boundary and could connect to another row of cells on the top.

As shown in after another dielectric layer has been formed over the first metal layer and via s have formed in the dielectric layer a second metal layer can be formed. This second metal layer can then be patterned to form bitlines that are electrically coupled to a portion of the active region .

The PL drivers not shown for the above 4 sets of cells associated with 4 plategroups are located on the left of the segment near the column and the connections from the PL drivers to the individual plategroups can made in one or more higher level metal layers. For example they could be made in 3 4and or 5layer of metals and connect to metal plategroups inside the array through Via s and Metal landing pad placed in between bitlines. This connection need only be made at one place per plategroup. The vertical metal connections in could provide the connection for all the cells in a plate group.

Besides PL connections from the drivers to the cells inside array higher metal levels may also be used for metal wordlines which are coupled to the poly wordlines and I O data path lines.

In the region between the segments poly wordlines can also be strapped with the metal lines to reduce the overall resistance for the long wordlines. The region could also be used to tie the substrate to the Vss ground metal line from the top.

Although some embodiments have been described and illustrated herein with respect to a 1T1C memory cell configuration it will be appreciated that the invention is equally applicable to 2T2C memory cell configurations. For example in some 2T2C memory cell configurations could be modified so that there are only two rows instead of the four rows currently shown .

While the invention has been illustrated and described with respect to one or more implementations alterations and or modifications may be made to the illustrated examples without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components or structures assemblies devices circuits systems etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component or structure which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

