---

title: Aircraft maintenance data retrieval for portable devices
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments, a system for facilitating transfer of data and information over a network includes a database component, a communication component adapted to communicate with a user via a portable communication device over the network, and a processing component adapted to receive a request for data and information from the user via the portable communication device over the network and process the request by accessing one or more documents from the database component related to at least one component of a machine specified by the user passed with the request. The communication component transfers the one or more documents from the database component to the portable communication device for viewing by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856134&OS=08856134&RS=08856134
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08856134
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080509
---
This application is related to Ser. No. 12 118 055 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SERVICE BULLETIN DATA EXCHANGE filed May 9 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to data retrieval and more particularly to maintenance data retrieval via ultra portable devices.

In the aviation industry airline companies are provided with advisory service bulletins for facilitating maintenance repair and service schedules of aircraft. Some of the advisory service bulletins are provided by aircraft manufacturers based on feedback from airline service personnel and are typically prepared for specific aircraft owned by a specific airline company in response to aviation safety standards.

In general there lacks an efficient approach for reporting and reviewing information regarding the status of aircraft e.g. damage and or malfunction to enable quick dispatch of aircraft repair service and or maintenance. Some common approaches involve manually typed information or verbally communicated information which tends to be cumbersome and time consuming to appropriately identify locate and provide response. These types of communication approaches do not typically present a technician with quick access to current service procedures or relevant historical information related to specific aircraft.

As a result there is a need for an improved system and method for providing data and information on aircraft for improved response to field service personnel for maintenance service and repair decision making.

Systems and methods disclosed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments provide interactive communication between a user and a network repository server to access appropriate service information about specific aircraft via a portable communication device e.g. a cell phone or personal digital assistant PDA . The systems and methods disclosed herein enables entry and transmittal of aircraft data and information on incidence of damage and or malfunction and on actions of advisory service bulletins to assist a human operator for improved fleet safety management decisions.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a system for facilitating transfer of data and information over a network includes a database component a communication component adapted to communicate with a user via a portable communication device over the network and a processing component adapted to receive a request for data and information from the user via the portable communication device over the network and process the request by accessing one or more documents from the database component related to at least one component of a machine specified by the user passed with the request. The communication component transfers the one or more documents from the database component to the portable communication device for viewing by the user.

In various implementations the portable communication device comprises a display component that displays the one or more documents a portable database component for storage of the one or more documents and information related to the machine or at least a component of the machine and a user input component that receives input from the user including data and information related to the one or more documents.

In one embodiment the machine comprises an airplane and the one or more documents comprise at least one of a service bulletin and a service manual related to the airplane. The one or more documents stored in the portable database component of the portable communication device provides the user with guided interactive inspection of the machine or at least a component of the machine by viewing topics in the one or more documents that are selectively searchable based on input by the user. The topics are selectively searchable by the user input which may include at least one of a part number a part description and a keyword. The user input may be stored in the portable database component and transferred to the system for storage in the database component. The user input includes user answers to questions and one or more recorded results to the questions are stored in the portable database component and transferred to the system for storage in the database component.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure a method for facilitating transfer of data and information over a network includes communicating with a user via a portable communication device over the network receiving a request for data and information from the user via the portable communication device over the network processing the request by accessing one or more documents from a database component related to at least one component of a machine specified by the user passed with the request and transferring the one or more documents from the database component to the portable communication device for viewing by the user.

The scope of the disclosure is defined by the claims which are incorporated into this section by reference. A more complete understanding of embodiments will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of one or more embodiments. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings that will first be described briefly.

Embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures.

In accordance with one or more embodiments systems and methods disclosed herein provide for directing interactive communication between a user and a server having a service bulletin repository and or database for appropriate service information responses and to transmit service entries referring to machinery e.g. an airplane to a service provider e.g. a centralized service operation system via a portable communication device e.g. a cell phone or PDA . In accordance with one or more embodiments systems and methods disclosed herein enable convenient entry and transmittal of data and information on the status of machinery e.g. incidence of certain types of damage and or malfunctions and on service bulletin actions to assist the user e.g. field service personnel with entry of status data and information and with making maintenance decisions.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in one embodiment the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. In various other embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks adapted to communicate with a wireless telecommunications network.

The user device in various embodiments comprises a mobile communication device such as a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA or various other generally known types of mobile computing devices. The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network .

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented as operating system registry entries identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include attributes related to the user such as security information e.g. user name password photograph image biometric id address phone number etc. . In various implementations the user identifier may be passed with a user service request to the server device and the user identifier may be used by the server device to provide the user with access to service data and information stored by the server device in a manner as described herein.

The user device in one embodiment includes a service application that may be used by the user to access and or browse service data and information made available to the user by the server device over the network . For example the service application may be implemented as a network browser to display service data and information e.g. documents and or files related to an advisory service bulletin a service manual or service instructions provided by the server device over the network .

In one implementation the service application processes relevant service data and information to provide an interactive process to guide the user through service and maintenance activities. The service application may generate one or more records of the responses to tests recordings evaluations and or assessments made by the user and stores the one or more records in a local memory component such as database .

In one implementation the service application provide portable access to large information data sets necessary to operate and maintain machinery such as a commercial airplane. The service application indexes and stores one or more complete manual sets necessary to maintain machinery. The manual data sets may comprise one to several million pages in printed document format. As described in greater detail herein service manual data sets may be retrieved from the server device stored locally on the user device and displayed for viewing by the user .

In one implementation the service application comprises interactive software that is downloadable to the user device . The user device is configured to display service data and information tailored to particular machinery as designated by the user via entry of a registry number of the particular machinery. Any user inputted data and information e.g. damage findings for an airplane includes scribe line damage may be categorized and stored in the user device . The user inputted data and information may be transmitted to the server device via the network and associated with the registry number of the machinery for storage in a database of the server device . This data and information may be associated with an appropriate work task assigned to the particular machinery. In various implementations the information types may be multimedia in scope e.g. single digit T9 photo formatted email etc. . The resulting data and findings may be transmitted to one or more other server devices for long term activity performance recording and activity audit.

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more network interface applications which may be used by the user to display via a display component e.g. LCD and view tasks in response to operations selected by the user . For example the network application may display a graphical user interface GUI in connection with the service application for viewing of service tasks.

The user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide additional features available to the user . For example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

The user device in one embodiment may include one or more databases adapted to store and archive data and information including data and information from maintenance documents e.g. advisory service bulletins . In various embodiments the one or more databases may comprise a removable memory component such as a smart card and or an internal memory component such as a ROM component. One or more sets of maintenance documents e.g. AMM Part 1 2 Airplane Maintenance Manual Part 1 Systems Description Manual and Part 2 Maintenance Practices and Procedures IPC Illustrated Parts Catalog FIM Fault Isolation Manual Task Cards Subset of AMM for use by Mechanic or Planner MPD Maintenance Planning Document SRM Structural Repair Manual WDM Wiring Diagram Manual SSM Systems Schematic Manual CMM Component Maintenance Manual Engineering Blueprints REDARS Parts Lists and REDARS Drawings etc. for machinery such as an airplane may be downloaded and stored on the user device in database which may comprise various types of memory components such as an SD SD micro memory card. In one aspect the downloaded maintenance documents may be indexed in various ways using a unique indexer for optimization of fault information based retrieval. In various implementations the indexer may use noun phrase collocation and simplified English specific phrases and or grammar for indexing and organization.

The server device in one embodiment may comprise a network server adapted to operate as an interactive data storage facility and communicate with the user device via the network by transmitting and receiving service data and information over the network . The server device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one implementation the server device may be referred to as a service bulletin repository for recording service data and information e.g. documents and or files related to advisory service bulletins and service manuals sent to and received from the user device . The server device is configured to extract format and provide relevant service data and information for transmission to and reception from the service application of the user device .

The server device in one embodiment may include one or more server identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries identifiers associated with hardware of the server device or various other appropriate identifiers that identify the server device . The server identifier may include attributes related to a company or organization that provides the server device and or an administrator or operator of the server device . The attributes may be implemented as security information e.g. a company name address or phone number or operator name password photograph image or biometric id. . In various implementations the server identifier may be passed with a response to a user request in a manner as described herein.

The server device in one embodiment may include a processing application a network interface application a data conversion application and one or more databases . The network interface application in one embodiment may comprise a network communication device module and or application that allows the server device to communicate with the user device via the network to transmit and receive service data and information.

The data conversion application in one embodiment may comprise a data conversion mechanism or module that allows translation of part identification numbers into user readable information that may reference maintenance service and repair procedures from locally stored documents and or files related to advisory service bulletins and or service manuals. In one implementation the user may input into the user device a part number from a particular part of the machinery such as airplane and access specific topics in the service manual for specific information related to maintenance service and or repair procedures for that specific part. This allows the user to quickly identify and research the particular part directly in data and information stored locally on the user device such as a cell phone.

The database in one embodiment comprises one or more databases adapted to store and archive data and information including data and information from maintenance documents e.g. advisory service bulletins and or service manuals . One or more sets of maintenance documents e.g. AMM Part 1 2 IPC FIM Task Cards MPD SRM WDM SSM REDARS drawings CMM s REDARS Parts Lists etc. for machinery such as an airplane may be downloaded and stored on the user device in database which may comprise various types of memory components such as a hard drive. The maintenance documents may be indexed in various ways using a unique indexer for optimization of fault information based retrieval. In various implementations the indexer may use noun phrase collocation and simplified English specific phrases and or grammar for indexing and organization.

In one implementation the user inputs service request data and information to the user device block . The user inputs the service request to the user device via keypad keyboard input voice recognition or a graphical interface. In various examples the user may input at least one of an ATA number a part number a task number an LRU name a wire bundle number e.g. using aerospace acronyms including RefDes location information EICAS message. In various other examples the user may input at least one of an observed fault and or general condition information in common English language text such as the airplane flew into volcanic ash or a bird flew into the engine or I had a bird strike. 

The service application processes the user input to generate one or more possible search terms block . For example the service application may process the user request and search one or more maintenance document datasets stored locally in the database of the user device using custom indices. During processing and searching the service application may locate one or more applicable sections from the one or more maintenance document datasets.

After confirmation by the user of at least one appropriate dataset e.g. ATA number Fault code etc. the service application selects one or more sections of the maintenance document datasets applicable for the fault diagnosis and repair and builds a custom isolation and repair document from the complete dataset block . For example the service application may select appropriate document pages from the AMN FIM IPC SRM WDM SSM Eng Drawing etc. which may apply to a task associated with the fault and repair. The selected documents and related procedures may be sent to a local printer block for printing block on physical material such as paper or for viewing block on the user device .

In another implementation referring to process of the service application may retrieve service related data and information from the database on the user device block and format the retrieved service data and information for display on the user device block via for example a small LCD screen. The service application may display one or more service tasks block such as possible isolation and repair tasks. The service application may then prompt the user to select one or more appropriate service tasks block such as one or more appropriate repair tasks. The service application may then create a custom repair task block based on the selection provided by the user .

In still another implementation referring to process of the server device is configured to transfer extract and index maintenance documents block to the user device via for example the network block . The server device may provide retrieval keys block reference data block and task specific data block along with or as part of the maintenance documents. In one aspect the retrieval keys block reference data block and task specific data block allow the service application to search the maintenance documents for specific tasks based on user input as described herein.

In one implementation the server device is adapted to receive an information request from the user via the user device block . In one aspect the requested information may include advisory service bulletin data and information and or service manual data and information. The server device is adapted to retrieve the requested data and information from the one or more databases block . In one aspect retrieval may include selecting an appropriate advisory service bulletin for a specific airplane as provided by the user via the user device . The server device is adapted to provide the retrieved data and information to the user device via the network block . In one aspect the advisory service bulletin data and information may be packed or packaged e.g. using a generally known data communication protocol for transmission to the user device via the network .

In one implementation the server device is adapted to receive recorded information from the user via the user device block . In one aspect the recorded information may reference advisory service bulletins and include recorded responses and recorded results as inputted by the user to status questions in reference to tasks related to advisory service bulletins. The server device is adapted to store e.g. archive the received information in the database for review block . The server device is adapted to provide an operator or an administrator with recorded responses and recorded results for review block . For example an operator may access the recorded data and information from the database and view the data and information on a display component of the server device . In another example the recorded data and information may be used for statistical analysis.

In one implementation the service application of the user device is adapted to interface with the user and request data and information from the server device as requested by the user block . In one example as shown in the user may speak to the user device such as a cell phone and generate a request for data and information that may be transmitted to the server device via the network . As previously described the requested information may include advisory service bulletin data and information and or service manual data and information.

The service application is adapted to receive the requested data and information from the server device via the network block . The service application is adapted to unpack the data and information e.g. using a generally known data protocol and format the unpacked data and information for storage in the database of the user device block . In one example as shown in the user device such as a cell phone includes the removable database to store data and information received from the server device via the network .

The service application is adapted to display the data and information to the user via the display component of the user device block . In one example as shown in the user device such as a cell phone includes the display component to display data and information received from the server device via the network .

In one aspect the requested data and information is interactively displayed and presented as a maintenance process guide that allows the user to selectively view search and or select one or more portions of data and information from advisory service bulletins and or service manuals downloaded from the server device using the method of . In one example as shown in the search application of the user device includes a search component that allows the user to search and select topics from the data and information received from the server device via the network .

In another aspect the interactively presented data and information provides procedural steps reference support material and or engineering data for maintenance service and repair of machinery such as an airplane. In one example as shown in the search application of the user device allows the user to search and select sub topics such as specific maintenance and inspection practices and procedures for selected topics from the data and information received from the server device via the network . As shown in portions of the data and information received from the server device may be printed or viewed by the user . shows one embodiment of a portion of the data and information received from the server device that may be printed or viewed by the user .

Moreover in various implementations the service application is adapted to record responses as inputted by the user during an interactive session block . In one aspect the responses from the user comprises data and information that may be stored in the database of the user device . The service application is adapted to format and package the recorded data and information for transmission to the server device via the network block . In one aspect data and information related to the recorded responses of the user may be packed or packaged e.g. using a generally known data communication protocol for transmission to the server device via the network .

In accordance with embodiments of the invention computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or removable memory component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes removable storage media such as removable memory component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media including wireless transceivers. In one example transmission media may take the form of radio waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the invention execution of instruction sequences to practice the invention may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the invention a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. wireless cell phone network wireless or wired LAN PTSN or various other wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in removable memory component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments of the invention may be implemented using hardware software or various combinations of hardware and software. Where applicable various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope and functionality of the present disclosure. Where applicable various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into subcomponents having software hardware and or both without departing from the scope and functionality of the present disclosure. Where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Embodiments described above illustrate but do not limit the disclosure. It should also be understood that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the principles of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the disclosure is defined only by the following claims.

