---

title: Nano-multiplication region avalanche photodiodes and arrays
abstract: An avalanche photodiode with a nano-scale reach-through structure comprising n-doped and p-doped regions, formed on a silicon island on an insulator, so that the avalanche photodiode may be electrically isolated from other circuitry on other silicon islands on the same silicon chip as the avalanche photodiode. For some embodiments, multiplied holes generated by an avalanche reduces the electric field in the depletion region of the n-doped and p-doped regions to bring about self-quenching of the avalanche photodiode. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07928533&OS=07928533&RS=07928533
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 07928533
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080814
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 964 645 filed 14 Aug. 2007.

The invention claimed herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Avalanche photodiodes are used in imaging arrays where each pixel in an imaging array comprises an avalanche photodiode and associated circuitry. In many applications it may be desirable for an imaging array to exhibit little cross talk between pixels to be easily manufactured to have relatively high quantum efficiency and to have low dark current. It may also be desirable to provide fast quenching of the avalanche current.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

Region is p doped silicon and region is heavily n doped silicon. p region introduces a high potential gradient leading to a relatively thin multiplication region and n region is the cathode for the avalanche photodiode. Polysilicon cap or pad is a thin n region to help protect cathode n region from erosion during metal silicon alloying. Under usual operation the avalanche diode is reverse biased so that cathode is held at a higher potential than anode regions and .

Dashed arrow pictorially illustrates front illumination of the avalanche photodiode whereas dashed arrows illustrate back illumination. Electron hole pair generation due to an absorbed photon occurs in intrinsic silicon region as pictorially represented by hole and electron . As electrons are swept through the depleted regions within active regions and the relatively high electric field contributes to avalanche generation of more electron hole pairs.

In practice embodiments may comprise a plurality of regions of the type illustrated by region where each region includes n and p doped layers e.g. and forming an avalanche photodiode and embodiments may comprise a plurality of regions of the type illustrated by regions and for forming circuits to support the avalanche photodiodes. As a result an embodiment may include an array of such avalanche photodiodes and supporting circuitry.

A region of the type may be viewed as a first type of silicon island used for providing avalanche photodiodes and a region of the type or may be viewed as a second type of silicon island used for providing circuits in support of the avalanche photodiodes. For example formed on silicon island is a MOSFET Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor comprising doped regions and to form a source and a drain and polysilicon region to form a gate. Next to gate is insulator material which may be silicon dioxide for example which are sometimes referred to as sidewall spacers when used as a mask for forming LDD Lightly Doped Drain devices.

The silicon islands are insulated from each other by insulator layer which may be silicon dioxide for example. This results in a silicon on insulator SOI structure for an embodiment which is expected to help mitigate crosstalk between photo pixels in an embodiment comprising an array of avalanche photodiodes and associated circuitry. Isolation of the silicon islands allows for a pixel to detect ultra low light while its neighboring pixels may be illuminated by strong light. Also it is expected that blooming photo carriers generated in one pixel should not invade into its neighboring pixels as may be the case in some prior art imagers. Additional passivation layers may be formed on top of the structures indicated in as well as other layers comprising interconnects but for ease of illustration such additional layers are not shown.

For some embodiments a typical thickness for a silicon island may be in a range of 5 to 10 but other embodiments may utilize silicon islands with different thicknesses such as for example a thickness of up to 200 or more. For some embodiments the active regions making up an avalanche photodiode may be centered about their respective silicon island e.g. . For some embodiments a typical diameter for the structure comprising p region and n region may be about 0.1 where this dimension is denoted by D in and a typical height of the resulting structure which includes some of intrinsic silicon region may be about 0.5 to 1.0 where this dimension is denoted by H in . For some embodiments the doping concentration of p doped layers and may be about 1 10cm with a thickness of about 0.1 to 0.2 .

With buried oxide layer substantially planar the linear dimension along the direction indicated by D may be thought of as a linear dimension parallel to the plane defined by buried oxide layer whereas the linear dimension along the direction indicated by H may be thought of as being perpendicular to the linear dimension indicated by D . Stated more colloquially D denotes a linear dimension in the horizontal direction and H denotes a linear dimension in the vertical direction.

Embodiments are expected to have relatively high quantum efficiency and fill factor leading to a relatively high sensitivity. For front illuminated embodiments with a pixel pitch of 10 a fill factor of between 60 to 70 should be achievable with today s state of the art technology. This relatively high fill factor value is partially due to the relatively small cathode size as well as the elimination of circuitry that would otherwise be needed for quenching. For back illumination the fill factor may be between 90 to 95 with today s state of the art technology.

With the nano scale dimensions for regions and there is a separation of the avalanching structure the depletion region formed by regions and from the photon absorption region e.g. . This allows for a larger absorption thickness to increase quantum efficiency.

Regarding the latter issue embodiments are expected to have what may be described as a self quenching capability. This self quenching capability comes about because of the nano scale dimensions structure of an embodiment avalanche photodiode. Because of the relatively small volume of the reach through structure provided by region the multiplying holes generated in an avalanche is expected to significantly reduce the electric field generated by the depletion region in regions and thereby mitigating the avalanche. Simulation experiments have shown that for some embodiments self quenching may take place in about 10 picoseconds.

A pixel circuit for an avalanche photodiode according to an embodiment is illustrated in where an avalanche photodiode is shown as diode . As seen in the pixel circuit is relatively simple because additional circuitry is not needed for quenching due to the self quenching attribute of avalanche photodiode . There are two working states depending upon the position of switch . When switch is connected to node the pixel circuit is configured into what may be termed a high voltage state to perform photon counting. The voltage at node is higher than the voltage at node . When switch is connected to node the pixel circuit is configured into what may be termed a low voltage state for conventional operation. The voltage at node is lower than the breakdown voltage of avalanche photodiode .

Also shown in the circuit of is reset transistor row selection transistor column bus and transistor the latter serving as a follower or buffer. Components and are standard components used in pixel array circuits. Their operation is well known and need not be discussed in detail. The pixel circuit may be formed on silicon islands or .

A two state pixel circuit such as illustrated in allows the pixel to adapt its sensitivity under different illumination levels which is expected to help embodiments achieve a relatively high dynamic range and high contrast.

An embodiment avalanche photodiode on a silicon island as illustrated in may be integrated on a silicon chip with other embodiment avalanche photodiodes on other silicon islands to provide an array of imaging pixels each with supporting circuitry on silicon islands were each of the silicon islands are electrically isolated from one another except for intended interconnects among the avalanche photodiodes and supporting circuitry.

Various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below. For example the dimension denoted by D in was referred to as a diameter which may imply that nano pillar in is cylindrical in shape. However there is no requirement that nano pillar be cylindrical in shape. Furthermore it is to be understood that the term cylindrical does not necessarily imply a perfect cylinder but rather a structure which is relatively cylindrical in shape depending upon the particular silicon process used to etch a pillar type structure. For example for some processing techniques the shape of nano pillar may be somewhat random in nature and may only approximate a cylinder. Accordingly the dimension denoted by D may be considered a linear dimension but not necessarily a diameter.

