---

title: Digital asset insurance
abstract: Digital assets may be insured against loss. The digital assets may comprise commercial products and/or user-generated data. An insurance product may provide either for monetary reimbursement or replacement (e.g., repurchase) of the digital assets and/or for backup services to backup insured digital assets so that the insured digital assets may be retrieved if the original user copies are lost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08126745&OS=08126745&RS=08126745
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08126745
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 505 filed Oct. 17 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 517 filed Oct. 17 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 523 filed Oct. 17 2008 filed as divisional applications of the instant application the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety.

Insurance is a form of risk management primarily used to hedge against the risk of a contingent loss and may be defined as the equitable transfer of the risk of a loss from one entity to another in exchange for a premium. An insurer is a company that sells insurance. An insurance rate is a factor used to determine the amount called the premium to be charged for a certain amount of insurance coverage.

A digital asset is any form of content and or media that have been formatted into a binary source which include the right to use it. Digital assets may be categorized in groups such as textual content images and multimedia. A user may spend hundreds or thousands of dollars on the purchase of digital assets. No insurance product is available that directly provides coverage for a user s digital assets. For example if a computer memory on which the user stored their purchased digital assets were to be lost or corrupted the user may have to contact the digital asset source s for replacement of the digital assets.

Digital assets may be insured against loss. The digital assets may comprise commercial products and or user generated data. An insurance product may provide either for monetary reimbursement or replacement e.g. repurchase of the digital assets and or for backup services to backup insured digital assets so that the insured digital assets may be retrieved from storage and provided to the user if the original user copies are lost.

In an implementation a user may forward a receipt proof of purchase and or other documentation pertaining to a digital asset purchase and or digital asset acquisition to an institution system. The institution system may generate a premium quote to insure the digital asset and send the premium quote to the user. The user may accept the premium quote and the institution system may insure the digital asset. Alternatively or additionally institution system may generate an offer to backup the digital asset and send the offer to the user. The user may accept the offer to backup the digital asset and the institution system may backup the digital asset. The institution system may store a backup copy of the digital asset in storage internal and or external to the institution system.

In an implementation a user computing device may have an application resident thereon that monitors the user s digital asset purchases and or acquisitions. When the application detects that a digital asset has been purchased or otherwise acquired the application may advise the institution system. The institution system may offer to insure or backup the digital asset.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A user and an associated user computing device are shown along with a retailer and an associated retailer computing device . The user may obtain a digital asset from the retailer and insure the digital asset with the institution system . A digital asset may include for example any type of media music videos movies personal files personalized or customized files or data software applications e.g. commercial freeware shareware etc. software license keys etc. Insuring the digital asset may provide for monetary reimbursement replacement or recovery of a backup copy from storage of the digital asset in the event of a loss as described further herein.

The institution system may include a user interface module an insurance engine and a data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the insurance engine . In an implementation the page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via a secure website associated with the institution system . An example computing device is described with respect to .

The user may be an individual who owns an insurance product also may be referred to herein as a policy or other account that may be provided by or held by the institution associated with the institution system . The user may communicate with the institution system by way of a communications network such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a voice over Internet protocol VoIP network and the like. The user may also communicate with the institution system by phone email instant messaging facsimile postal mail and the like.

The retailer may be any entity that may sell or distribute digital assets e.g. to the user . The sale or distribution may take place electronically e.g. downloading via the Internet or other network or physically e.g. via disk obtained by the user . The user may be in communication with the retailer via a communications network. Additionally the institution system and the retailer may be in communication via a communications network.

In an implementation the user may provide a receipt proof of purchase or other documentation about a digital asset that they would like to insure to the institution system . The user may use an image generator comprising a scanner for example to generate a digital image of the receipt proof of purchase or other documentation. It is contemplated that any device that is capable of generating a digital image may be used to make a digital image of the receipt proof of purchase or other documentation. Additional devices that may be used in the generation of a digital image include a digital camera a photocopier a fax machine and the like for example.

The user may transmit the digital image to the institution system via the user computing device . The institution system may use the digital image to generate a premium quote for insuring the digital asset . Alternatively the user may provide the receipt proof of purchase or other documentation about the digital asset to the institution system by any other electronic or physical techniques.

The insurance engine may receive the receipt proof of purchase or other documentation and generate a premium quote using a premium generator . If a digital image is received the insurance engine may use any known image processing software or other application s to obtain the data from the digital image. The data may be used in the generation of a premium quote.

The premium generator may use any techniques s for generating a premium quote for insuring the digital asset . The premium generator may use data retrieved from data source s by the data source access engine . Additionally the premium generator may request and receive information pertaining to the digital asset from the user and or the retailer . This information may be used in generation of the premium quote. After retrieving or otherwise receiving the data from the various sources the premium generator may use tools applications and aggregators for example to generate a premium quote for insurance of the digital asset . The premium quote may be provided to the user who may accept the premium quote.

The institution system may issue an insurance policy for the digital asset . A commercially available digital asset may be considered to be replaceable by purchase and may be insured for a particular value e.g. replacement value or for replacement e.g. the institution may purchase or otherwise obtain a replacement copy of the digital asset for the user . A customized or personalized digital asset may be considered to be replaceable by backup. An insurance policy written for a customized or personalized digital asset may be for backing up the digital asset and for providing a backup copy of the digital asset to the user in the event of a loss.

If the user incurs a loss of the digital asset the institution system may pay the user the amount that the digital asset was insured for. Alternatively the institution system may replace the digital asset e.g. by contacting the retailer and purchasing the digital asset or providing a license key pertaining to the user s copy of the digital asset . A license key also referred to as a product key is a specific software based key generally comprising a series of numbers and or letters for a digital asset such as a particular software application or a computer game. It may be used to identify that the copy of the application game is original. Activation is sometimes done offline by entering the key or online activation may be used to prevent multiple people using the same key.

The institution system may provide backup of the digital asset . A backup generator may generate a copy of the digital asset using known reproduction techniques and may store the copy in storage such as the storage or the data source s . If the user incurs a loss of the digital asset the institution system may retrieve the backup copy and provide the backup copy to the user . In an implementation if the user computing device on which the digital asset was stored is also lost and insured the institution may provide a replacement computing device to the user with the backup copy of the digital asset stored thereon.

The insurance engine may comprise a digital asset monitor that may scan the user computing device for digital assets stored thereon. The digital assets that the digital asset monitor detects may be insured and or backed up by the institution system as described further herein.

The insurance engine has access to data files and documents pertaining to the user as well as any other data files and documents that are currently stored by the institution system as well as external data files and documents and that may be useful in generating premium quotes for digital assets writing insurance policies for digital assets and backing up digital assets.

The institution system has the ability to retrieve information from one or more data sources via a data source access engine . Data pertaining to the user the user s insurance policies and or the user account s may be retrieved from data source s and or external data sources. The retrieved data may be stored centrally perhaps in storage . Other information may be provided to the institution system from the user and or the retailer .

Data source s may contain data metadata email files and or documents that the institution system maintains pertaining to the user such as personal data such as name physical address email address etc. insurance policy data such as premiums and coverage amounts as well as other account information. The institution system may access this information when generating premium quotes or backing up digital assets for example.

The retailer computing device may provide access to a system maintained by the retailer e.g. pertaining to digital assets which may have been obtained by the user and which may be insured by the institution system . The institution may have the ability to interact with information that may be maintained and or provided by the retailer .

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the insurance engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the insurance engine . As mentioned above the institution system may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation may be combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to digital asset insurance and backup data and status and related data can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may include any combination of systems and sub systems such as electronic devices including but not limited to computers servers databases or the like. The electronic devices may include any combination of hardware components such as processors databases storage drives registers cache random access memory RAM chips data buses or the like and or software components such as operating systems database management applications or the like.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein.

Examples of software modules may include modules that may be used in conjunction with generating a premium quote for a digital asset and sending the premium quote to the user issuing an insurance policy for a digital asset backing up a digital asset and monitoring a user computing device for digital assets generating web page content for display and receiving instructions from the user for example. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At the institution system may receive the receipt proof of purchase and or other documentation. Based on a variety of factors pertaining to the digital asset and or the user at the institution system may generate a premium quote to insure the digital asset and send the premium quote to the user via any electronic or physical delivery technique s . For generation of the premium quote the institution system may request and receive additional information pertaining to the user and or the digital asset from the user and or the retailer. The premium quote may be for monetary reimbursement or replacement of the digital asset in the event of a loss. The user may accept the premium quote at and the institution system may insure the digital asset at .

Alternatively or additionally at the institution may generate an offer to backup the digital asset and send the offer to the user e.g. as a premium quote. The user may accept the offer to backup the digital asset at . At the institution system may backup the digital asset. The institution system may store a backup copy of the digital asset provided by the user in storage internal and or external to the institution system.

At some point after a loss of the digital asset by the user the institution system may pay the user the insured amount may obtain a replacement copy of the digital asset and or may retrieve a backup copy of the digital asset at . In an implementation the institution may act on behalf of the user to get a replacement copy of the digital asset from the retailer at after the digital asset is lost. The institution system may store the product license key s of an insured digital asset such as a software application and use the license key s to obtain a replacement copy of the software application e.g. from the retailer.

The user may have insurance for both their computing device and the digital assets stored thereon. If the user suffers a loss of the computing device and the digital assets stored thereon the institution may provide the user with a new computing device with replacement digital assets stored thereon if available.

In an implementation the user computing device may have an application resident thereon that monitors the user s digital asset purchases and or acquisitions. When the application detects that a digital asset has been purchased or otherwise acquired the application may advise the institution system. The application may recognize certain file types or data types as potentially insurable digital assets and may provide files or data of these types resident on the user computing device to the institution system for consideration as potentially insurable digital assets. The advisory may be received by the institution system at and processing may continue at and or at . The application on the user computing device may be provided by the institution system and may comprise a background plug in to a web browser running on the user computing device for example.

The user may have digital assets that have been personalized by the user and or are not commercially available such as the user s personal data documents and files digital photos image audio video and multimedia files and the like. The institution system may insure these types of digital assets paying the user an amount of money and or providing a backup copy if the insured digital assets are lost. is an operational flow of another implementation of a method that may be used to provide digital asset insurance.

At the user may advise the institution system of the one or more digital assets the user has. For example the user may provide the institution system with a list of their data and or files a summary of their data and or files or the actual data and or files. The user may provide the institution with this information using any transmission technique s such as via mail email facsimile telephone a website etc. The user computing device may have an application stored thereon that generates the information and provides the information to the institution system. In an implementation the institution system may request the information from the user and or the user computing device and the user and or the user computing device may provide the information in response. The institution system may request and or receive the information one time or more frequently such as continuously from time to time or periodically e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. .

At the institution system may generate a premium quote to insure the digital asset s for monetary reimbursement and send the premium quote to the user. Additionally or alternatively at the institution may generate an offer to backup the digital asset s and may send the offer to the user as a premium quote. The user may accept the premium quote for monetary reimbursement and or backup at and the institution system may insure the digital asset s and or backup the digital asset s at e.g. by storing a backup copy of the digital asset s in storage internal and or external to the institution system. The institution system may request that the user provide a copy of the digital asset s to the institution for analysis in the generation of a premium quote and or backup storage.

At some point after a loss of an insured digital asset by the user the institution system may pay the user the insured amount and or may retrieve a backup copy of the digital asset at .

At the institution system may provide the list of digital assets to the user. For each digital asset on the list at the institution system may add the digital assets to an insurance policy that provides insurance for monetary reimbursement replacement and or backup of the digital asset as appropriate for the particular digital asset as determined by the institution system and or previously designated by the user. The digital assets designated for backup may be backed up by the institution system. The user may be advised at and may also be provided with a premium quote for the insurance that is being provided.

At the institution system may monitor the user computing device for additions and or changes to the digital assets resident thereon. In an implementation at some point for example at a particular time in the future continuously from time to time or periodically e.g. once per week once per month etc. the institution system may scan the user computing device for additions and or changes to the digital assets. In an implementation the user may request or otherwise initiate a scan of the user computing device for additions and or changes to the digital assets.

At the institution system may revise the insurance policy and backed up digital assets based on the current digital assets stored on the user computing device. The user may be advised at of the additions and or changes since the previous scan. Processing may continue at .

For each digital asset on the list at the user may select to insure for monetary reimbursement replacement and or backup the digital asset or do neither. The selections may be sent to the institution system at . Accordingly at the institution system may insure the digital assets selected and may backup the digital assets selected for backup e.g. pursuant to providing a premium quote and receiving acceptance and or payment from the user . Documentation and or data pertaining to the digital assets selected for insurance may be provided to the institution system by the user and or by the retailer.

At the institution system may monitor the user computing device for additions and or changes to the digital assets resident thereon. In an implementation at some point for example at a particular time in the future continuously from time to time or periodically e.g. once per week once per month etc. the institution system may scan the user computing device for additions and or changes to the digital assets. In an implementation the user may initiate the institution system scanning the user computing device for additions and or changes to the digital assets. The institution system may generate a revised list of digital assets based on the monitoring.

At the institution system may advise the user of the additions and or changes since the previous scan e.g. by providing the revised list to the user and ask the user if they would like to add reimbursement or replacement insurance and or backup to the additions and or changes to the digital assets. The user may be prompted to select reimbursement and or replacement insurance and or backup or ignore each addition and or change to the digital assets on the user computing device. Processing may continue at .

It is contemplated that a user may have multiple computing devices on which digital assets may be stored. In an implementation the institution system may insure for reimbursement replacement and or backup the digital assets on each computing device associated with the user e.g. multiple computing devices in the user s household multiple computing devices maintained by the user in various locations etc. .

The institution system may monitor the multiple computing devices for additions and or changes to the digital assets and may advise the user accordingly e.g. with a request to the user if they would like to add reimbursement and or replacement insurance and or backup to the additions and or changes to the digital assets on the multiple computing devices. In an implementation a software agent may be provided on each computing device having digital assets that are covered by the digital asset insurance. It is noted that each of the multiple computing devices may store different digital assets that is a single copy of a digital asset may reside on one of the user computing devices and not on other user computing devices.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

