---

title: Semiconductor light emitting devices with high color rendering
abstract: A packaged light emitting device (LED) includes a light emitting diode configured to emit primary light having a peak wavelength that is less than about 465 nm and having a shoulder emission component at a wavelength that is greater than the peak wavelength, and a wavelength conversion material configured to receive the primary light emitted by the light emitting diode and to responsively emit light having a color point with a ccx greater than about 0.4 and a ccy less than about 0.6.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08178888&OS=08178888&RS=08178888
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08178888
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080201
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. 05 2 5507 awarded by the United States Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to semiconductor light emitting devices and methods of fabricating semiconductor light emitting devices and more particularly to packages and packaging methods for semiconductor light emitting devices.

Light emitting diodes and laser diodes are well known solid state electronic devices capable of generating light upon application of a sufficient voltage. Light emitting diodes and laser diodes may be generally referred to as light emitting devices LEDs . Light emitting devices generally include a p n junction formed in an epitaxial layer grown on a substrate such as sapphire silicon silicon carbide gallium nitride aluminum indium gallium nitride gallium arsenide aluminum indium gallium arsenide aluminum indium gallium phosphide and the like. The wavelength distribution of the light generated by the LED generally depends on the material from which the p n junction is fabricated and the structure of the thin epitaxial layers that make up the active region of the device.

Typically an LED chip includes a substrate an n type epitaxial region formed on the substrate and a p type epitaxial region formed on the n type epitaxial region or vice versa . In order to facilitate the application of a voltage to the device an anode ohmic contact is formed on a p type region of the device typically an exposed p type epitaxial layer and a cathode ohmic contact is formed on an n type region of the device such as the substrate or an exposed n type epitaxial layer .

An LED chip emits optical energy having a relatively narrow bandwidth. Accordingly light emitted by an LED chip is highly saturated light that appears to have a single color. However it is desirable in many applications to generate white light using solid state light emitting devices such as LEDs. White light is a combination of different wavelengths of light.

Light that appears white to an observer can be generated by surrounding a blue LED chip with a wavelength conversion material such as a phosphor. At least some of the light emitted by the LED at a first wavelength primary light may be absorbed by the phosphor which may responsively emit light at a second wavelength secondary light . The primary light emitted by the LED chip and the secondary light emitted by the phosphor particles may combine to produce light having a plurality of wavelengths and that may be perceived by an observer as having a different color than either the primary light or the secondary light. For example if the primary light is blue and the phosphor is selected to generate a yellow light in response to stimulation by the blue primary light the resulting combination of light emitted by the package may appear white or nearly white to an observer. However white light that is generated in such a manner may not be capable of illuminating objects well.

A packaged light emitting device LED according to some embodiments of the invention includes a light emitting diode configured to emit primary light having a peak wavelength that is less than about 465 nm and having a shoulder emission component at a wavelength that is greater than the peak wavelength and a wavelength conversion material configured to receive the primary light emitted by the light emitting diode and to responsively emit light having a color point with a ccx greater than about 0.4 and a ccy less than about 0.6 wherein ccx ccx refers to the coordinates of the color point on a 1931 CIE diagram. In some embodiments the wavelength conversion material may include a YAG Ce with ccx ranging between 0.458 and 0.462 and ccy ranging between 0.525 and 0.527.

The device may further include a second wavelength conversion material configured to receive light emitted by the light emitting diode and to responsively emit light having a dominant wavelength greater than 600 nm. In some embodiments the second wavelength conversion material may have ccx 0.639 and ccy 0.362. The second wavelength conversion material may include an orange or a red phosphor. In some embodiments a ratio of a total amount of the first and second wavelength conversion materials by weight can be about 70 30.

The packaged LED may further include a light scattering lens arranged over the wavelength conversion material and configured to refract light emitted by the LED and the wavelength conversion material the light scattering lens may be configured to scatter the emitted light randomly. The light scattering lens may include a transparent lens body including light scattering particles in the lens body. The light scattering lens may include a roughened outer surface.

The LED may have a peak wavelength that is less than about 460 nm. In particular the LED may have a peak wavelength of about 450 nm. The LED may have a shoulder emission component at about 470 nm. The LED may have a dominant wavelength less than about 480 nm.

A packaged light emitting device LED according to some embodiments includes a light emitting diode configured to emit primary light having a peak wavelength that is less than about 460 nm and having a shoulder emission component at a wavelength that is greater than the peak wavelength and a wavelength conversion material configured to receive light emitted by the light emitting diode and to responsively emit warm white light having a color point with a ccx between about 0.4 and 0.46 and a ccy between about 0.36 and 0.42.

Some embodiments of the invention provide methods of forming a packaged light emitting device LED . The methods include mounting a light emitting diode on a submount the light emitting diode being configured to emit primary light having a peak wavelength that is less than about 460 nm and having a shoulder emission component at a wavelength that is greater than the peak wavelength and positioning a wavelength conversion material adjacent the light emitting diode. The wavelength conversion material is configured to receive the primary light emitted by the light emitting diode and to responsively emit light having a color point with a ccx greater than about 0.4 and a ccy less than about 0.5.

The present invention now will be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on another element it can be directly on the other element or intervening elements may also be present. It will be understood that if part of an element such as a surface is referred to as inner it is farther from the outside of the device than other parts of the element. Furthermore relative terms such as beneath or overlies may be used herein to describe a relationship of one layer or region to another layer or region relative to a substrate or base layer as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. Finally the term directly means that there are no intervening elements. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross sectional perspective and or plan view illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region illustrated or described as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features due to normal manufacturing tolerances. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and this specification and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Various embodiments of the present invention for packaging a semiconductor light emitting device will be described herein. As used herein the term semiconductor light emitting device may include a light emitting diode laser diode and or other semiconductor device which includes one or more semiconductor layers which may include silicon silicon carbide gallium nitride and or other semiconductor materials. A light emitting device may or may not include a substrate such as a sapphire silicon silicon carbide gallium nitride and or another microelectronic substrates. A light emitting device may include one or more contact layers which may include metal and or other conductive layers. In some embodiments ultraviolet blue and or green light emitting diodes may be provided. Red and or amber LEDs may also be provided. The design and fabrication of semiconductor light emitting devices are well known to those having skill in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

For example the semiconductor light emitting device may be gallium nitride based LEDs or lasers fabricated on a silicon carbide substrate such as those devices manufactured and sold by Cree Inc. of Durham N.C. The present invention may be suitable for use with LEDs and or lasers as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 201 262 6 187 606 6 120 600 5 912 477 5 739 554 5 631 190 5 604 135 5 523 589 5 416 342 5 393 993 5 338 944 5 210 051 5 027 168 5 027 168 4 966 862 and or 4 918 497 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. Other suitable LEDs and or lasers are described in published U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2003 0006418 A1 entitled Group III Nitride Based Light Emitting Diode Structures With a Quantum Well and Superlattice Group III Nitride Based Quantum Well Structures and Group III Nitride Based Superlattice Structures published Jan. 9 2003 as well as published U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2002 0123164 A1 entitled Light Emitting Diodes Including Modifications for Light Extraction and Manufacturing Methods Therefor. Furthermore phosphor coated LEDs such as those described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0056260 A1 entitled Phosphor Coated Light Emitting Diodes Including Tapered Sidewalls and Fabrication Methods Therefor the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein as if set forth fully may also be suitable for use in embodiments of the present invention. The LEDs and or lasers may be configured to operate such that light emission occurs through the substrate. In such embodiments the substrate may be patterned so as to enhance light output of the devices as is described for example in the above cited U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2002 0123164 A1.

In order to use an LED chip in a circuit it is known to enclose an LED chip in a package to provide environmental and or mechanical protection color selection focusing and the like. An LED package also includes electrical leads contacts or traces for electrically connecting the LED package to an external circuit. In an LED package as illustrated in an LED chip is mounted on a reflective cup by means of a solder bond or conductive epoxy. One or more wirebonds connect the ohmic contacts of the LED chip to leads A and or B which may be attached to or integral with the reflective cup .

The reflective cup may be filled with an encapsulant material containing a wavelength conversion material such as a phosphor. At least some of the light emitted by the LED at a first wavelength primary light may be absorbed by the phosphor which may responsively emit light at a second wavelength secondary light . The primary light emitted by the LED chip and the secondary light emitted by the phosphor particles may combine to produce light having a plurality of wavelengths and that may be perceived by an observer as having a different color than either the primary light or the secondary light. For example if the primary light is blue and the phosphor is selected to generate a yellow light in response to stimulation by the blue primary light the resulting combination of light emitted by the package may appear white or nearly white to an observer.

For white light conversion an LED having a peak wavelength between 445 and 470 nm is typically used. Within the specified range shorter wavelength LEDs 445 455 nm typically have higher radiative flux. However the longer wavelength LEDs 465 475 nm result in higher color rendering index CRI for white light emitting diodes.

The entire assembly may be encapsulated in a clear protective resin which may be molded in the shape of a lens to collimate the light emitted from the LED chip and or phosphor particles in the encapsulant material .

Another LED package is illustrated in . The package of may be more suited for high power operations which may generate more heat. In the LED package one or more LED chips are mounted onto a carrier such as a printed circuit board PCB carrier . A metal reflector mounted on the carrier surrounds the LED chip s and reflects light emitted by the LED chips away from the package . The reflector also provides mechanical protection to the LED chips . One or more wirebond connections are made between ohmic contacts on the LED chips and electrical traces A B on the carrier . The mounted LED chips are then covered with an encapsulant which may provide environmental and mechanical protection to the chips while also acting as a lens. The encapsulant material may further include a phosphor for wavelength conversion. The metal reflector is typically attached to the carrier by means of a solder or epoxy bond.

Yet another LED package that can be used with embodiments of the present invention is illustrated in . As shown therein an LED package includes one or more LED chips mounted on a submount to a carrier substrate . The carrier substrate can include an alumina substrate and or a metal core PCB carrier substrate. A reflector attached to the carrier substrate surrounds the LED chip and defines an optical cavity above the LED chip s . An encapsulant material such as silicone fills the optical cavity .

The reflector reflects light emitted by the LED chip away from the package . The reflector also includes an upwardly extending cylindrical sidewall that defines a channel in which a lens can be inserted. The lens is held in place by the encapsulant material and can move lip and down as the encapsulant material expands and contracts due to heat cycling. The encapsulant material may further include a phosphor for wavelength conversion. The lens may include a light scattering lens that is configured to refract light emitted by the LED and the wavelength conversion material. In some embodiments the light scattering lens is configured to scatter the emitted light randomly. The light scattering can include a transparent lens body including light scattering particles such as TiO AlO SiO etc in the lens body and or the lens can include a roughened outer surface that can randomly scatter light that exits the lens .

Although it is possible to generate light that appears white through a combination of blue light emitted by an LED chip and yellow light emitted by a phosphor objects illuminated by such light may not appear to have a natural coloring because of the limited spectrum of the light. For example because the light may have little energy in the red portion of the visible spectrum red colors in an object may not be illuminated well by such light. As a result the object may appear to have an unnatural coloring when viewed under such a light source.

The color rendering index CRI of a light source is an objective measure of the ability of the light generated by the source to accurately illuminate a broad range of colors. The color rendering index ranges from essentially zero for monochromatic sources to nearly 100 for incandescent sources. Light generated from a phosphor based solid state light source may have a relatively low color rendering index.

For large scale backlight and illumination applications it is often desirable to provide a lighting source that generates a white light having a high color rendering index so that objects and or display screens illuminated by the lighting panel may appear more natural. Accordingly such lighting sources may typically include an array of solid state lighting devices including red green and blue light emitting devices. When red green and blue light emitting devices are energized simultaneously the resulting combined light may appear white or nearly white depending on the relative intensities of the red green and blue sources. There are many different hues of light that may be considered white. For example some white light such as light generated by sodium vapor lighting devices may appear yellowish in color while other white light such as light generated by some fluorescent lighting devices may appear more bluish in color.

The chromaticity of a particular light source may be referred to as the color point of the source. For a white light source the chromaticity may be referred to as the white point of the source. The white point of a white light source may fall along a locus of chromaticity points corresponding to the color of light emitted by a black body radiator heated to a given temperature. Accordingly a white point may be identified by a correlated color temperature CCT of the light source which is the temperature at which the heated black body radiator matches the hue of the light source. White light typically has a CCT of between about 2500K and 8000K. White light with a CCT of 2500K has a reddish color white light with a CCT of 4000K has a yellowish color and while light with a CCT of 8000K is bluish in color.

 Warm white refers to white light that has wavelength components in the red region of the spectrum. Warm white light typically requires a relatively high CRI and accordingly can cause illuminated objects to have a more natural color. For illumination applications it is therefore desirable to provide a warm white light.

In order to achieve warm white emission conventional packaged LEDs include either a single component orange phosphor in combination with a blue LED or a mixture of yellow green and orange red phosphors in combination with a blue LED. However using a single component orange phosphor can result in a low CRI as a result of the absence of greenish and reddish hues. On the other hand red phosphors are typically much less efficient than yellow phosphors. Therefore the addition of red phosphor in yellow phosphor can reduce the effective efficiency of the package which can result in poor luminous efficacy. Luminous efficiency is a measure of the proportion of the energy supplied to a lamp that is converted into light energy. It is calculated by dividing the lamp s luminous flux measured in lumens by the power consumption measured in watts.

According to embodiments of the invention a phosphor having a defined color point range can be used to generate white light along with a blue LED chip having a selected light emission property to produce a warm white LED having both high efficiency and a high color rendering index.

In particular embodiments a yellow phosphor having a color point with a high ccx x coordinate and low ccy y coordinate is used. Such a phosphor can be used in combination with less red phosphor to obtain a warm white color emission. Furthermore the LED chip used may have a shorter wavelength compared to blue LED chips conventionally used for white light conversion. For example the LED chip may have a wavelength of about 450 nm. The lower wavelength chip may have a higher efficiency which can increase the luminous efficacy of the package. However the lower wavelength chip can reduce the CRI of the package. In order to compensate for the loss of CRI caused by using a lower wavelength chip the LED is fabricated to have an electroluminescence characteristic with longer wavelength shoulder. That is even though the LED chip has a shorter peak wavelength its light emission spectrum has additional optical energy at a longer wavelength than the peak wavelength compared to a conventional spectrum. The additional energy is attributable to a spike of optical energy at a longer wavelength than the peak wavelength. Although the spike of longer wavelength energy is lower than the energy at the peak wavelength it can create a longer wavelength shoulder in the light emission spectrum of the LED chip. The presence of the longer wavelength shoulder in the light emission spectrum of the LED can make up for the lower peak wavelength of the LED chip.

A packaged LED according to embodiments of the invention can have a higher packaging factor since the LED package can contain less red phosphor than a conventional warm white LED. Packaging factor is a figure of merit for packaged LEDs that refers to the white output of a packaged LED in lumens divided by the total power output of the LED chip alone.

An exemplary epitaxial structure of an LED chip that can be used to generate blue light having a light emission spectrum with a longer wavelength shoulder in accordance with embodiments of the invention is illustrated in . In particular illustrates a light emitting diode LED structure . The LED structure of is a layered semiconductor structure including gallium nitride based semiconductor layers on a substrate . The substrate is preferably 4H or 6H n type silicon carbide but can also include sapphire silicon bulk gallium nitride or another suitable substrate. In some embodiments the substrate can be a growth substrate on which the epitaxial layers forming the LED structure are formed. In other embodiments the substrate can be a carrier substrate to which the epitaxial layers are transferred. For example the substrate can include silicon alumina or any other suitable material that provides appropriate mechanical electrical and or optical properties. In some embodiments the substrate can be removed altogether as is known in the art.

As shown in the LED structure includes a silicon doped GaN layer on the substrate . One or more buffer layers not shown may be formed between the substrate and the GaN layer . Examples of buffer layers between silicon carbide and group III nitride materials are provided in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 393 993 and 5 523 589 and U.S. application Ser. No. 09 154 363 entitled Vertical Geometry InGaN Light Emitting Diode assigned to the assignee of the present invention the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Similarly embodiments of the present invention may also include structures such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 201 262 entitled Group III Nitride Photonic Devices on Silicon Carbide Substrates With Conductive Buffer Interlay Structure the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

An n type superlattice structure not shown can be formed on the GaN layer . Suitable n type superlattice structures are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 497 assigned to the assignee of the present invention the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The active region can include a multi quantum well structure as discussed in more detail below. An undoped GaN and or AlGaN layer is on the active region and an AlGaN layer doped with a p type impurity is on the undoped layer . A GaN contact layer also doped with a p type impurity is on the AlGaN layer . The structure further includes an n type ohmic contact on the substrate and a p type ohmic contact on the contact layer .

The GaN layer can be between about 500 and 4000 nm thick inclusive and is most preferably about 1500 nm thick. The GaN layer may be doped with silicon at a level of about 5E17 to 5E18 cm. A second GaN layer not shown having a thickness of about 80 and being doped with silicon at a level of less than about 5E19 cmcan be formed on the GaN layer .

The active region may comprise a multi quantum well structure that includes multiple InGaN quantum well layers separated by barrier layers .

The undoped layer on the active region can be undoped GaN or AlGaN between about 0 and 120 thick inclusive. As used herein undoped refers to material that is not intentionally doped with a dopant ion either duing growth or afterwards such as by ion implantation or diffusion. The undoped layer can be about 35 thick. If the undoped layer comprises AlGaN the aluminum percentage in such layer can be about 10 30 and in some embodiments can be about 24 . The level of aluminum in the undoped layer may also be graded in a stepwise or continuously decreasing fashion. The undoped layer may be grown at a higher temperature than the growth temperatures in quantum well region in order to improve the crystal quality of the undoped layer . Additional layers of undoped GaN or AlGaN may be included in the vicinity of the undoped layer . For example the LED structure may include an additional layer of undoped AlGaN about 6 9 thick between the active region and the undoped layer .

An AlGaN layer doped with a p type impurity such as magnesium is provided on the undoped layer . The AlGaN layer may be between about 0 and 300 thick inclusive and more particularly about 130 thick. A contact layer of p type GaN is provided on the layer and is preferably about 1800 thick. Ohmic contacts and are provided on the p GaN contact layer and the substrate respectively.

The active region comprises a multi quantum well structure that includes multiple InGaN quantum well layers separated by barrier layers . The barrier layers can include InGaN where 0 x

The structure of the active layer including quantum well layers and the barrier layers can be as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 497.

The wavelength of light output by the LED structure can be affected by many different growth parameters of the active region including the thickness composition and growth temperature of the quantum well layers . In particular the indium composition of the quantum well layers has a strong influence on the wavelength of light output by the structure. The more indium that is included in a quantum well the longer the wavelength of light that will be produced by the well. For example an indium concentration of about 10 to 27 may produce blue light while an indium concentration of 28 to 35 may produce green light.

As described above in some embodiments the LED chip may have a light emission spectrum that includes a peak wavelength at 450 nm with a shoulder located at a slightly longer wavelength such as at about 465 480 nm. The peak wavelength of 450 nm can be provided through an appropriate selection of indium concentration and growth conditions for the majority of the quantum well layers of the device . The exact growth conditions and indium concentrations depend on the growth system and source materials used. The tuning of a system to produce an LED structure that generates a particular wavelength of light is well known in the art. The longer wavelength shoulder can be provided by altering the indium concentration and or growth conditions and or the thickness of one or more of the quantum wells to provide a longer wavelength emission in addition to the peak wavelength emission. For example the indium concentration of one or more of the quantum wells can be increased. In this manner although the majority of quantum wells can be formed to generate the peak wavelength e.g. 450 nm one or more of the quantum wells can be formed to generate a longer wavelength resulting in the overall chip having a light emission spectrum that desirably includes a longer wavelength shoulder.

As can be seen in a packaged LED according to some embodiments can include a light emitting diode configured to emit primary light having a peak wavelength that is less than about 460 nm and having a shoulder emission component at a wavelength that is greater than the peak wavelength. The wavelength conversion material of the package receives the primary light emitted by the light emitting diode and responsively emits light having a color point with a ccx greater than about 0.4 and a ccy less than about 0.45 where ccx and ccy refer to the x and y color points of the light as plotted on a 1931 CIE color diagram. In particular the wavelength conversion material may be configured emit light having a color point with a ccx between about 0.40 and 0.46 and a ccy between about 0.36 and 0.42 in response to the primary light. The LED can have a peak wavelength that is less than about 460 nm. In particular the LED may have a peak wavelength of about 450 nm. The LED may have a shoulder emission component at about 465 480 nm.

The wavelength conversion material may have a D50 particle size of about 11 m or greater which can reduce scattering within the wavelength conversion material.

A second wavelength conversion material can be provided in the device wherein the second wavelength conversion material is configured to emit light having a dominant wavelength greater than 600 nm i.e. in the red portion of the visible spectrum. In some embodiments the second wavelength conversion material can have ccx 0.639 and ccy 0.362. The second wavelength conversion material may include an orange or a red phosphor. In some embodiments a ratio of a total amount of the first and second wavelength conversion materials by weight can be about 70 30 which can be significantly more than conventionally required.

Using phosphors with larger particle sizes may further improve efficiency due to reduced scattering in the phosphor layer. As light scattering may be desirable for uniformity light scattering may be obtained using a textured lens in the package. The large phosphor particles often results in clustering and results in achieving localized randomization of color temperature thereby resulting in an overall uniform spatial color temperature profile. Suitable phosphors are available for example from Philips MCC Group Leuchtstoffwerk Breitungen Phosphor Tech Litec and or Sarnoff.

In some embodiments it may be useful to use a yellow phosphor with a relatively large phosphor size. In particular the yellow phosphor may have a D50 size of about 11.6 m which is about the same size as typical red phosphors. A D50 size of 11.6 m means that 50 of the phosphor particles are smaller than 11.6 m. 

By using a yellow phosphor with a relatively high ccx and a relatively low ccy the output of the packaged LED can exhibit a natural shift towards warmer white. Furthermore this may require less red phosphor to provide warmer white light potentially resulting in higher efficiency and or better reliability. Using phosphors with larger particle sizes may further improve efficiency due to reduced scattering in the phosphor layer. As light scattering may be desirable for uniformity light scattering may be obtained using a textured lens in the package.

To achieve a color point close to 2800K on the black body curve the ratio of the weight of the red phosphor to the weight of the warmer YAG may be about 1 2.3. Therefore the percentage of red phosphor in the mixture is about 30 . However in order to reach the same color point using the cooler YAG the ratio of the weight of the same red phosphor to the cooler YAG is about 1 1.9. Thus the percentage of red phosphor in the mixture is about 34.5 . The thicknesses of the wavelength conversion layer used for the warmer and the cooler YAG may be about 45 mm and 46 mm respectively. Having a lower amount of red phosphor may result in higher effective efficacy better reliability under high temperature and humidity operation and lower cost. Experimentally obtained data shows that the efficiency boost is about 7 . The cost benefit based on the consumed material is about 12 .

The difference of the percentage of red phosphor used increases as the final color point moves from warm white to soft white or neutral white . Therefore the softer white color points on the line joining A B and the red phosphor color point may have significantly higher efficiency when using a warmer phosphor compared to a cooler phosphor.

The color point of emitted light is plotted in for a number of emitters packaged according to embodiments of the invention. In particular emitters were fabricated in five categories as shown in Table 1.

Accordingly Category A emitters were fabricated using LED chips as primary emitters having a peak emission wavelength of 450 nm and encapsulated with 16 g of yellow phosphor having ccx 0.46 and ccy 0.526. Category B emitters were fabricated using LED chips as primary emitters having a peak emission wavelength of 450 nm and encapsulated with a phosphor mixture including 16 g of yellow phosphor and 1 gram of red phosphor having ccx 0.639 and ccy 0.362 which constituted 5.9 of the total phosphor by weight. Category C emitters were fabricated using LED chips as primary emitters having a peak emission wavelength of 460 nm and encapsulated with a phosphor mixture including 16 g of yellow phosphor and 1 gram of red phosphor which constituted 5.9 of the total phosphor by weight. Category D emitters were fabricated using LED chips as primary emitters having a peak emission wavelength of 457 nm and encapsulated with a phosphor mixture including 16 g of yellow phosphor and 2.75 grams of red phosphor which constituted 14.7 of the total phosphor by weight. Category E emitters were fabricated using LED chips as primary emitters having a peak emission wavelength of 460 nm and encapsulated with a phosphor mixture including 16 g of yellow phosphor and 2.75 grams of red phosphor which constituted 14.7 of the total phosphor by weight.

The LED chips were fabricated by spincoating or dispensing LED wafers with phosphors. The LEDs were packaged in Cree XRE packages including amodel reflectors and scattering lenses.

For comparison conventional soft white and warm white emitters typically include more than 25 red phosphor by weight. For example typical soft white emitters typically have about 25 35 red phosphor by weight while warm white emitters typically have about 35 45 of red phosphor by weight.

As seen in the Category A emitters displayed color points that fell near the blackbody radiation curve. The Category B emitters displayed color points that fell below the blackbody radiation curve on average. The Category C emitters displayed color points that fell around the blackbody radiation curve and that were slightly warmer than the Category A. The Category D emitters displayed color points that were slightly below the blackbody radiation curve on average but warmer than the Category C emitters. The Category E emitters displayed color points that were slightly above the blackbody radiation curve on average and still warmer than the Category D emitters.

The average color points of the emitters are plotted on . The packaging factor color rendering index and lumens ltW for the various categories are shown in the Table 2.

The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. Although a few exemplary embodiments of this invention have been described those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the claims. Therefore it is to be understood that the foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications to the disclosed embodiments as well as other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. The invention is defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

