---

title: Analogs of discodermolide and dictyostatin-1, intermediates therefor and methods of synthesis thereof
abstract: 


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07968736&OS=07968736&RS=07968736
owner: University of Pittsburgh—of the Commonwelth Systems of Higher Education
number: 07968736
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080923
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 497 746 filed Aug. 2 2006 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 655 916 filed Sep. 5 2003 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 408 503 filed Sep. 6 2002 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 437 736 filed Jan. 2 2003 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant CA 78039 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to analogs of discodermolide and dictyostatin 1 intermediates for the synthesis of such analogs and methods of synthesis of such intermediates and analogs.

References set forth herein may facilitate understanding of the present invention or the background of the present invention. Inclusion of a reference herein however is not intended to and does not constitute an admission that the reference is available as prior art with respect to the present invention.

The discovery and development of new chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer is currently of high importance. Some of the best currently available chemotherapeutic agents are natural products or natural product analogs. For example Taxol paclitaxel is a natural product that is currently being used to treat patients with breast and ovarian cancer among others. A number of analogs of Taxol including Taxotere docetaxel are also powerful anticancer agents.

Recently the natural product discodermolide and its analogs have shown great promise as anticancer agents. Discodermolide has been shown to have a mechanism of action similar to Taxol but it is active against Taxol resistant cell lines and it is more water soluble than Taxol. Accordingly it may have a different and or broader spectrum of action than Taxol and be easier to formulate and administer. Like Taxol discodermolide is difficult to synthesize. Some syntheses of discodermolide are described in the following papers Nerenberg J. B. Hung D. T. Somers P. K. Schreiber S. L. Total synthesis of the immunosuppressive agent discodermolide. 1993 115 12621 12622 Smith A. B. III Qiu Y. Jones D. R. Kobayashi K. Total Synthesis of Discodermolide. 1995 117 12011 12012 Marshall J. A. Johns B. A. Total synthesis of discodermolide. 1998 63 7885 7892 Paterson I. Florence G. J. Gerlach K. Scott J. P. Total synthesis of the antimicrotubule agent discodermolide using boron mediated aldol reactions of chiral ketones. 2000 39 377 380 Paterson I. Florence G. J. Synthesis of discodermolide and analogues by control of asymmetric induction in aldol reactions of gamma chiral Z enals. 2000 41 6935 6939 Smith A. B. Beauchamp T. J. LaMarche M. J. Kaufman M. D. Qiu Y. P. et al. Evolution of a gram scale synthesis of discodermolide. 2000 122 8654 8664.

Analogs of discodermolide have also been made and tested for activity. For example see the above references and Paterson I. Florence G. J. Gerlach K. Scott J. P. Sereinig N. A practical synthesis of discodermolide and analogues Fragment union by complex aldol reactions. 2001 123 9535 9544 Martello L. A. LaMarche M. J. He L. Beauchamp T. J. Smith A. B. et al. The relationship between taxol and discodermolide synthetic analogs and modeling studies. 2001 8 843 855 Harried S. S. Yang G. Strawn M. A. Myles D. C. Total Synthesis of Discodermolide An Application of a Chelation Controlled Alkylation Reaction. 1997 62 6098 6099 Paterson I. Florence G. J. Synthesis of discodermolide and analogues by control of asymmetric induction in aldol reactions of gamma chiral Z enals. 2000 41 6935 6939.

Unlike Taxol discodermolide is not readily available in large quantities from natural sources. Accordingly assuring a sufficient supply of discodermolide is problematic. Simplified analogs that retain high anti cancer activity but are easier to make are in urgent need.

Very recently an unusual macrolactone natural product dictyostatin 1 has been isolated from two different sponges and a partial structure has been assigned as shown below. See Pettit G. R. Cichacz Z. A. Isolation and structure of dictyostatin 1. In U.S. Pat. No. 5 430 053 1995 Pettit G. R. Cichacz Z. A. Gao F. Boyd M. R. Schmidt J. M. Isolation and structure of the cancer cell growth inhibitor dictyostatin 11994 1111 1112. The configurations at C16 and C19 have not yet been assigned in the natural product and the absolute configuration is not known. Dictyostatin shows extremely high potencies against and array of cancer cell lines.

Recently dictyostatin has also been shown to stabilize microtubules like discodermolide and Taxol. See Wright A. E. Cummins J. L. Pomponi S. A. Longley R. E. Isbrucker R. A. Dictyostatin compounds for stabilization of microtubules. In PCT Int. Appl. WO62239 2001. Accordingly dictyostatin 1 and its analogs show great promise as new anticancer agents. There is an urgent need for a synthetic route to make dictyostatin 1 and its analogs in order to fully assign the structure of dictyostatin 1 to produce analogs to study the structure activity relationship and to identify and produce the best possible drugs in this family.

The inventors of the present invention as one aspect of the present invention herein set forth a number of analogs of discodermolide as well as methods and intermediates for the synthesis thereof. The inventors of the present invention as another aspect of the present invention herein set forth a family of both closed and open analogs of dictyostatin 1 with methods and intermediates for the synthesis of this family.

When groups including but not limited to SiRRR CHOR and or CORare set forth as a substituent for more than one group in compounds of the claims and the specification of the present invention for example as a substituent of R R R R R Rand Rabove it is to be understood that the groups of those substituents R R R R and Rin this example are independently the same of different within each group and amoung the groups.

In one embodiment Rand Rare H or together form a portion of a six membered acetal ring containing C H p CHOCH or C CH Ris a halogen atom CHOR CHO COR CH CHCHOR CH CHCHO wherein Ris H an alkyl group an aryl group a benzyl group a trityl group SiRRR CHOR or COR and Ris H or alkyl.

In still a further aspect the present invention provides a process for conversion of a first compound with the formula

In one embodiment the process is for conversion of a compound with the following stereostructure or its enantiomer

Ris an alkyl group an allyl group a benzyl group an aryl group an alkoxy group or NRR wherein Rand Rare independently H an alkyl group or an aryl group 

In one embodiment of the process Ris alkenyl Ris CHCH CH or CH C CH and Ris CHR CHR CHR CHR CHR C R C R C R C R wherein y1 y4 are 1 y5 is 0 Rand Rare R Ris H Ris CH R Rare H and Ris OR.

In one embodiment of the process the first compound is converted by reacting the first compound with 2 4 6 trichlorobenzoylchloride.

The above general structures for the compounds of the present invention include all stereoisomers thereof other than the natural compound dictyostatin 1 . Moreover the structures of the compounds of the present invention include the compounds in racemic form enantiomerically enriched form or enantiomerically pure form.

The terms alkyl aryl and other groups refer generally to both unsubstituted and substituted groups unless specified to the contrary. In that regard the groups set forth above can be substituted with a wide variety of substituents to synthesize analogs retaining biological activity. Unless otherwise specified alkyl groups are hydrocarbon groups and are preferably C C that is having 1 to 15 carbon atoms alkyl groups and more preferably C Calkyl groups and can be branched or unbranched acyclic or cyclic. The above definition of an alkyl group and other definitions apply also when the group is a substituent on another group for example an alkyl group as a substituent of an alkylamino group or a dialkylamino group . The term aryl refers to phenyl or naphthyl. As used herein the terms halogen or halo refer to fluoro chloro bromo and iodo.

The term alkoxy refers to OR wherein R is an alkyl group. The term alkenyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group with at least one double bond preferably with 2 15 carbon atoms and more preferably with 2 10 carbon atoms for example CH CHR or CHCH CHR wherein R can be a group including but not limited to an alkyl group an alkoxyalkyl group an amino alkyl group an aryl group or a benzyl group . The term alkynyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group with at least one triple bond preferably with 2 15 carbon atoms and more preferably with 2 10 carbon atoms for example C CR or CH C CR wherein R can be a group including but not limited to an alkyl group an alkoxyalkyl group an amino alkyl group an aryl group or a benzyl group . The terms alkylene alkenylene and alkynylene refer to bivalent forms of alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups respectively.

Certain groups such as amino and hydroxy groups may include protective groups as known in the art. Preferred protective groups for amino groups include tert butyloxycarbonyl formyl acetyl benzyl p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl trityl. Other suitable protecting groups as known to those skilled in the art are disclosed in Greene T. Wuts P. G. M. Wiley 1991 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Other aspects of the present invention include the synthesis of the compounds of the present invention as well as the biological assaying of such compound and the biological activity of such compounds against for example cancer such as breast prostate cancer and ovarial cancer . For example in another aspect the present invention provides a method of treating a patient for cancer including the step of administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of a biologically active compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The present invention along with the attributes and attendant advantages thereof will best be appreciated and understood in view of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Synthesis of Simplified Analogs of Discodermolide The inventors of the present invention hypothesized that active analogs of discodermolide would result after removal of the C14 and C16 methyl groups and the C7 hydroxy group. These deletions greatly simplify the synthesis by allowing the two cis disubstituted alkenes of analogs 1 and 2 to be made by Wittig type reactions. A family of simple analogs 1 were shown to have moderate activity. However by incorporating a lactone in place of the simple ester side chains of 1 the inventors of the present invention have discovered anti cancer agents of increased activity that are still significantly simpler to make than discodermolide.

The syntheses of two representative isomeric aldehydes 9a and 9b for incorporation of the left part of these molecules are shown in . he synthesis of the left display bearing the configuration of discodermolide started with the commercially available methacrolein 3 . Reaction of 3 with the boron enolate of Evans oxazolidinone 4 gave the corresponding alcohol which was silylated to give compound 5 in 90 yield. Lactonization followed by the introduction of allyl group was performed by the previously reported method to give 6 in good yield. See Day B. W. Kangani C. O. Avor K. S. Convenient syntheses of 2R 3S 4R 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethyl 5 oxopentanoic acid methoxymethyl amide from methacrolein. Preparation of C1 C7 and C17 C24 fragments of discodermolide. 2002 13 1161 1165. Lactone opening oxidation and allylation gave 7. Conversion to the methyl acetal was accomplished by DIBAL diisobutylaluminum hydride reduction to the corresponding lactol followed by treatment with camphorsulfonic acid CSA in methanol to give a desilylated intermediate which was protected with methoxymethyl chloride MOMCl to give a mixture of anomers 8 1 1 . These were separable by silica gel flash chromatography. The final left fragment 9a was obtained by hydroboration of the anomer 8 with BH DMS borane dimethysulfide followed by oxidation with SO pyridine.

The synthesis of the C4 epi lactone left display 9b started from 1 4 butanediol . Monoprotection with PMB bromide PMB is p methoxybenzyl was performed with NaH in DMF. After oxidation reaction of the crude aldehyde 10 with the boron enolate of Evans oxazolidinone 4 gave the corresponding syn alcohol which was silylated to give compound II in 90 yield. Lithium borohydride reduction followed by oxidation gave the aldehyde 12. A second syn aldol addition was performed with same Evans oxazolidinone 4 to give the corresponding alcohol which was protected with MOM chloride to give compound 13. Desilylation of 13 with HF gave the cyclized product 14 in high yield. Conversion to the methyl acetal was easily accomplished by DIBAL reduction to the corresponding lactol followed by treatment with PPTS pyridinium p toluene sulfonate in methanol to give 15 as a 2.5 1 mixture of anomers from which the major anomer a was isolated by silica gel flash chromatography. The final left fragment 9b was obtained by hydrogenolysis of the PMB protecting group followed by Dess Martin oxidation.

These synthetic routes are flexible and substantially any stereoisomer of the lactone 9 can be made with the appropriate chiral auxiliary and reaction conditions.

Center intermediate 21 was prepared as shown in . Oxazolidinone 18 was prepared from S 3 hydroxy 2 methylpropionic methyl ester 16 by the known procedure for the preparation of ent 18. See Clark D. L. Heathcock C. H. Studies on the alkylation of chiral enolates application toward the total synthesis of discodermolide. 1993 58 5878 5879. Reduction of 18 with lithium borohydride gave the diol which was protected by anisaldehyde dimethyl acetal 19 to give the acetal 20. Deprotection of the primary TBS group with tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF iodination and treatment with triphenylphosphine afforded the phosphonium salt 21 in 72 yield. Phosphonium salts 22 and 23 were also used for Wittig olefination but the results were unsatisfactory. Smith also encountered difficulties with related Wittig reagents in discodermolide synthesis. See Smith A. B. Beauchamp T. J. LaMarche M. J. Kaufman M. D. Qiu Y. P. et al. Evolution of a gram scale synthesis of discodermolide. 2000 122 8654 8664. These difficulties may result at least in part from the hygroscopic nature of the phosphonium salts. In contrast compound 21 is a white non hygroscopic solid and its Wittig reactions were reliable even though no special care was taken with its storage for example salt 21 was useful for reactions even after it was stored at room temperature for several months .

As shown in the construction of the right fragment 34 featured aldol reactions. Syn Aldol reaction of aldehyde 24 with 4 provided 25 which was reduced to a diol and protected with anisaldehyde dimethyl acetal 19 to give 26. Selective opening of the benzylidine ring of 26 with DIBAL gave a primary alcohol which was oxidized to aldehyde 27. The subsequent anti aldol condensation using Heathcock s aldol reaction with dimethylphenyl propionate 28 furnished compound 29 as the major product in 73 yield. See Heathcock C. H. Pirrung M. C. Montgomery S. H. Lampe J. Acyclic stereoselection 13 Aryl esters reagents for threo aldolization. 1981 37 4087 4095. The relative configuration of intermediate 29 was confirmed by C and H NMR analyses of the corresponding acetonide 34. Silylation of the newly formed hydroxyl group of 29 reduction of the aryl ester with DIBAL and Dess Martin oxidation of the resultant primary alcohol afforded aldehyde 30. The Z diene moiety was introduced by a two step procedure developed by Paterson and coworkers using a Nozaki Hiyama reaction. See Paterson I. Schlapbach A. Studies towards the total synthesis of the marine derived immunosuppresant discodermolide stereoselective synthesis of a C Csubunit. 1995 498 500. Addition of the aldehyde 30 and allyl bromide 31 to a suspension of CrClin THF produced an intermediate hydroxy silane not shown which upon treatment with NaH underwent syn elimination to generate the required Z diene 32. Selective deprotection of the primary TBS group iodination and then treatment with triphenylphosphine gave the phosphonium salt 33 in good yield.

The first Wittig reaction of 9a with 21 provided 35 see . DIBAL reductive cleavage of the acetal followed by Dess Martin oxidation gave aldehyde 37. Likewise aldehyde 38 was made from 9b via 36. The second Wittig olefination was accomplished with 38 as an example and phosphonium salt 33 . Tetrabutylammonium fluoride deprotection followed by carbamoylation using Ko ovsky s method See Ko ovsky P. Carbamates a method of synthesis and some synthetic applications. 1986 27 5521 5524 afforded the Ccarbamate containing compound 39. The lactone was built from the methyl acetal in the left fragment by using aqueous 60 acetic acid in THF followed by Dess Martin oxidation. Deprotected analog 40 containing a free C3 hydroxy group on the lactone was obtained by the removal of MOM group with 4N HCl followed by removal of the PMB protecting groups with DDQ oxidation. Two additional example compounds 41 and 42 were prepared from the intermediate 39 by using appropriate conditions. All three of these analogs exhibited significant activity as shown in and Table 1. Surprisingly the C3 MOM protected analogs 41 and 42 showed better microtubule hypernucleation activities than the analog 40 with a free C3 hydroxy group. As can be seen in discodermolide is superior to paclitaxel taxol in that it causes equivalent microtubule assembly at both lower concentrations and temperatures the increase in absorbance caused by discodermolide occurs at a time point earlier than that caused by paclitaxel . Additionally the polymer induced to form by discodermolide is more resistant to cold induced disassembly than is the paclitaxel induced polymer. Both analogs 41 and 42 showed these more rapid polymer inducing and cold resistant properties albeit at somewhat lower potencies for example higher concentrations of the analogs were necessary for these effects to be detected than discodermolide. MOM ether lactone 41 was the most potent among these analogs.

Table 1 shows microtubule stabilizing antiproliferative and paclitaxel displacing properties of 40 42. Again the lactone MOM ether 41 was more potent than the lactol 42 or free hydroxy 40 relatives. The cellular activity of 41 was good showing a submicromolar 50 growth inhibitory GI concentration. This compound also showed considerable affinity for the paclitaxel binding site on tubulin. A 2 fold molar excess of 41 displaced H paclitaxel from microtubules better than paclitaxel and at almost the same potency as discodermolide.

Macrocycle 43 is a representative example of a dictyostatin analog with an alkyl chain bridging the lactone carbonyl group and the C10 C11 alkene and with two Z double bonds in the macrocycle. It can also be considered as a macrocyclic analog of discodermolide. This can be synthesized convergently from three components 33 21 and 44 via sequential Wittig couplings and a macrocyclization . This design allows the synthesis of substantially any stereoisomer by employing the desired isomer of the relevant precursor 21 or 33.

Fragment 45 was synthesized from 1 10 decanediol not shown by mono TBS protection NaH TBSCl 42 followed by Dess Martin oxidation 80 . Fragment 21 was prepared as shown in . Fragment 33 was prepared as shown in .

The coupling of the three fragments is summarized in . Generation of the ylide from phosphonium salt 21 and NaHDMS followed by addition of aldehyde 44 gave the Wittig product in good yield 75 provided that the reaction was conducted at high concentration 1M in 21 . The formation of the Z alkene was confirmed by the 10 Hz coupling constant between the vinyl protons. Selective opening of the PMB acetal was accomplished by addition of 3 equiv of DIBAL to give a primary alcohol. This was oxidized to an aldehyde under Dess Martin conditions. Wittig conditions similar to those above were then deployed to prepare 45 from this aldehyde and phosphonium salt 33.

Selective deprotection of 45 was achieved using HF pyridine and the resulting primary alcohol was oxidized to acid 46. The other TBS group was then removed with TBAF. Using the Yamaguchi protocol the macrolactone ring was then constructed. PMB deprotection using DDQ provided target product 43 whose protons and carbons were assigned by COSY and HMQC NMR experiments. The location of the macrolactone ring was confirmed by HMBC NMR experiments.

Acyclic compounds 47 48 and 49 were readily made from appropriate synthetic intermediates 45 or 46 in reasonable yields .

These analogs were tested for antiproliferative activity in vitro against two human cancer cell lines Table 2 . Macrolactone 43 and non cyclized alcohol 47 and ester 48 exhibited similar 50 growth inhibitory concentrations in the 15 30 M range. Carboxylic acid 49 was inactive 50 M possibly due to poor cell membrane penetration. The modest activity of these compounds is encouraging given the simplicity and flexibility of their lower chain.

We therefore decided to introduce the more complex bottom part of dictyostatin 1 lacking only the C9 OH group. The synthesis of a lower fragment more closely related to dictyostatin is shown in . Synthesis of the needed aldehyde 51 started from the intermediate 25 which was reduced to an alcohol with LiBH followed by PMB acetal protection as in . Selective acetal opening produced alcohol 50 which was subjected to Dess Martin oxidation to give aldehyde 27 see . Wittig Horner reaction and removal of the TBS group with HF pyridine gave a primary alcohol which was oxidized to aldehyde 51.

Center part Wittig salt 21 was reacted with aldehyde 51 to give the z olefin . This was followed by selective PMP acetal opening with NaCNBH TMSCl to yield a primary alcohol. The aldehyde obtained after Dess Martin oxidation was again subjected to Wittig reaction with 33 to generate 52. Ester 52 was reduced to the alcohol with DIBAL followed by Dess Martin oxidation and application of the Still z variant of the Wittig reaction to afford E Z doubly unsaturated ester 53. Selective removal of the TBS groups was accomplished by exposure to 3N HCl MeOH in THF 1 1 . The resulting ester was hydrolyzed by using 1N KOH in refluxing in EtOH. Finally the Yamaguchi lactonization protocol followed by DDQ deprotection gave macrolactone 54 whose structure was confirmed by HMBC and other NMR experiments. No isomerization of either of the dienes or the isolated cis alkenes was detected.

Compound 54 proved to be quite potent in terms of antiproliferative activity against human carcinoma cells Table 2 showing a 50 growth inhibitory concentration against breast and ovarian cancer cells of about 1 M. Furthermore compound 54 displaced H paclitaxel stoichiometrically bound to microtubules at about rd the potency of discodermolide.

A second representative general strategy for the synthesis of stereoisomers and close analogs of dictyostatin is shown in . Again the molecule is dissected such that every stereocenter can be controlled and modified either by starting with an appropriate precursor or through an asymmetric reaction allowing access to both possible isomers.

Coupling of the bottom fragment with the center fragment and elaboration are shown in . Wittig reaction of 21 and 60 proceeded smoothly to form 61 which was hydrolyzed and reduced to give 62. After tritylation to 63 DIBAL reduction gave 64. Oxidation and Wittig Horner reaction produced 65 which was reduced to give 66 and hydrolyzed to acid 67. Activation of 67 as the mixed anhydride preceded conversion to the oxazolidinone 68.

Introduction of the C16 stereocenter and introduction of the top fragment are shown in . Evans asymmetric alkylation to 69 followed by removal of the chiral auxiliary by reduction gave 70. Separately reagent 71 was made from the Evans oxazolindinone by displacement with LiCHP O OMe . Dess Martin oxidation and Horner Emmons olefination with 71 then gave 72 which was reduced with NiCl NaBHto 73. Now reduction with sodium borohydride gave a 2.8 1 mixture of stereoisomers which could be separated and converted to the final products independently. Silylation to 75 followed by DIBAL reduction gave 76 which was converted to diene 77 as described above. Detriylation then gave 78.

Completion of the synthesis is shown in . Dess Martin oxidation and Still Gennari olefination gave 79 which was deprotected with DDQ to 80. Saponification then gave the hydroxy acid 81 ready for macrocyclization. Treatment of 81 under the Yamaguchi protocol gave 82 which was finally deprotected to give the target product 83 an isomer of dictyostatin 1 called dictyostatin 5.

Representative methods to make analogs of the terminal diene fragment are shown in . Alkene 84 was ozonized to give the aldehyde which was subjected to a Wittig reaction to give analogs like 85. Alternatively 84 can be converted to the Z vinyl iodide 86 which can in turn be coupled with organometallic reagents like phenyl zinc iodide to give 87. This combination of olefination and organometallic and related coupling methods allows access to a wide variety of groups in this position.

The versatility of the synthesis is illustrated by the preparations of representative additional fragments that can be used to make dictyostatin its isomers and its analogs. summarizes the synthesis of a fully elaborated bottom fragment 92. Acetal 88 readily prepared from D malic acid was silylated with t butyldiphenylsilyl chloride TBDPSCl . Reductive cleavage of the acetal with DIBAL followed by Swern oxidation provided aldehyde 89. Reaction of 89 with the indicated Z crotyl boronate according to Roush See Roush W. R. Hoong L. K. Palmer M. A. J. Straub J. A. Palkowitz A. D. Asymmetric synthesis using tartrate modified allyl boronates. 2. Single and double asymmetric reactions with alkoxy substituted aldehydes 1990 55 4117 4126 provided 90 in 63 isolated yield. PMB protection ozonolysis and Wittig Horner olefination then gave 91. This was converted to the E Z diene 92 by DIBAL reduction Dess Martin oxidation Still Gennari olefination and desilylation with HF pyridine.

 4R 4 Benzyl 3 2R 3R 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethylpent 4 enoyl oxazolidin 2 one 5 . TBDMSOTf 3.44 mL 15 mmol was added to a stirred solution of aldol product 3.03 g 10 mmol and 1 6 lutidine 2.32 mL 20 mmol in CHCl 20 mL at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction was quenched by the addition of aqueous HCl 0.5 N 50 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with CHCland dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of solvent under reduced pressure. The product was purified by short column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 . Crude 5 was used without purification.

 2S 3R 4S 5R 2 Allyl 6 methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 8 . Diisobutylaluminum hydride 1.0 M in THF 3.3 mL 3.3 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 7 894 mg 3 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 30 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 78 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred for an additional 1 h at 78 C. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of saturated aqueous potassium sodium tartrate 50 mL and stirred for 3 h at room temperature. Once the organic and aqueous layers had separated the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The crude lactol was used for the next reaction without further purification.

A solution of the lactol and CSA 0.3 mmol in MeOH was stirred for 24 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and washed with saturated NaHCO 50 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was used for the next reaction.

N N Diisopropylethylamine 7.5 mL and chloromethyl methyl ether 1.13 mL 15 mmol were added to a solution of the alcohol in CHCl 15 mL . The reaction mixture was heated to reflux and stirred overnight. The reaction was quenched with aqueous saturated NaHCO 50 mL followed by washing with brine. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 7 3 to provide the pure anomers of 8 33 32 . tilde over 8 IR CHCl 3053 2985 2305 1422 1264 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.04 m 1H 5.20 5.10 m 2H 4.81 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 4.73 d 1H J 2.37 Hz 4.67 d 1H J 6.8 Hz 3.62 m 2H 3.55 s 3H 2.47 m 1H 2.30 m 1H 2.16 m 1H 1.85 m 1H 1.03 d 3H J 7.1 Hz 0.97 d 3H J 6.8 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 135.1 116.4 101.3 95.9 81.9 75.8 56.4 55.7 37.5 37.3 33.6 13.2 9.9 HRMS EI calcd for CHO244.1596 found 244.1592. tilde over 8 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.00 m 1H 5.22 5.12 m 2H 4.83 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 4.69 d 1H J 7.2 Hz 4.49 d 1H J 1.8 Hz 3.88 dt 1H J 3.6 8.8 Hz 3.53 t 2H J 3.6 Hz 3.48 s 3H 2.45 m 1H 2.28 2.11 m 3H 1.94 m 1H 1.12 d 3H J 7.3 Hz 1.00 d 3H J 6.9 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 135.2 116.7 103.4 95.6 78.7 69.6 55.7 37.2 35.8 33.6 15.9 13.5.

 2S 3R 4S 5R 6R 3 6 Methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl propionaldehyde 9a . BH.MeS 1 M in THF 3 mL 3 mmol was added to a solution of 8 488 mg 2 mmol in THF 10 mL at 0 C. with stirring. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 3 h. The reaction was quenched with 2N aqueous NaOH 10 mL followed by HO 30 3 mL . After 1 h the mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 7 3 to yield 392 mg 75 of alcohol as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3103 2982 1375 1240 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 4.83 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 4.76 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 4.69 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 3.75 t 2H J 5.4 Hz 3.61 t 1H J 2.7 Hz 3.57 s 3H 2.58 br s 1H 2.17 m 1H 1.90 1.80 m 4H 1.04 d 3H J 7.1 Hz 0.97 d 3H J 6.8 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 101.5 96.0 82.0 75.9 62.8 56.6 55.8 37.6 34.0 29.4 28.6 13.4 9.8 HRMS EI calcd for CHO262.1780 found 262.1792.

Pyridinium sulfurtrioxide 477 mg 3 mmol was added to a stirred solution of alcohol 262 mg 1 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 0.52 mL 3 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 6 mL and DMSO 12 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at the ambient temperature for 1 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 50 mL and washed with aqueous HCl 0.5 N 50 mL and brine 10 ml . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. Flash silica gel column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 4 1 to remove SO pyridine residue provided the crude aldehyde 9a as a colorless oil which was used without further purification.

 4R 4 Benzyl 3 2R 3S 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 6 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 methylhexanoyl oxazolidin 2 one 11 . Pyridinium sulfur trioxide 7.15 g 45 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the mono PMB protected alcohol 10 3.15 g 15 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 8.0 mL 45 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL and DMSO 30 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h diluted with ethyl ether 300 mL and washed with aqueous HCl 0.5 N 200 mL and brine. The separated organic layer was dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration provided the crude aldehyde 10 as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification.

N N Diisopropylethylamine 1.9 mL 11 mmol was added to a solution of propionyloxazolidinone 2.33 g 10 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 110 mL at 0 C. followed by dropwise addition of BuBOTf 1.0 M in CHCl 11 mL 11 mmol . The solution was stirred for 0.5 h at 0 C. Crude 10 in anhydrous CHCl 30 mL was added at 78 C. The mixture was stirred for 10 min at 78 C. followed by an additional 2 h at 0 C. The reaction was quenched by addition of phosphate buffer pH 7.0 50 mL . A solution of hydrogen peroxide 30 10 mL in methanol 20 mL was added and the mixture was allowed to stir for 1 h at 0 C. After separation of organic and aqueous layers the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 4 1 to yield the aldol adduct 3.83 g 87 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3472 2954 2860 2252 1778 1691 1383 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.48 7.36 m 7H 7.01 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.58 m 1H 4.33 s 2H 4.18 br s 1H 3.94 s 3H 3.91 m 1H 3.63 t 2H J 6.0 Hz 3.40 dd 1H J 3.2 13.3 Hz 3.37 br s 1H 2.90 dd 1H J 3.8 13.3 Hz 1.97 1.59 m 5H 1.40 d 3H J 7.2 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 177.3 159.2 153.1 135.3 130.6 129.5 129.3 129.0 127.4 113.8 72.5 71.5 69.9 66.2 55.2 42.7 37.7 31.3 26.4 14.3 11.1 HRMS EI calcd for CHNO441.2151 found 441.2162.

TBDMSOTf 1.7 mL 7.5 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the above alcohol 2.20 g 5 mmol and 2 6 lutidine 1.2 mL 10 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction was quenched by addition of aqueous HCl 0.5 N 100 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with CHCland dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The product was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 to yield 11 IR CHCl 3020 2955 2858 1779 1362 1211 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.45 7.36 m 7H 7.00 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.70 m 1H 4.56 s 2H 4.27 4.15 m 3H 4.04 dd 1H J 5.4 6.8 3.91 s 3H 3.60 m 3H 3.40 dd 1H J 3.0 13.2 Hz 2.90 dd 1H J 9.5 13.2 Hz 1.80 br m 4H 1.38 d 3H J 6.8 Hz 1.05 s 9H 0.21 s 3H 0.17 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 175.4 159.2 153.2 135.5 130.9 129.6 129.3 129.0 127.4 113.8 72.9 72.5 70.2 66.1 55.9 55.3 42.8 37.7 32.1 26.0 25.2 18.2 12.2 3.92 4.65 LRMS ESI 578.3 M Na .

 2S 3S 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 6 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 methylhexan 1 ol. Lithium borohydride 2.0 M in THF 5 mL 10 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 11 2.77 g 5 mmol and methanol 0.4 mL 10 mmol in anhydrous THF 20 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 0 C. and then warmed to ambient temperature. After 3 h at room temperature the reaction was quenched with aqueous NHCl 100 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 7 3 to yield the alcohol 1.48 g 78 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2948 2856 2302 1612 1265 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.27 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.00 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 4.43 s 2H 3.78 s 3H 3.67 dd 1H J 8.6 10.5 Hz 3.51 3.41 m 3H 2.78 br s 1H 1.94 m 1H 1.72 1.49 m 4H 0.90 s 9H 0.81 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 0.09 s 3H 0.08 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.2 130.6 129.3 113.8 75.4 72.6 70.1 65.8 55.9 55.3 39.7 29.1 26.6 25.9 18.0 12.1 4.28 4.38 LRMS ESI 405.2 M Na .

 4R 4 Benzyl 3 2R 3S 4R 5S 5 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 3 hydroxy 8 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 4 dimethyloctanoyl oxazolidin 2 one 12 . Pyridinium sulfur trioxide 2.38 g 15 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the above TBS protected alcohol 1.91 g 5 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 2.65 mL 15 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 5 mL and DMSO 10 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at the ambient temperature for 1 h diluted with ethyl ether 100 mL washed with aqueous HCl 0.5 N 100 mL and brine then dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration provided the crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used without further purification.

N N Diisopropylethylamine 0.97 mL 5.5 mmol was added to a solution of propionyloxazolidinone 1.16 g 5 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 11 mL at 0 C. followed by dropwise addition of BuBOTf 1.0 M in CHCl 5.5 mL 5.5 mmol . The solution was stirred for 0.5 h at 0 C. A solution of crude aldehyde 12 from above in anhydrous CHCl 10 mL was added at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min at 78 C. then for 2 h at 0 C. The reaction mixture was quenched with phosphate buffer pH 7.0 50 mL . A solution of hydrogen peroxide 30 10 mL in methanol 20 mL was slowly added and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. After the separation of organic and aqueous layers the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 4 1 to yield desired compound 2.29 g 75 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2949 2855 2253 1779 1692 1463 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.33 7.19 m 7H 7.01 d 2H J 8.1 Hz 4.42 m 1H 4.44 s 2H 4.16 d 1H J 5.1 Hz 4.01 m 1H 3.95 t 1H J 6.3 Hz 3.85 m 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.43 br s 2H 3.24 br s 1H 3.20 dd 1H J 2.4 13.5 Hz 2.77 dd 1H J 9.6 13.2 Hz 1.56 1.31 m 5H 1.32 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.95 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.89 s 9H 0.08 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 177.2 159.2 152.7 135.1 130.6 129.5 129.3 129.0 127.5 113.8 76.8 74.2 72.6 70.0 66.1 55.3 55.0 40.6 38.1 37.8 31.3 25.9 18.1 13.2 7.4 3.5 4.6 HRMS EI calcd for CHNOSi 613.3435 found 613.3427.

 4R 4 Benzyl 3 2R 3S 4R 5S 5 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 8 4 methoxybenzyloxy 3 methoxymethoxy 2 4 dimethyloctanoyl oxazolidin 2 one 13 . N N Diisopropylethylamine 7.5 mL and chloromethyl methyl ether mL 9 mmol were added to a solution of the alcohol from above 1.83 g 3 mmol in CHCl 15 mL . The mixture was stirred at reflux overnight. The reaction was quenched with aqueous sat d NaHCO 50 mL and washed with brine. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 to provide the pure product in 92 yield IR CHCl 3020 2862 1781 1215 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.36 7.27 m 7H 6.94 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.75 s 2H 4.69 m 1H 4.53 s 2H 4.19 dd 1H J 10.2 15.0 Hz 3.97 dd 1H J 3.0 6.6 Hz 3.84 br s 4H 3.43 br t 2H 3.45 s 3H 3.30 dd 1H J 3.0 13.2 Hz 2.77 dd 1H J 9.3 13.5 Hz 1.81 1.75 m 5H 1.36 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 1.02 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.98 s 9H 0.16 s 3H 0.15 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 175.5 159.1 153.0 135.4 131.0 129.5 129.2 129.0 127.4 113.7 98.3 80.3 76.9 73.2 72.3 70.5 66.0 56.3 55.6 55.2 41.7 40.8 37.6 30.6 26.1 24.2 18.3 14.0 10.5 3.9 4.3 HRMS EI calcd for CHNOSi M CHOCH 612.3356 found 612.3367 M CHOCH .

6 3R 4S 5S 6S 3 4 Methoxybenzyloxy propyl 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 one 14 . HF pyridine 6 mL was added to a solution of 13 1.31 g 2 mmol in MeOH 20 mL and pyridine 10 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 h diluted with EtOAc 100 mL washed with aqueous HCl 0.5 N 2 50 mL and with brine. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 to provide the pure product in 83 yield IR CHCl 3020 2952 1730 1513 1216 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.24 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.87 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.72 d 1H J 7.2 Hz 4.60 d 1H J 7.2 Hz 4.48 m 1H 4.43 s 2H 3.80 s 3H 3.50 3.39 m 2H 3.39 s 3H 3.26 dd 1H J 1.1 7.0 Hz 2.58 t 1H J 6.9 Hz 2.03 d 1H J 7.5 Hz 1.81 1.63 m 4H 1.31 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.91 d 3H J 7.3 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 174.1 159.2 130.5 129.3 113.8 95.5 82.6 76.7 72.6 69.4 55.9 55.3 40.5 38.4 28.6 26.0 14.4 11.9 3.9 HRMS EI calcd for CHO366.2042 found 366.2050.

2 Methoxy 6 3R 4S 5S 6S 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy propyl 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 15 . Diisobutylaluminum hydride 1.0 M in THF 2.2 mL 2.2 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 14 732 mg 2 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 20 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 78 C. and the mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of aqueous sat d potassium sodium tartrate 50 mL and stirring for 3 h at room temperature. Once the organic and aqueous layers separated the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of solvent under reduced pressure. The crude lactol obtained was used without further purification.

A solution of the lactol and PPTS 0.2 mmol in MeOH was stirred for 15 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and washed with sat d aqueous NaHCO 50 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 7 3 to provide the pure product each anomer 15 64 26 . 15 IR CHCl 3020 2858 2299 1514 1216 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.35 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.95 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.76 d 2H J 3.0 Hz 4.52 s 2H 4.37 d 1H J 4.6 Hz 4.09 m 1H 3.89 s 2H 3.57 m 2H 3.47 s 3H 3.32 t 1H J 5.7 Hz 1.89 1.71 m 6H 1.16 d 3H J 7.2 Hz 1.07 d 3H J 7.9 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.2 130.7 129.3 113.8 103.2 96.3 82.0 72.6 69.9 69.3 55.7 55.3 39.1 38.0 27.1 26.5 16.0 13.1 HRMS EI calcd for CHO382.2353 found 382.2355. 15 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.34 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.95 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.72 s 2H 4.70 d 1H J 2.8 Hz 4.52 s 2H 4.09 br m 4H 3.67 br s 1H 3.56 m 5H 3.44 s 3H 2.08 1.54 m 6H 1.11 d 3H J 3.0 Hz 1.08 d 3H J 2.9 Hz .

 2S 3S 4S 5R 6R 3 6 Methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl propionaldehyde 9b . A mixture of PMB ether 15 458 mg 1.2 mmol and palladium 10 Pd C 5 mg was stirred in EtOAc 12 mL for 3 h at room temperature under an Hatmosphere balloon filtered and concentrated to yield the debenzylated alcohol which was used without further purification.

The crude alcohol in CHCl 12 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 636 mg 1.5 mmol at room temperature. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 10 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 provided 274 mg 88 of the crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used without further purification H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.80 s 1H 4.67 dd 2H J 7.0 12.5 Hz 4.27 d 1H J 4.5 Hz 3.99 dd 1H J 3.5 4.0 Hz 3.36 s 6H 3.24 t 1H J 6.0 Hz 2.61 m 1H 2.52 m 1H 1.83 m 3H 1.68 m 1H 1.05 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 1.01 d 3H J 7.5 Hz .

 2S 3R 4S 5 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethylpentane 1 3 diol. MeOH 0.51 mL and LiBH 2.0 M in THF 6.2 mL 12.4 mmol were added dropwise to a stirred solution of aldol product 18 22 5.38 g 12.3 mmol in THF 50 mL at 0 C. After stirring for 1 h at 0 C. saturated aqueous sodium potassium tartrate 70 mL was added. The mixture was allowed to warm room temperature and extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 40 mL dried over anhydrous MgSO concentrated and flash column chromatographed hexane EtOAc 4 1 to yield 2.99 g 92 of the desired product as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3409 2958 2927 2853 2878 1469 1385 1361 1252 1082 838 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 4.45 br s 1H 3.54 br s 1H 1.92 m 1H 1.83 m 1H 1.06 d 3H J 6.98 Hz 1.00 s 9H 0.84 d 3H J 6.88 Hz 0.19 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 9.3 69.7 67.5 37.4 36.6 25.9 18.1 12.8 8.9 5.5 5.6 LRMS EI 263 M H HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi 263.2042 found 263.2042 35.5 c 0.85 CHCl .

 2S tert Butyl 4R 5S 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 methyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl propoxydimethylsilane 20 . A solution of the above diol 2.8 g 10.7 mmol p anisaldehyde dimethylacetal 2.0 mL 11.7 mmol and PPTS 0.27 g 1.1 mmol in benzene was heated to reflux for 3 h. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give 20 2.6 g 6.8 mmol in 64 yield IR CHCl 2955 2927 2853 1617 1518 1459 1382 1157 1101 1033 826 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.49 m 2H 6.98 m 2H 5.50 m 2H 3.89 s 3H 3.82 dd 1H J 10.9 4.9 Hz 3.76 dd 2H J 8.1 2.8 Hz 1.87 m 1H 1.71 m 1H 1.23 d 3H J 7.6 Hz 1.00 d 3H J 6.5 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.1 132.1 127.6 113.8 113.7 101.9 80.1 74.3 65.2 64.3 55.5 37.4 30.0 26.3 26.2 18.7 12.4 11.3 5.0 5.1 LRMS EI 323 207 187 157 145 121 75 HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi323.1678 M Bu found 323.1694 M Bu 33.6 c 1.24 CHCl .

 2S 2 4R 5S 2 4 Methoxyphenyl 5 methyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl propan 1 ol. TBAF 1.0M in THF 22 mL 22 mmol was added to a solution of 20 2.8 g 7.3 mmol in THF 70 mL at room temperature and the mixture was stirred for 2 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 100 mL and brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO Filtration and concentration followed by flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 7 3 provided alcohol 1.95 g 7.2 mmol as a yellow oil IR CHCl 3428 2964 2930 2835 1614 1512 1463 1391 1249 1098 1027 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.38 m 2H 6.87 m 2H 5.48 s 1H 4.11 dd 2H J 4.6 4.5 Hz 3.75 s 3H 3.73 m 2H 3.52 apparent t 1H J 11.1 Hz 2.08 m 1H 2.00 m 1H 1.04 d 3H J 7.1 Hz 0.77 d 3H J 6.7 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.0 131.5 127.4 113.6 101.6 83.4 73.9 66.3 55.2 36.8 30.4 11.9 9.9 LRMS EI 266 207 177 153 135 77 HRMS EI calcd for CHO266.1518 found 266.1517 4.8 c 0.67 CHCl .

 2S 2 4R 5S 2 4 Methoxyphenyl 5 methyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl propyltriphenyl 5 phosphane iodide 21 . I 4.48 g 17.6 mmol was added at 0 C. to a solution of the alcohol from above 2.35 g 8.82 mmol in CHCl 110 mL containing imidazole 1.32 g 19.4 mmol and triphenylphosphine 4.63 g 17.6 mmol . The resulting slurry was stirred for 1 h and quenched with saturated aqueous NaSO 10 mL . The organic layer was separated and washed with water 20 mL brine and dried over anhydrous MgSO. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 to give the pure iodide.

The iodide was quickly dissolved in benzene 44 mL PPhwas added 11.5 g 44.1 mmol and the mixture heated to reflux for 36 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and anhydrous ethyl ether 50 mL was added whereupon a white solid precipitated. Filtration followed by washing of the solid with ethyl ether 10 mL provided the phosphonium salt 4.5 g as a white foam IR CHCl 3054 2961 2909 1611 1515 1435 1246 1107 993 752 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.55 m 9H 7.37 m 6H 7.21 m 2H 6.65 m 1H 5.41 s 1H 3.95 d 1H J 10.2 Hz 3.68 d 2H J 12.3 Hz 3.54 s 3H 3.26 m 1H 1.85 m 1H 1.46 apparent d 1H J 6.5 Hz 0.78 d 3H J 6.8 Hz 0.44 d 3H J 6.6 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.0 135.2 135.1 133.7 133.5 131.1 130.5 130.4 127.9 119.0 117.9 113.5 101.9 82.3 82.1 73.2 55.5 30.7 29.2 25.3 15.7 10.4 HRMS EI calcd for CHOP 511.2402 found 511.2428 31.9 c 0.78 CHCl .

 4R 5R tert Butyl 3 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 methyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl propoxydimethylsilane 26 . Lithium borohydride 2.0 M in THF 25 mL 50 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 25 8.70 g 20 mmol and MeOH 1.61 mL 40 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 0 C. and then warmed to ambient temperature. After 2 h at room temperature the reaction was quenched with aqueous NHCl 100 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 7 3 to yield 4.97 g 95 of the diol as a colorless oil.

A solution of the diol 2.62 g 10 mmol anisaldehyde dimethyl acetal 2.00 g 11.0 mmol and PPTS 0.1 equiv in benzene was stirred for 15 h at reflux. The reaction mixture was quenched with aqueous sat d NaHCO 50 mL followed by washing with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 7 3 to provide the pure 26 in 72 yield IR CHCl 2992 1742 1373 1240 cm H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.43 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.88 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 5.45 s 1H 4.08 dd 2H J 10.5 29.9 Hz 3.90 br s 1H 3.80 s 3H 3.67 m 2H 1.67 1.50 m 5H 1.17 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 0.90 s 9H 0.06 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.9 131.6 127.4 113.6 101.7 79.7 73.9 63.1 55.3 31.8 29.3 28.7 26.0 18.4 11.1 5.1 LRMS ESI 402.68 M Na .

 4R 5S 4 1S 2Z 5 2S 3R 4S 5R 6R 6 Methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 1 methylpent 2 enyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 methyl 1 3 dioxane 35 . NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 1.1 mL 1.1 mmol was slowly added to a solution of the salt 21 701 mg 1.1 mmol in dry THF 2.2 mL at 0 C. The resulting red solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 9a 260 mg 1 mmol in THF 1 mL 2 was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h at room temperature the mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane ether 9 1 to yield 329 mg 67 of 35 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2922 2866 2628 2350 1740 1516 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.45 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.88 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 5.46 m 2H 5.30 t 1H J 9.9 Hz 4.77 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 4.70 d 1H J 1.8 Hz 4.63 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 4.06 br d 1H J 2.1 Hz 3.80 s 3H 3.54 m 3H 3.43 s 3H 3.32 s 3H 2.77 m 1H 2.31 dd 2H J 7.5 14.7 Hz 1.79 1.55 m 4H 1.22 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 1.02 d 3H J 7.2 Hz 0.96 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.86 d 3H J 6.9 Hz C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.7 133.4 131.8 130.1 127.3 113.3 101.5 101.3 95.9 83.5 82.0 75.2 73.9 56.4 55.7 55.2 37.6 34.2 33.6 33.0 30.0 23.4 16.1 13.3 11.2 9.9 HRMS EI calcd for CHO460.2824 found 460.2846.

 4R 5S 4 1S 2Z 5 2S 3S 4S 5R 6R 6 Methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 1 methylpent 2 enyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 methyl 1 3 dioxane 36 . NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 1.1 mL 1.1 mmol was slowly added to a solution of the salt 21 0.70 g 1.1 mmol in dry THF 2 mL at 0 C. The resulting red solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 9b 260 mg 1 mmol in THF 1 mL was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h at room temperature the reaction was quenched with saturated NHCl 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane ether 9 1 to yield 329 mg 67 of 36 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2922 2866 2628 2350 1740 1516 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.48 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 6.91 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 5.46 m 2H 5.32 t 1H J 9.6 Hz 4.73 s 2H 4.31 d 1H J 5.4 Hz 4.07 br s 2H 3.81 s 1H 3.57 dd 1H J 1.8 9.6 Hz 3.45 s 3H 3.43 s 3H 3.20 t 1H J 6.6 Hz 2.77 m 1H 2.31 2.17 m 2H 1.90 1.62 m 4H 1.24 0.98 m 12H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.7 133.7 131.7 129.4 127.2 113.4 102.8 101.5 96.6 83.5 82.2 73.9 70.0 55.7 55.2 39.8 38.4 33.6 30.0 29.9 24.3 15.9 15.5 13.2 11.1 HRMS EI calcd for CHO M HOCH 460.2824 found 460.2846.

 2R 3S 4S 5Z 3 4 Methoxybenzyloxy 8 2S 3R 4S 5R 6R 6 methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 4 dimethyloct 5 enal 37 . DIBAL 1.0 M in hexane 2.1 mL 2.1 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of the acetal 35 329 mg 0.67 mmol in dry CHCl 6.7 mL at 0 C. After stirring for 2 h the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium tartrate 20 mL followed by vigorously stirring for several hours. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL . The residue obtained after drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum was dissolved in anhydrous CHCl 6 mL and DMSO 12 mL treated with N N diisopropylethylamine 0.52 mL 3 mmol cooled to 0 C. and treated with pyridinium sulfur trioxide 477 mg 3 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h diluted with ethyl ether 50 mL and washed with aqueous HCl 0.5 N 50 mL and brine 10 ml . The separated organic layer was dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 provided the crude aldehyde 37 270 mg 0.55 mmol as a colorless oil which was used without further purification.

 2R 3S 4S 5Z 3 4 Methoxybenzyloxy 8 2S 3S 4S 5R 6R 6 methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 4 dimethyloct 5 enal 38 . DIBAL 1.0 M in hexane 2.1 mL 2.1 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of the acetal 36 329 mg 0.67 mmol in dry CHCl 6.7 mL at 0 C. After the mixture was stirred for 2 h the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium tartrate 20 mL followed by vigorous stirring for several hours. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum the residue was used for the next reaction without further purification. The crude alcohol in CHCl 13 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 340.8 mg 0.80 mmol . After the reaction was complete the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 10 mL and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 9 1 provided crude aldehyde 38 267 mg 81 as a colorless oil which was used without further purification.

 2S 3R 6 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 methylhexanal 27 . DIBAL 1.0 M in THF 15 mL 15 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 26 1.90 g 5 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 50 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of aqueous sat d potassium sodium tartrate 100 mL and stirring for 3 h at room temperature. Once the aqueous and organic layers separated the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The crude alcohol 1.56 g 4.1 mmol was used without further purification.

Pyridinium sulfur trioxide 2.38 g 15 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the crude alcohol from above and diisopropylethylamine 2.6 mL 15 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 10 mL and DMSO 20 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h. After the reaction was complete the mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 100 mL and washed with aqueous HCl 0.5 N 100 mL and brine 100 ml . The separated organic layer was dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 4 1 to remove SO pyridine provided the crude aldehyde 27 as a colorless oil which was used without further purification.

 2R 3R 4R 5R 8 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 3 hydroxy 5 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 4 dimethyloctanoic acid 2 6 dimethylphenyl ester 29 . LDA 2M in THF 3.1 mL 6.2 mmol was added to a solution of 2 6 dimethylphenoxy propionate 1.10 g 6.2 mmol in anhydrous THF 12.4 mL at 78 C. followed by stirring for 1 h at 78 C. The crude aldehyde 27 4.1 mmol from above dissolved in anhydrous THF 10 mL was added slowly at 78 C. After 2 h at room temperature the mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 4 1 to yield 29 1.67 g 2.99 mmol as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3120 2857 1744 1514 1216 1099 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.26 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.87 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 4.62 d 1H J 11.1 Hz 4.40 d 1H J 11.1 Hz 4.06 d 1H J 6.8 Hz 3.79 s 3H 3.66 3.61 m 3H 2.89 m 1H 2.19 s 6H 1.86 m 2H 1.55 m 3H 1.27 d 3H J 6.8 Hz 1.01 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.93 s 9H 0.07 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 173.5 159.2 148.0 130.0 129.9 129.4 128.4 125.6 113.8 83.5 70.7 62.9 55.1 44.0 35.6 28.7 26.6 25.8 18.2 16.3 14.2 5.7 5.3 HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi 558.3377 found 558.3392.

 2S 3S 4R 5R 3 8 Bis tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 5 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 4 dimethyloctan 1 ol. TBDMSOTf 0.68 mL 3 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 29 1.11 g 2 mmol and 2 6 lutidine 0.69 mL 6 mmol in CHCl 20 mL at 78 C. The mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction was quenched by the addition of aqueous HCl 0.5 N 50 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl dried over MgSOand the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Short column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 provided the crude product.

DIBAL 1.0 M in THF 6 mL 6 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of the TBS protected aryl ester 1.90 g 2 mmol from above in anhydrous CHCl 20 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for additional 1 h at 0 C. The reaction was quenched by the careful addition of aqueous sat d potassium sodium tartrate 50 mL . The mixture was stirred for 3 h at room temperature. Once the aqueous and organic layers had separated the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 20 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography EtOAc hexane EtOAc 3 7 to give pure 997 mg 1.8 mmol IR CHCl 3125 1544 1289 1065 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.28 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.89 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 4.51 d 1H J 11.1 4.41 d 1H J 10.8 Hz 3.83 d 3H 3.79 m 1H 3.64 m 4H 3.36 m 1H 2.45 br s 1H 1.93 m 2H 1.63 m 4H 1.00 d 2H J 7.0 Hz 0.92 s 24H 0.14 s 6H 0.13 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.1 130.6 129.4 113.6 80.3 76.0 71.2 65.2 63.0 55.1 39.1 39.0 29.0 27.1 26.1 25.9 18.2 14.5 11.6 3.6 3.9 5.3 LRMS ESI 576.8 M Na .

 2R 3S 4R 5R 3 8 Bis tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 5 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 4 dimethyloctanal 30 . Pyridinium sulfurtrioxide 858 mg 5.4 mmol was added to a stirred solution of alcohol 997 mg 1.8 mmol from above and diisopropylethylamine 0.94 mL 5.4 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 3.6 mL and DMSO 7.2 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h. After the reaction was complete the mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 50 mL and washed with aqueous HCl 0.5N 50 mL and brine 10 ml . The organic layer was dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 4 1 to remove SO pyridine provided the crude aldehyde 30 as a colorless oil which was used without further purification H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.69 s 1H 7.22 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 6.85 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 4.45 d 1H J 11.1 Hz 4.28 d 1H J 11.1 Hz 3.94 dd 1H J 5.5 4.0 Hz 3.79 s 3H 3.60 t 2H J 6.0 Hz 3.40 3.34 m 1H 2.66 2.58 m 1H 1.92 1.84 m 1H 1.67 1.59 m 2H 1.55 1.45 m 2H 1.02 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 0.98 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 0.89 s 9H 0.86 s 9H 0.05 s 3H 0.04 s 9H .

 1R 2R 3S 4S 5Z 1 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 1 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy propyl 2 4 dimethylocta 5 7 dienyloxymethyl 4 methoxybenzene 32 . CrCl 1.09 g 9.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the crude aldehyde 1.8 mmol from above and 1 bromoallyl trimethylsilane 31 578 mg 5.4 mmol in anhydrous THF 18 mL under an atmosphere of Nat room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 14 h at ambient temperature then diluted with ethyl ether followed by filtration through Celite. After the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure the residue was purified by short silica gel column chromatography CHCl . The resulting residue was used without further purification.

The above product in THF 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. and NaH 95 w w 207 mg 9.0 mmol was added in one portion. The ice bath was removed after 15 min and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with HO 10 mL and extracted with ethyl ether 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 to give pure 32 622 mg 1.2 mmol IR CHCl 2954 2931 2857 1608 1513 1463 1251 1098 1047 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.35 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 6.96 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 6.41 ddd 1H J 16.7 11.0 10.1 Hz 6.04 dd 1H J 11.1 11.0 Hz 5.57 dd 1H J 10.1 16.8 Hz 5.20 d 1H J 16.7 Hz 5.06 d 1H J 10.1 Hz 4.51 d 1H J 11.3 Hz 4.35 d 1H J 11.3 Hz 3.81 s 3H 3.63 3.57 m 3H 3.28 dt 1H J 5.5 5.5 Hz 2.70 ddq 1H J 10.3 6.9 3.2 Hz 1.73 1.58 m 3H 1.50 1.44 m 2H 0.94 d 3H J 6.9 Hz 0.93 0.91 m 21H 0.06 s 6H 0.05 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.1 134.8 132.5 131.0 129.5 128.9 117.1 113.7 78.9 76.6 70.7 63.2 55.2 40.0 36.4 31.6 28.7 26.2 26.0 18.9 18.5 18.3 10.9 3.3 3.4 5.3 LRMS EI 576 519 467 387 357 293 225 121 HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi519.3326 found 519.3332 18.80 c 0.75 CHCl .

 2R 2 4R 5S 6R 6 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy propyl 2 2 5 trimethyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl propionic acid 2 6 dimethylphenyl ester 34 . A mixture of PMB ether 29 55.8 mg 0.1 mmol and palladium 10 Pd C 5 mg in EtOAc 10 mL was stirred at room temperature under an Hatmosphere balloon for 3 h. The mixture was filtered and concentrated to yield the diol which was used without further purification. A solution of the crude diol dimethyl dimethyl acetal 12.4 mg 0.12 mmol and PPTS 0.1 equiv. in benzene was stirred for 5 h at 65 C. The reaction was quenched with aqueous sat d NaHCO 50 mL followed by washing with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 to provide the pure 34 in 52 yield IR CHCl 2855 1742 1510 1091 cm H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.03 br s 3H 4.20 dd 1H J 1.7 10.2 Hz 3.91 m 1H 3.64 m 2H 2.91 dq 1H J 10.2 6.9 Hz 2.16 s 6H 1.59 1.32 m 6H 1.41 s 3H 1.39 s 3H 1.24 d 3H J 4.2 Hz 0.92 br s 12H 0.06 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 173.7 148.2 130.3 128.5 125.8 99.1 75.2 73.0 63.1 42.3 31.8 29.9 29.3 28.8 26.0 19.5 18.4 16.4 12.9 4.54 5.19 HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi 478.3115 found 463.2889 M CH .

 1S 2S 3R 6Z 8S 9S 10S 11z 3 9 Bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 14 2S 3S 4S 5R 6R 6 methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 8 10 trimethyl 1 1S 2Z 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl tetradeca 6 11 dienyloxy tert butyldimethylsilane. NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 0.54 mL 0.54 mmol was added slowly to a solution of the salt 33 475.9 mg 0.54 mmol in dry THF 1.08 mL at 0 C. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 38 267 mg 0.54 mmol in THF 0.54 mL 2 was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h at room temperature the mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and chromatographed hexane EtOAc 9 1 to yield the desired compound 257 mg 0.28 mmol as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2920 2861 2620 1740 1520 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.38 m 4H 6.96 m 4H 6.47 ddd 1H J 16.8 11.0 10.1 Hz 6.04 t 1H J 11.1 Hz 5.57 t 1H J 10.5 Hz 5.49 5.12 m 6H 4.75 d 2H J 2.1 Hz 4.67 4.33 m 5H 4.07 m 1H 3.65 dd 1H J 3.3 6.0 Hz 3.47 br s 7H 3.35 dd 1H J 4.5 4.7 Hz 3.27 t 1H J 6.6 Hz 3.15 dd 1H J 4.5 6.9 Hz 2.77 m 3H 2.18 m 2H 1.91 m 2H 1.74 1.62 m 4H 1.11 0.99 m 18H 0.12 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.2 159.0 134.7 133.7 132.9 132.5 131.4 131.0 129.6 129.1 128.9 128.6 117.3 113.8 113.7 103.0 96.5 88.0 82.1 78.8 74.9 70.8 69.7 55.8 55.3 40.0 39.5 38.3 35.6 35.4 31.3 30.3 26.4 24.2 23.7 19.0 18.8 18.6 17.3 15.7 13.2 11.0 3.1 3.2 LRMS ESI 942.5 M Na .

Carbamic acid 1S 2S 3R 6Z 8S 9S 10S 11Z 3 9 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 14 2S 3S 4S 5R 6R 6 methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 8 10 trimethyl 1 1S 2Z 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl tetradeca 6 11 dienyl ester 39 . The above compound 128.5 mg 0.14 mmol in THF 4 mL was treated with TBAF 1.0 M in THF 0.40 mL 0.40 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 30 mL and washed with water 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum the resulting alcohol was used without further purification.

A solution of the alcohol in CHCl 8 mL at 0 C. was treated with trichloroacetylisocyanate 0.05 mL 0.42 mmol and stirred at room temperature. After 30 min the solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was taken up in MeOH 4 mL . KCO 50 mg was added to this solution and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO. Filtration and concentration followed by flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 3 2 provided carbamate 39 84.9 mg 72 as a yellow oil IR CHCl 3100 3019 2430 2286 1720 1524 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.41 m 4H 7.01 m 4H 6.46 ddd 1H J 16.8 11.0 10.1 Hz 6.11 t 1H J 10.8 Hz 5.62 t 1H J 10.5 Hz 5.53 5.18 m 6H 4.94 t 1H J 6.0 Hz 4.84 br s 2H 4.81 d 2H J 2.1 Hz 4.71 4.45 m 4H 4.39 d 1H J 5.1 Hz 4.12 m 1H 3.37 m 2H 3.19 dd 1H J 4.5 6.9 Hz 2.90 m 3H 2.27 m 2H 1.91 m 2H 1.74 1.61 m 4H 1.11 0.99 m 18H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.2 159.0 157.1 133.7 133.3 132.8 132.2 131.4 130.9 129.8 129.6 129.1 128.5 117.8 113.8 113.7 102.9 96.5 88.0 82.1 78.4 78.1 74.9 70.5 69.8 55.8 55.7 55.3 39.5 38.2 37.7 35.8 35.4 34.3 30.6 30.3 24.2 23.6 18.9 17.8 17.4 15.7 13.2 9.8 LRMS ESI 888.4 M K .

Carbamic acid 1S 2S 3R 6Z 8S 9S 10S 11Z 3 9 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 14 2S 3S 4S 5R 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyl 6 oxotetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 8 10 trimethyl 1 1S 2Z 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl tetradeca 6 11 dienyl ester. A solution of 39 42.4 mg 0.05 mmol in THF 0.5 mL and 60 aqueous acetic acid 2.5 mL was stirred at 70 C. for 4 h. After the reaction was complete by TLC the mixture was neutralized slowly with saturated aqueous KCOand diluted with EtOAc 20 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude lactol was used for the next reaction without further purification.

Dess Martin periodinane reagent 31.8 mg 0.075 mmol was added to a solution of the lactol in CHCl 5 mL . The resultant solution was stirred for 1 h and quenched by the simultaneous addition of saturated aqueous NaSO 5 mL and saturated aqueous NaHCO. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 10 mL and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 8 2 provided 28.3 mg 68 of the lactone as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2992 2361 2332 1742 1374 1242 1047 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.40 m 4H 7.03 m 4H 6.51 ddd 1H J 16.8 11.1 10.0 Hz 6.11 t 1H J 11.1 Hz 5.67 t 1H J 10.8 Hz 5.52 5.18 m 7H 4.94 t 1H J 6.0 Hz 4.87 4.47 m 9H 3.94 br s 4H 3.93 s 3H 3.54 s 3H 3.40 m 2H 3.19 dd 1H J 4.5 6.9 Hz 2.87 m 2H 2.72 m 2H 2.32 1.89 m 7H 1.45 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 1.15 01.02 m 15H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 174.2 159.2 159.0 156.9 133.6 133.5 133.4 132.2 131.3 130.9 129.8 129.6 129.5 129.2 128.7 127.8 113.8 113.7 95.4 88.0 82.7 79.9 78.4 76.5 75.0 55.9 55.7 55.3 40.5 38.6 37.7 36.0 35.4 34.3 31.3 30.6 23.9 23.6 23.5 19.0 17.8 14.4 12.1 9.8 LRMS ESI 872.4 M K .

Carbamic acid 1S 2S 3R 6Z 8S 9S 10S 11z 3 9 dihydroxy 14 2S 3S 4S 5R 4 hydroxy 3 5 dimethyl 6 oxotetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 8 10 trimethyl 1 1S 2Z 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl tetradeca 6 11 dienyl ester 40 . A solution of the above lactone 2.83 mg 0.005 mmol in THF 2 mL was treated with aqueous 4N HCl 1 mL . The flask was fitted with a glass stopper and the resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 48 h. Saturated aqueous KCOwas added dropwise followed by EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc and the combined extracts were dried over MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by simple short flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane ether 3 2 provided the crude MOM deprotected compound. A solution of PMB ether in CHCl 2 mL at 0 C. was treated with NaHCO 4.2 mg 0.5 mmol . After 1 h the mixture was diluted with CHCland washed with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCland the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO Filtration and concentration followed by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 3 2 provided carbamate 40 1.1 mg 0.002 mmol as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2995 2937 2323 1755 1449 1374 1242 1049 cm H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 6.63 ddd 1H J 16.8 11.0 10.1 Hz 6.06 t 1H J 11.0 Hz 5.46 5.32 m 5H 5.25 d 1H J 17 Hz 5.14 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 4.94 t 1H J 6.0 Hz 4.74 9 m 1H 4.60 br s 1H 4.54 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.38 d 1H J 5.0 Hz 3.27 t 1H J 6.0 Hz 3.00 m 1H 2.78 m 1H 2.63 m 2H 2.18 m 1H 2.01 m 1H 1.83 m 1H 1.77 m 1H 1.35 d 3H J 7.0 1.01 0.93 m 15H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 174.2 157.3 133.6 132.9 129.6 128.9 125.0 121.4 118.0 95.5 82.6 79.7 79.2 72.8 55.9 40.5 39.9 38.6 35.4 34.7 31.6 23.8 19.2 18.2 17.7 15.7 14.8 12.0 LRMS ESI 571.4 M Ka HRMS ESI calcd for CHNONa 588.3303 found 588.3336 M K 34.0 c 0.05 CHCl .

Carbamic acid 1S 2S 3R 6Z 8S 9S 10S 11Z 3 9 dihydroxy 14 2S 3S 4S 5R 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyl 6 oxotetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 8 10 trimethyl 1 1S 2Z 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl tetradeca 6 11 dienyl ester 41 . Carbamate 39 8.49 mg 0.01 mmol was subjected to the lactonization procedure described above. The removal of the PMB protecting group was accomplished by treating with NaHCOand DDQ. Flash chromatography EtOAc hexane 3 2 provided 41 2.9 mg 49 overall 3 steps as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3404 2362 1749 1373 1241 1049 cm H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 6.62 ddd 1H J 16.8 11.0 10.1 Hz 6.04 t 1H J 11.0 Hz 5.48 5.33 m 5H 5.24 d 1H J 17 Hz 5.13 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 4.77 4.60 br m 5H 4.48 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.41 s 3H 3.28 d 1H J 7.0 Hz 3.23 t 1H J 5.5 Hz 3.02 m 1H 2.62 m 2H 2.25 2.18 m 3H 2.04 m 2H 1.90 m 1H 1.88 m 1H 1.83 m 1H 1.77 1.67 m 2H 1.51 m 2H 1.34 d 3H J 7.0 1.02 0.92 m 15H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 174.1 157.3 133.6 132.9 132.2 129.6 128.9 125.0 121.4 118.0 95.5 82.6 79.7 79.2 72.8 55.9 40.5 39.8 38.6 35.4 34.9 34.7 31.6 23.8 19.2 18.2 17.2 15.7 14.8 12.0 LRMS ESI 616.3 M Na HRMS ESI calcd for CHNONa 616.3825 found 616.3829 M Na 59.0 c 0.1 CHCl .

Carbamic acid 1S 2S 3R 6Z 8S 9S 10S 11Z 3 9 dihydroxy 14 2S 3S 4S 5R 6R 6 methoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 3 5 dimethyltetrahydropyran 2 yl 2 8 10 trimethyl 1 1S 2Z 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl tetradeca 6 11 dienyl ester 42 . Carbamate 39 4.25 mg 0.005 mmol was subjected to the deprotection procedure of PMB described in the preparation of 40. Flash chromatography EtOAc hexane 3 2 of the crude product provided 42 2.8 mg 92 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3115 2749 2328 1676 1508 1215 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.76 ddd 1H J 16.8 11.0 10.1 Hz 6.18 t 1H J 10.8 Hz 5.70 5.46 m 5H 5.35 d 1H J 16.8 Hz 4.49 dd J 4.5 6.6 Hz 4.82 d 2H J 2.4 Hz 4.73 br s 2H 4.43 d 1H J 5.1 Hz 4.15 m 1H 3.78 m 1H 3.56 s 3H 3.54 s 3H 3.36 t 2H J 6.9 Hz 3.14 m 1H 2.76 m 2H 2.35 2.18 m 6H 2.00 1.60 m 7H 1.22 d 3H J 7.2 Hz 1.16 1.12 m 12H 1.07 d 3H J 7.2 Hz C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 157.3 133.7 133.5 132.2 132.0 130.0 128.7 118.0 109.6 103.0 96.5 82.1 79.7 79.1 72.7 55.8 39.9 39.5 38.3 35.5 35.0 34.8 34.6 30.2 29.8 24.3 18.1 17.7 15.7 15.4 14.2 13.2 8.1 LRMS ESI 632.4 M Na HRMS ESI calcd for CHNONa 632.4138 found 632.4139 21.6 c 0.25 CHCl .

 12S 13S 14S 19R 20R 21R 22S 21 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 13 19 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 12 14 20 22 tetramethylhexacosa 10 15 23 25 tetraen 1 tert Butyldimethylsilanyl ol 45 . NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 0.45 mL 0.45 mmol was slowly added to a solution of the salt 21 322 mg 1.1 mmol in dry THF 0.3 mL at 0 C. The resulting red solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 44 120 mg 0.42 mmol in THF 0.1 mL 2 was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl 5 mL and extracted with ethyl ether 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and the residue was column chromatographed hexane ether 9 1 to yield 163 mg 75 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2928 2854 1617 1517 1462 1390 1249 1114 1035 833 726 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.44 7.38 m 2H 6.90 6.85 m 2H 5.42 s 1H 5.39 ddd J 11.7 10.2 7.2 Hz 1H 5.24 apparent t J 10.2 Hz 1H 4.08 4.00 m 2H 3.79 s 3H 3.61 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 3.54 dd J 10.5 1.9 Hz 1H 2.69 dd J 16.1 9.2 Hz 1H 2.04 apparent d J 6.6 Hz 2H 1.71 1.68 m 1H 1.54 1.50 m 3H 1.27 br 1H 1.20 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.91 s 9H 0.06 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.0 133.3 132.6 132.5 132.1 130.7 128.9 128.7 127.6 113.7 101.8 83.9 74.2 63.6 55.5 33.9 33.3 30.4 30.1 30.0 29.9 29.8 29.7 28.0 26.3 26.2 18.7 16.3 11.5 4.9 LRMS API ES 541 M Na 493 431 365 295 251 26.0 c 0.90 CHCl .

To a solution of 164 mg 0.32 mmol of the above acetal in dry CHCl 2.0 mL DIBAL 1.0 M in hexane 0.95 mL 0.96 mmol at 0 C. was added dropwise. After 2 h the mixture was quenched with saturated sodium potassium tartrate solution 20 mL followed by vigorously stirring for 4 h. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum flash column chromatography hexane ether 9 1 provided 115 mg 70 of alcohol as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3430 2928 2855 1613 1514 1463 1249 1098 1038 835 776 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.28 7.25 m 2H 6.88 6.85 m 2H 4.59 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 4.47 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 3.80 s 3H 3.65 3.50 m 4H 3.36 dd J 5.9 3.9 Hz 1H 2.86 2.78 m 1H 2.11 2.01 m 2H 1.98 1.95 m 1H 1.77 br 1H 1.50 br 3H 1.27 br 1H 0.97 apparent t J 7.1 Hz 6H 0.90 s 9H 0.05 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.2 132.8 131.1 130.0 129.5 113.8 84.5 73.7 66.4 63.5 55.3 37.6 34.6 33.0 29.8 29.7 29.64 29.61 29.5 27.7 26.1 25.9 18.8 18.4 11.7 5.1 LRMS EI 541 M Na 462 375 325 255 207 122 HRMS ELI calcd for CHOSi463.3254 M Bu found 463.3254 25.9 c 0.48 CHCl .

The above alcohol 94 mg 0.18 mmol in CHCl 2 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 120 mg 0.27 mmol . After 2 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 10 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided 78 mg 83 of the crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 0.15 mL 0.15 mmol was slowly added to a solution of the salt 33 140 mg 0.17 mmol in dry THF 0.15 mL at 0 C. The resulting red solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde above 69 mg 0.13 mmol in THF 0.05 mL 2 was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h at room temperature the mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl 2 mL and extracted with ethyl ether 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and the residue was purified by column chromatography hexane ether 9 1 to yield 45 111 mg 65 for 2 steps as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2926 1612 1513 1462 1361 1250 1173 1098 836 774 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.40 7.33 m 4H 6.99 6.93 m 4H 6.49 ddd J 16.8 10.8 10.7 Hz 1H 6.06 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.59 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 5.51 d J 9.8 Hz 1H 5.44 5.31 m 3H 5.23 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.13 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 4.68 4.57 m 3H 4.42 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.90 s 6H 3.69 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 3.37 3.36 m 1H 3.14 q J 3.7 Hz 1H 2.82 2.71 m 2H 2.08 2.00 m 4H 1.78 1.77 m 2H 1.71 1.58 m 6H 1.36 br 11H 1.11 d J 6.7 Hz 6H 1.04 1.00 m 24H 0.15 s 12H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.3 159.1 134.8 133.8 132.5 132.0 131.5 131.1 129.9 129.7 129.2 129.1 128.6 117.3 113.8 113.7 88.1 79.1 74.8 71.0 63.4 55.4 40.1 36.6 35.8 35.3 33.0 31.5 30.0 29.8 29.7 29.6 27.7 26.4 26.1 23.8 19.0 18.9 18.5 17.6 11.1 3.2 3.3 5.1 LRMS EI 890 M Bu 866 HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi865.5258 M Bu found 865.5225 20.5 c 0.60 CHCl .

 12S 13S 14S 19R 20R 21R 22S 21 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 13 19 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 12 14 20 22 tetramethylhexacosa 10 15 23 25 tetraenoic acid 46 . To a solution of TBS ether 45 93 mg 0.098 mmol in THF 2 ml was slowly added HF pyridine in pyridine 4 ml prepared by slow addition of 1.2 ml pyridine to 0.3 ml HF pyridine complex followed by dilution with 3 ml THF . The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and quenched with sat d NaHCO 20 ml . The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 3 10 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with sat d CuSO 3 20 ml dried over MgSO and concentrated. Flash column chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 4 afforded 64 mg 78 of the alcohol IR CHCl 3429 2928 2855 1694 1612 1513 1462 1250 1173 1038 836 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.40 7.33 m 4H 6.99 6.95 m 4H 6.49 ddd J 16.8 10.6 10.5 Hz 1H 6.05 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.58 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.52 d J 9.7 Hz 1H 5.46 5.34 m 2H 5.23 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.14 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 4.68 4.57 m 3H 4.45 4.41 m 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.88 s 3H 3.72 3.67 m 2H 3.37 3.36 m 2H 3.14 q J 3.6 Hz 1H 2.80 2.70 m 2H 2.08 1.99 m 4H 1.78 1.77 m 2H 1.71 1.58 m 6H 1.36 br 11H 1.10 d J 6.6 Hz 6H 1.02 d J 2.6 Hz 6H 1.00 s 9H 0.15 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.3 159.1 134.8 134.8 133.8 132.5 132.1 131.5 131.1 129.9 129.7 129.2 129.1 128.6 117.3 113.8 113.7 88.1 79.0 76.7 74.8 71.0 63.1 55.4 40.1 36.6 35.8 35.4 32.9 31.4 30.0 29.7 29.63 29.56 27.6 26.4 25.9 23.8 19.0 18.9 18.6 17.6 11.1 3.2 3.3 LRMS API ES 871 M K 445 364 338 27.0 c 0.24 CHCl .

The above alcohol 0.213 g 0.26 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 160 mg 0.38 mmol . After 2 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 10 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 8 2 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided the aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. A solution of the above aldehyde in 1 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of HO was treated with 0.74 ml 1.48 mmol of a 2M solution of 2 methyl 2 butene in THF 0.11 g 0.77 mmol of NaHPOHO and 0.087 g 0.77 mmol of NaClO. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h diluted with 20 ml of 1N HCl and extracted with CHCl 2 20 ml . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO concentrated in vacuo and the residue was chromatographed on SiO EtOAc hexane 1 3 to yield 192 mg 89 for 2 steps of the acid 46 as a viscous oil IR CHCl 3398 2929 2855 1710 1612 1513 1249 1040 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.46 7.40 m 4H 7.05 6.99 m 4H 6.55 ddd J 16.8 10.6 10.3 Hz 1H 6.12 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.66 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 5.58 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.52 5.37 m 3H 5.30 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.21 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.74 4.64 m 3H 4.52 4.48 m 1H 3.95 s 6H 3.72 dd J 6.2 3.3 Hz 1H 3.43 dd J 10.5 5.9 Hz 1H 3.21 q J 3.8 Hz 1H 2.87 2.77 m 3H 2.49 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.15 2.09 m 4H 1.87 1.70 m 5H 1.43 br 11H 1.17 d J 6.8 Hz 6H 1.10 d J 3.0 Hz 6H 1.07 s 9H 0.22 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 180.06 159.3 159.1 134.8 133.8 132.5 132.1 131.5 131.1 129.8 129.7 129.2 129.1 128.6 117.3 113.8 113.7 88.1 79.0 76.7 74.8 70.9 55.4 40.1 36.6 35.8 35.4 34.2 31.4 29.9 29.5 29.3 29.2 27.6 26.4 24.8 23.8 19.0 18.9 18.6 17.6 11.1 3.2 3.3 LRMS API ES 846 M 845 M H 24.5 c 0.38 CHCl .

 1S 13S 14S 15S 20R 21R 22R 14 20 Dihydroxy 13 15 21 trimethyl 22 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl oxacyclodocosa 11 16 dien 2 one 43 . To 46 146 mg 0.17 mmol in THF 2 mL was added TBAF 1.0 M in THF 1.72 mL 1.72 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 48 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl ether 30 mL and was washed with water 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum the crude was chromatographed on SiO EtOAc hexane 1 4 to yield 72 mg 57 of the acid as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3467 2927 2854 1710 1612 1513 1460 1248 1174 1036 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.39 7.32 m 4H 6.98 6.93 m 4H 6.69 ddd J 16.7 10.7 10.6 Hz 1H 6.18 apparent t J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.57 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 5.50 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.46 5.37 m 3H 5.30 d J 17.2 Hz 1H 5.19 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 4.69 4.58 m 3H 4.47 4.44 m 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 3.58 3.56 m 2H 3.16 q J 3.5 Hz 1H 2.86 2.79 m 2H 2.73 2.70 m 1H 2.42 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 2.14 2.02 m 4H 1.91 1.89 m 1H 1.81 1.71 m 4H 1.37 br 11H 1.12 d J 6.6 Hz 6H 1.07 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.01 d J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 179.6 159.3 159.1 135.6 134.1 132.4 132.0 131.4 130.4 130.1 129.9 129.6 129.3 128.3 117.9 113.9 113.8 88.1 83.0 78.2 74.9 71.0 55.4 36.7 36.2 36.1 35.4 34.1 30.6 29.9 29.8 29.5 29.3 29.2 27.6 24.8 23.7 19.0 17.7 17.5 6.9 LRMS API ES 755.5 M Na 866 31.3 c 0.64 CHCl .

A solution of above hydroxy acid 60 mg 0.081 mmol in THF 1 ml was treated at 0 C. with EtN 0.068 ml 0.49 mmol and 2 4 6 trichlorobenzoyl chloride 0.064 ml 0.41 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min and then added to a 4 DMAP 41 ml 0.81 mmol 0.02 M solution in toluene at 25 C. and stirred for overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated EtOAc 10 mL was added and the crude was washed with 1N HCl 2 10 ml dried over MgSO. Purification by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 9 furnished macrolactone 33 mg 57 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2926 2855 1730 1612 1513 1459 1248 1174 1109 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.41 7.35 m 4H 6.98 6.94 m 4H 6.55 ddd J 16.5 10.9 10.6 Hz 1H 6.06 apparent t J 10.8 Hz 1H 5.66 apparent t J 10.0 Hz 1H 5.48 5.29 m 4H 5.24 d J 6.9 Hz 1H 5.16 d J 10.3 Hz 1H 5.01 dd J 7.5 3.5 Hz 1H 4.66 4.53 m 3H 4.43 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.85 s 3H 3.20 3.18 m 1H 3.13 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 2.97 2.89 m 1H 2.76 2.64 m 2H 2.37 2.19 m 3H 2.04 1.98 m 4H 1.78 1.57 m 4H 1.38 br 11H 1.16 1.10 m 9H 0.99 d J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 173.4 159.6 159.3 134.4 133.7 132.5 131.8 131.4 131.0 130.2 130.0 129.9 129.4 129.3 118.0 114.2 114.0 89.0 80.6 76.6 75.7 72.0 55.6 38.3 37.5 36.1 34.9 34.7 31.7 30.0 29.6 29.0 28.8 28.7 27.2 25.1 24.5 20.0 18.8 17.4 10.4 HRMS EI calcd for CHO714.4859 found 714.4848 5.8 c 0.39 CHCl .

The above macrolactone 12 mg 16. mol was dissolved in CHCl 2 ml HO 0.2 ml and DDQ 12 mg 53 mol was added at 0 C. After 1 h of stirring at 0 C. the reaction mixture was quenched by adding sat d NaHCO 5 ml . The organic phase was washed by sat d NaHCOsolution 3 20 ml and brine dried over MgSOand concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 4 furnished macrolactone 6.8 mg 85 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3434 2926 2854 2359 2341 1731 1651 1505 1456 1377 1261 1107 965 905 803 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.75 dt J 16.8 10.9 Hz 1H 6.13 t J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.60 5.56 m 1H 5.54 5.46 m 2H 5.42 5.30 m 3H 5.25 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 5.08 dd J 8.9 2.6 Hz 1H 3.49 ddd J 9.5 7.4 2.8 Hz 1H 3.37 dd J 7.3 4.3 Hz 1H 3.18 3.05 m 1H 2.86 2.74 m 2H 2.43 2.30 m 3H 2.23 2.05 m 2H 1.84 br 9H 1.42 br 9H 1.23 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.19 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.17 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.11 d J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 173.4 134.6 132.4 131.9 130.5 129.9 129.8 129.1 117.9 80.1 76.4 72.9 40.0 36.9 35.4 34.8 34.6 34.5 29.0 28.6 28.4 28.3 28.1 26.9 24.8 24.2 18.9 18.8 17.1 9.6 HRMS EI calcd for CHO456.3603 M OH found 456.3622 29.0 c 0.10 CHCl .

 12S 13S 14S 19R 20R 21R 22S 12 14 20 22 Tetramethylhexacosa 10 15 23 25 tetraene 1 13 19 21 tetraol 47 . The protected alcohol 45 54 mg 57 mol was dissolved in CHCl 3 ml HO 0.3 ml and DDQ 39 mg 0.17 mmol was added at 0 C. After 1 h of stirring at 0 C. the reaction mixture was quenched by adding sat d NaHCO 10 ml . The organic phase was washed by sat d NaHCOsolution 3 20 ml and brine dried over MgSOand concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 9 furnished the diol 20 mg 53 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3434 2958 2924 2853 2362 1463 1382 1246 1095 1021 832 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.58 ddd J 16.7 10.7 10.6 Hz 1H 6.05 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.62 t J 10.3 Hz 1H 5.55 5.45 m 1H 5.41 5.27 m 3H 5.21 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 5.14 d J 10.2 Hz 1H 3.74 3.72 m 1H 3.65 3.63 m 1H 3.60 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.20 dd J 6.1 5.4 Hz 1H 2.96 2.91 m 1H 2.69 2.56 m 2H 2.17 1.95 m 4H 1.60 1.51 m 8H 1.27 br 11H 1.03 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.97 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.92 s 11H 0.90 s 10H 0.10 s 3H 0.08 s 3H 0.06 s 6H LRMS API ES 729.5 M Na 557.5 413 243 48.0 c 0.025 CHCl .

To an above solution 20 mg 28 mol in THF 1 mL was added TBAF 1.0 M in THF 0.28 mL 0.28 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and was washed with water 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum the crude was chromatographed on SiO EtOAc hexane 1 3 to yield 11 mg 83 of the alcohol 47 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3378 2925 2853 2359 1651 1455 1377 1056 971 903 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl tilde over . ddd J 16.8 10.6 10.5 Hz 1H 6.21 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.54 5.46 m 1H 5.43 5.36 m 2H 5.31 5.18 m 4H 3.84 dd J 7.3 4.6 Hz 1H 3.65 apparent t J 6.6 Hz 2H 3.46 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 3.22 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 2.86 2.78 m 1H 2.72 2.59 m 2H 2.23 2.02 m 4H 1.71 1.53 m 8H 1.29 1.26 m 13H 1.01 0.91 m 12H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 134.5 133.8 132.2 132.1 131.9 131.3 128.9 119.1 80.6 79.1 76.1 63.2 53.6 37.6 36.4 35.5 35.1 34.5 32.9 29.8 29.6 29.5 29.4 27.7 25.8 24.2 18.1 16.7 15.3 4.5 LRMS API ES 517 M K 501 M Na 479 M H 461 M H HO 443 43.3 c 0.18 CHCl .

 12S 13S 14S 19R 20R 21R 22S 13 19 21 Trihydroxy 12 14 20 22 tetramethylhexacosa 10 15 23 25 tetraenoic acid methyl ester 48 . To an acid 46 34 mg mol in DMF 3 ml KCO 0.017 g 0.12 mmol and MeI 0.009 ml 0.06 mmol were added and stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched by HO 1 ml and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 ml and washed with brine 5 ml . The organic phase was dried over MgSOand evaporated and the residue was used as crude without no further purification 36 mg 85 IR CHCl 2928 2855 1740 1613 1513 1462 1301 1248 1172 1038 836 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.30 7.24 m 4H 6.90 6.86 m 4H 6.39 ddd J 16.9 10.7 10.6 Hz 1H 5.96 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.50 d J 10.3 Hz 1H 5.42 d J 10.7 Hz 1H 5.36 5.21 m 3H 5.14 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.04 d J 9.9 Hz 1H 4.59 4.47 m 3H 4.39 4.31 m 1H 3.81 s 3H 3.80 s 3H 3.67 s 3H 3.57 dd J 5.9 3.3 Hz 1H 3.28 3.26 m 1H 3.05 q J 3.7 Hz 1H 2.71 2.61 m 3H 2.30 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 1.99 1.90 m 4H 1.68 1.59 m 5H 1.26 br 11H 1.01 d J 6.6 Hz 6H 0.91 br 15H 0.05 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 177.4 159.3 159.1 134.8 133.8 132.5 132.1 131.5 131.1 129.8 129.7 129.2 129.1 128.6 117.3 113.8 113.7 88.1 79.0 55.4 51.6 40.0 36.5 35.8 35.4 34.2 31.4 29.9 29.8 29.5 29.4 29.3 27.6 26.4 25.1 23.7 19.0 18.6 17.6 11.1 3.2 3.3 LRMS API ES 883.6 M Na 24.7 c 1.6 CHCl .

The above ester 41 mg 47 mol was dissolved in CHCl 2 ml HO 0.4 ml and DDQ 32 mg 0.14 mmol was added at 0 C. and was followed same procedure for 43. Purification by flash column chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 8 furnished the diol 25 mg 84 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3487 2924 2850 1741 1602 1463 1367 1249 838 761 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.59 ddd J 16.8 10.8 10.6 Hz 1H 6.04 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.62 t J 10.1 Hz 1H 5.54 5.46 m 1H 5.41 5.30 m 3H 5.23 d J 17.9 Hz 1H 5.14 d J 10.2 Hz 1H 3.75 3.71 m 1H 3.68 s 3H 3.65 3.63 m 1H 3.20 t J 5.8 Hz 1H 2.96 2.90 m 1H 2.69 2.58 m 2H 2.31 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.17 1.95 m 5H 1.62 1.52 m 5H 1.29 br 11H 1.03 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.97 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.93 s 12H 0.10 s 3H 0.08 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 174.3 134.4 133.7 132.0 131.4 129.4 128.8 118.1 114.3 79.0 78.7 71.2 51.4 42.5 35.8 35.7 35.5 34.4 34.1 29.7 29.3 29.2 29.1 27.6 26.1 24.9 24.3 19.2 18.3 17.9 15.0 14.1 9.5 3.7 3.9 LRMS API ES 643.5 M Na 471.4 41.6 c 0.74 CHCl .

To an above solution 25 mg 40 mol in THF 2 mL was added TBAF 1.0 M in THF 0.12 mL 0.12 mmol and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and was washed with water 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum the crude was chromatographed on SiO EtOAc hexane 1 3 to yield 8.5 mg 93 of the ester 48 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3444 2952 2925 2847 1734 1451 1379 1237 1197 1451 967 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl tilde over . ddd J 16.8 10.7 10.6 Hz 1H 6.20 apparent t J 10.7 Hz 1H 5.54 5.46 m 1H 5.43 5.36 m 2H 5.31 5.18 m 4H 3.83 dd J 9.0 3.9 Hz 1H 3.67 s 3H 3.46 dd J 9.3 2.0 Hz 1H 3.22 apparent t J 5.4 Hz 1H 2.85 2.78 m 1H 2.72 2.59 m 2H 2.31 t J 7.4 Hz 3H 2.20 1.95 m 3H 1.74 1.59 m 6H 1.29 br 12H 1.01 0.93 m 12H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 174.3 134.4 133.7 131.9 131.3 128.7 118.9 80.5 79.1 76.0 51.4 37.7 36.4 35.5 35.1 34.5 34.1 30.0 29.3 29.2 29.1 27.6 24.9 24.2 22.7 17.9 16.7 15.1 4.5 LRMS API ES 529 M Na 507 489 471 453 27.3 c 0.43 CHCl .

 12S 13S 14S 19R 20R 21R 22S 13 19 21 Trihydroxy 12 14 20 22 tetramethylhexacosa 10 15 23 25 tetraenoic acid 49 . To an above solution 48 8.0 mg in THF HO 0.3 ml 0.1 ml each was added LiOH HO 1.3 mg and the solution was warmed to 60 C. After stirring 6 h 1N HCl 1 ml was added and reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 10 ml 2 . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum the crude was chromatographed on SiO EtOAc hexane 1 3 to yield 6.3 mg 81 of the 49 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3412 2964 2921 2850 2658 1710 1459 1404 1268 971 903 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.64 ddd J 16.7 10.6 10.0 Hz 1H 6.20 apparent t J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.54 5.46 m 1H 5.42 5.36 m 2H 5.32 5.18 m 4H 3.88 3.84 m 1H 3.48 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 3.23 apparent t J 5.7 Hz 1H 2.86 2.76 m 1H 2.69 2.60 m 2H 2.34 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.21 2.04 m 5H 1.70 1.62 m 5H 1.28 br 13H 1.00 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.94 d J 6.7 Hz 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 180.6 134.4 133.8 132.1 132.0 132.0 131.3 128.8 119.1 80.7 79.2 76.2 37.6 35.5 34.6 29.8 29.7 29.5 29.2 29.1 29.0 27.6 24.8 24.2 22.8 18.1 16.7 15.4 14.2 4.5 LRMS API ES 515.3 M Na 493 M H 475 M H HO 457 M H 2HO 242 33.0 c 0.23 CHCl .

 4R 5R 5 4 Methoxybenzyloxy 4 methyl 8 oxooct 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 51 . To a cooled 0 C. stirred suspension of NaH 2.27 g 11.3 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil in THF 130 ml was added dropwise a solution of triethyl phosphonoacetate 2.27 ml 11.4 mmol over 10 min period. The mixture was brought to room temperature with a water bath 30 min and then cooled back to 0 C. and the aldehyde from 50 3.43 g 9.0 mmol in THF 10 ml was added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. then pH7 phosphate buffer solution 30 ml and diethyl ether 100 ml were added. The mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and the phase was separated. The organic phase was washed with sat d NHCl solution 30 ml and brine 30 ml dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated to give oily crude product. Purification by flash chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 4 afforded pure ester 3.82 g 94 IR CHCl 2954 2928 2855 1720 1513 1250 1034 835 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl tilde over 9 7.25. m 2H 7.00 dd J 15.7 7.5 Hz 1H 6.91 6.84 m 2H 5.83 d J 15.7 Hz 1H 4.47 dd J 14.6 11.1 Hz 2H 4.19 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.81 s 3H 3.64 3.52 m 2H 3.37 3.33 m 1H 2.64 dd J 13.2 6.5 Hz 1H 1.42 1.68 m 4H 1.30 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.09 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.89 s 9H 0.04 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.7 159.3 151.2 130.8 130.4 129.5 121.3 113.9 81.8 71.6 63.1 60.3 55.3 39.8 28.9 27.7 26.1 18.5 15.1 14.4 5.1 LRMS API ES 489.1 M K 435 263 204 6.4 c 0.43 CHCl .

To a solution of above TBS ether 0.324 g 0.72 mmol in THF 5 ml was slowly added HF pyridine in pyridine 8 ml prepared by slow addition of 2.4 ml pyridine to 0.6 ml HF pyridine complex followed by dilution with 5 ml THF . The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and quenched with sat d NaHCO 20 ml . The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 3 10 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with sat d CuSO 3 20 ml dried over MgSO and concentrated. Flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 3 afforded 0.203 g 84 of the alcohol IR CHCl 1715 1612 1514 1249 1180 1035 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl tilde over 7 7.24.m 2H 6.98 dd J 15.8 7.5 Hz 1H 6.88 6.85 m 2H 5.83 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 4.47 dd J 14.6 11.1 Hz 2H 4.17 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.79 s 3H 3.59 3.56 m 2H 3.37 3.33 m 1H 2.71 2.65 m 1H 2.15 br 1H 1.77 1.40 m 4H 1.28 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.08 d J 6.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.7 159.3 150.8 130.4 129.6 121.4 113.9 81.9 71.7 62.8 60.4 55.3 39.5 28.9 27.8 15.2 14.4 LRMS API ES 375.1 M K 359.1 M Na 241 225 12.0 c 0.15 CHCl .

The above alcohol 0.203 g 0.61 mmol in CHCl 6 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 0.38 g 0.90 mmol . After 2 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 10 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 3 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided 0.146 g 72 of the crude aldehyde 51 as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.68 s 1H 7.27 7.21 m 2H 6.99 dd J 15.8 7.3 Hz 1H 6.88 6.85 m 2H 5.84 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 4.48 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.34 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.18 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.79 s 3H 3.41 3.31 m 1H 2.73 2.63 m 1H 2.55 2.40 m 1H 1.90 1.78 m 1H 1.71 1.61 m 1H 1.28 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.27 1.22 m 2H 1.10 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

 4R 5R 10S 11S 12S 17R 18R 19R 20S 19 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 5 11 17 tris 4 methoxybenzyloxy 4 10 12 18 20 pentamethyltetracosa 2 8 13 21 23 pentaenoic acid ethyl ester 52 . NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 0.49 mL 0.49 mmol was slowly added to a solution of the salt 21 0.35 g 0.55 mmol in dry THF 0.50 mL at 0 C. The resulting red solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 51 146 mg 0.44 mmol in THF 0.1 mL was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h at room temperature the mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl 2 mL and extracted with ethyl ether 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and the residue was flash column chromatographed hexane EtOAc 9 1 to yield 183 mg 74 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2962 2850 1716 1614 1515 1249 1179 1035 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl tilde over 6 7.49.m 2H 7.41 7.36 m 2H 7.12 dd J 15.8 7.5 Hz 1H 7.00 6.97 m 4H 5.95 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 5.56 s 1H 5.52 5.39 m 2H 4.53 d J 3.0 Hz 2H 4.33 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.22 4.14 m 2H 3.93 s 3H 3.91 s 3H 3.69 dd J 9.6 1.9 Hz 1H 3.46 3.40 m 1H 2.88 2.80 m 1H 2.75 2.67 m 1H 2.36 2.14 m 2H 1.84 1.81 m 1H 1.67 1.55 m 2H 1.43 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.32 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.15 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.03 d J 6.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.8 159.8 159.3 151.3 134.0 131.8 130.9 129.7 129.5 127.4 121.1 113.9 113.5 101.7 83.9 81.5 74.0 71.7 60.3 55.4 39.7 33.8 31.5 30.1 23.9 16.1 15.0 14.4 11.2 LRMS API ES 605.3 M K 589.3 M Na 567.3 M H 30.0 c 0.01 CHCl Trimethylsilyl chloride 0.24 ml 1.9 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred mixture containing above acetal 0.177 g 0.31 mmol NaCNBH 0.12 g 1.9 mmol and 4 A molecular sieve in acetonitrile 6 ml at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. and filtered through Celite poured into 1N HCl 10 ml . The aqueous phase was extracted by CHCl 2 20 ml dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc hexane 1 3 to yield the alcohol 0.121 g 68 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3467 2962 2931 2873 1716 1612 1514 1462 1248 1179 1035 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.24 m 4H 6.98 dd J 15.7 7.6 Hz 1H 6.91 6.85 m 4H 5.83 d J 15.7 Hz 1H 5.48 dd J 10.8 9.6 Hz 1H 5.41 5.33 m 1H 4.58 d J 12.7 Hz 1H 4.46 d J 11.9 Hz 3H 4.19 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.81 s 3H 3.79 s 3H 3.63 3.49 m 2H 3.39 3.29 m 2H 2.78 dd J 15.7 6.8 Hz 1H 2.61 dd J 13.1 6.6 Hz 1H 2.23 2.17 m 1H 2.09 1.94 m 3H 1.58 1.44 m 2H 1.29 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.06 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.96 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.94 d J 6.9 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.8 159.2 151.1 133.6 131.1 130.7 129.5 129.1 128.7 121.3 114.0 113.9 113.8 84.3 81.6 73.9 71.6 66.2 60.4 55.4 39.7 37.7 34.8 31.5 23.8 18.7 15.1 14.4 11.5 LRMS API ES 591.2 M Na 569.3 M H 551 37.2 c 0.39 CHCl .

The same procedure for 45 was used with above alcohol 0.088 g 0.16 mmol to yield 64 mg 42 for 2 steps of the 52 by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 5 IR CHCl 2956 2932 2857 1717 1612 1513 1462 1301 1248 1172 1037 835 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.29 7.23 m 6H 6.98 dd J 15.9 7.6 Hz 1H 6.89 6.85 m 6H 6.40 ddd J 16.8 10.6 10.5 Hz 1H 5.96 apparent t J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.83 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 5.47 apparent q J 10.6 Hz 1H 5.36 5.24 m 4H 5.15 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.05 d J 9.9 Hz 1H 4.58 4.32 m 6H 4.20 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.81 s 6H 3.80 s 3H 3.58 3.57 m 1H 3.30 3.28 m 2H 3.06 3.04 m 1H 2.71 2.65 m 2H 2.62 2.56 m 2H 2.19 2.17 m 2H 2.06 1.88 m 4H 1.76 1.42 m 6H 1.30 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.07 0.97 m 12H 0.92 s 9H 0.06 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.7 159.2 159.1 151.2 134.8 133.8 132.9 132.5 131.4 130.7 129.5 129.2 128.9 128.6 121.2 117.3 113.8 113.7 88.0 81.6 78.9 74.9 71.6 70.9 60.3 55.4 40.0 39.7 36.5 35.5 35.4 31.6 31.4 26.3 23.7 20.8 19.0 18.8 18.6 17.2 15.0 14.4 11.1 3.2 LRMS API ES 1034.2 M K 1017.6 M Na 995.7 M H 40.7 c 4.09 CHCl .

 6R 7R 12S 13S 14S 19R 20R 21R 22S 21 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 7 13 19 tris 4 methoxybenzyloxy 6 12 14 20 22 pentamethylhexacosa 2 4 10 15 23 25 hexaenoic acid methyl ester 53 . To the above ester 52 64 mg. 64 mol in CHCl 2 ml was added DIBAL H 0.16 ml 0.16 mmol 1.0 M solution in hexane at 78 C. dropwise and then warmed up to 0 C. and stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched by EtOAc 2 ml and sat d sodium potassium tartrate solution 20 mL followed by vigorously stirring for 4 h. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 3 1 provided 47 mg of alcohol 77 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3429 2956 2857 2360 1613 1513 1463 1248 1037 835 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.43 7.37 m 6H 7.03 6.98 m 6H 6.53 ddd J 16.8 10.6 10.5 Hz 1H 6.10 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.81 5.77 m 2H 5.64 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 5.57 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.18 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 4.72 4.45 m 6H 4.21 q J 3.2 Hz 2H 3.94 s 6H 3.93 s 3H 3.71 dd J 5.6 3.0 Hz 1H 3.41 dd J 10.5 5.2 Hz 1H 3.33 dd J 11.1 6.4 Hz 1H 3.19 dd J 12.1 5.9 Hz 1H 2.36 2.19 m 2H 2.12 2.02 m 3H 1.87 1.59 m 5H 1.16 1.13 m 9H 1.07 1.05 m 6H 1.04 s 9H 0.19 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.3 159.2 159.1 135.1 134.8 133.9 132.7 132.6 131.5 131.1 129.7 129.5 129.3 129.2 128.8 128.6 117.4 114.1 113.8 88.1 82.5 79.0 74.9 71.5 70.9 65.2 64.0 55.4 40.0 39.4 36.6 35.6 35.4 31.4 29.9 26.4 23.9 23.7 19.1 18.8 18.7 17.3 16.1 11.1 3.1 3.2 LRMS API ES 991.6 M K 975.6 M Na 38.3 c 1.05 CHCl .

The above alcohol 47 mg 49 mol in CHCl 2 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 31 mg 73 mol . After 2 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 5 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 5 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 3 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. To a stirred solution of bis 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl methoxycarbonylmethyl phosphate 0.013 ml 59 mol 18 crown 6 0.065 g 0.25 mmol in THF 1 ml cooled to 78 C. was added dropwise potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide 0.12 ml 59 mol 0.5M solution in toluene . Thereafter the above aldehyde in THF 1 ml was added and the solution was stirred for 6 h at 78 C. The reaction mixture was quenched by addition of a sat d NHCl solution 1 ml and diluted with diethyl ether 10 ml . The layer was separated and organic phase was washed with brine 10 ml and dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 5 yielding 40 mg of E Z doubly unsaturated ester 53 85 for 2 steps IR CHCl 2956 2856 1717 1612 1513 1462 1301 1248 1173 1037 820 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.53 dd J 15.4 11.3 Hz 1H 7.43 7.37 m 6H 7.03 6.98 m 6H 6.68 dd J 11.4 11.3 Hz 1H 6.53 ddd J 17.0 10.7 10.4 Hz 1H 6.19 dd J 15.4 7.6 Hz 1H 6.09 apparent t J 11.2 Hz 1H 5.73 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 5.64 d J 10.3 Hz 1H 5.56 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.45 5.41 m 3H 5.28 d J 15.3 Hz 1H 5.18 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.71 4.45 m 6H 3.94 s 6H 3.93 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 3.70 dd J 6.1 3.2 Hz 1H 3.44 3.38 m 1H 3.19 dd J 6.9 4.2 Hz 1H 2.85 2.77 m 3H 2.34 2.31 m 2H 2.08 2.04 m 3H 1.84 1.55 m 5H 1.20 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.14 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.12 d J 8.2 Hz 3H 1.07 1.01 m 15H 0.16 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.9 159.1 158.9 147.6 145.6 134.7 133.7 132.7 132.4 131.3 130.9 130.8 129.5 129.4 129.0 128.9 128.4 126.4 117.2 115.4 113.7 87.9 82.1 78.8 74.7 71.4 70.8 55.2 53.4 51.1 40.0 36.4 35.4 35.2 31.4 31.3 29.7 26.2 23.7 23.6 18.9 18.6 18.5 17.1 15.4 10.9 3.3 3.4 LRMS API ES 1045.5 M K 1029.5 M Na 35.3 c 0.96 CHCl .

 7R 8R 13S 14S 15S 20R 21R 22R 23S 8 14 20 Trihydroxy 7 13 15 21 tetramethyl 22 1 methylpenta 2 4 dienyl oxacyclodocosa 3 5 11 16 tetraen 2 one 54 . To a stirred solution of protected alcohol 53 33 mg 33 mol in THF 1 ml at 0 C. was added 2 ml of 3 N HCl prepared by adding 25 ml of conc. HCl to 75 ml MeOH . After 6 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 ml and HO 5 ml and the organic phase was separated and aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with sat d NaHCO 10 ml dried with MgSO concentrated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 4 to yield 19 mg 21 mol of product 63 IR CHCl 3491 2958 2869 1716 1612 1513 1456 1248 1036 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.40 dd J 15.3 11.5 Hz 1H 7.29 7.22 m 6H 6.92 6.84 m 6H 6.61 ddd J 17.7 10.7 10.4 Hz 1H 6.54 dd J 11.5 11.4 Hz 1H 6.10 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 6.06 dd J 15.1 7.7 Hz 1H 5.59 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 5.49 d J 10.4 Hz 1H 5.41 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 5.37 5.30 m 3H 5.21 d J 17.0 Hz 1H 5.11 d J 10.2 Hz 1H 4.58 4.34 m 6H 3.81 s 3H 3.80 s 3H 3.79 s 3H 3.73 s 3H 3.47 3.44 m 2H 3.31 3.25 m 1H 3.05 dd J 7.3 4.0 Hz 1H 2.80 2.69 m 2H 2.66 2.61 m 1H 2.20 2.15 m 2H 2.05 1.91 m 3H 1.85 1.76 m 1H 1.72 1.61 m 2H 1.57 1.47 m 2H 1.09 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.00 apparent q J 7.1 Hz 9H 0.91 d J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 167.1 159.3 159.1 147.7 145.7 136.8 134.1 132.8 132.5 131.4 132.8 132.5 131.4 130.9 130.4 130.2 129.6 129.3 128.3 126.6 118.0 115.6 114.0 113.9 88.1 83.1 82.2 75.0 71.5 71.0 55.4 51.2 40.1 36.7 36.3 35.9 35.4 31.6 30.6 29.9 23.9 23.8 19.0 17.6 15.6 LRMS API ES 915.5 M Na 41.1 c 0.45 CHCl .

To the stirried solution of above ester 19 mg 21 mol in EtOH 1 ml was added 1N aqueous KOH solution 0.056 ml and the mixture was refluxed gently until the ester disappeared about 6 h as determined by TLC. The ethanolic solution was concentrated and then diluted with EtOAc 2 ml . After the solution was acidified to pH3 with 1N HCl solution organic phase was separated and aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 ml . The combined organic phase were dried with MgSO concentrated and used as crude without further purification. The same procedure for 43 was used with above acid compound to yield 14 mg 79 for 2 steps of the macrolactone product by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 3 IR CHCl 2961 2869 1708 1612 1513 1462 1248 1174 1076 1036 820 755 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.41 7.38 m 7H 7.03 6.96 m 6H 6.73 6.57 m 1H 6.67 apparent t J 11.2 Hz 1H 6.31 dd J 15.8 6.4 Hz 1H 6.12 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.69 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 5.53 5.40 m 3H 5.34 5.19 m 4H 4.70 4.47 m 6H 3.94 s 6H 3.89 s 3H 3.43 3.38 m 1H 3.26 3.16 m 2H 3.08 3.03 m 1H 2.87 2.86 m 1H 2.78 2.73 m 2H 2.22 2.19 m 2H 2.07 2.05 m 3H 1.93 1.55 m 5H 1.23 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.19 d J 7.2 Hz 9H 1.07 d J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.3 159.2 158.9 145.4 143.6 134.0 133.0 132.2 131.4 130.8 130.7 129.9 129.53 128.48 129.43 129.4 129.3 129.2 129.0 126.2 117.7 116.9 113.8 113.6 88.0 83.2 75.2 71.7 71.2 55.2 39.4 38.4 37.0 35.6 34.3 31.7 25.4 24.9 19.7 18.6 17.2 15.4 10.0 LRMS API ES 899.5 M K 883.5 M Na 40.4 c 0.47 CHCl .

The same procedure for 43 was used with above lactone 14 mg 16 mol to yield 3.7 mg 46 of the product 54 by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 2 IR CHCl 3411 2964 2926 2872 1692 1637 1435 1182 999 962 cm H NMR 600 MHz CDCl 7.27 ddt J 15.7 11.2 1.2 Hz 1H 6.61 ddt J 16.8 1.1 10.7 Hz 1H 6.53 apparent t J 11.3 Hz 1H 6.02 dd J 15.4 6.7 Hz 1H 6.01 apparent t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.56 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 5.43 dd J 10.8 9.1 Hz 1H 5.39 5.36 m 1H 5.33 apparent t J 10.6 Hz 1H 5.30 5.23 m 2H 5.19 dt J 16.8 0.9 Hz 1H 5.10 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 5.00 dd J 7.8 3.2 Hz 1H 3.67 ddd J 11.7 5.8 4.6 Hz 1H 3.41 ddd J 8.9 6.0 2.4 Hz 1H 3.31 dd J 7.0 5.0 Hz 1H 3.06 3.00 m 1H 2.68 2.61 m 2H 2.41 dd J 13.7 6.8 Hz 1H 2.20 2.11 m 2H 1.82 dt J 7.2 3.2 Hz 1H 1.77 1.71 m 2H 1.41 1.35 m 2H 1.32 1.25 m 2H 1.11 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.06 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.03 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.02 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.01 d J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 166.5 145.8 143.5 133.8 132.3 132.1 131.5 130.0 129.8 129.7 127.0 117.9 117.2 79.3 73.1 72.7 42.8 40.4 36.7 35.0 34.9 34.6 33.7 24.7 24.0 18.7 17.8 17.3 15.3 9.9 HRMS EI calcd for CHO482.3396 M OH . found 482.3416 19.2 c 0.24 CHCl .

4 R Benzyl 3 4 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 S dioxolan 4 yl 3 S hydroxy 2 R methyl butyryl oxazolidin 2 one 56 . Diisopropylethylamine 13 ml was added to a solution of propionyloxazolidinone 13.1 g in anhydrous CHCl 250 ml at 0 C. followed by dropwise addition of nBuBOTf 1.0M in CHCl 68 ml . The solution was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. A solution of crude aldehyde from 55 8.9 g prepared before in anhydrous CHCl 10 ml was added slowly at 78 C. After addition the reaction mixture was warmed to 0 C. and stirred for 1 h then quenched with pH7 phosphate buffer 20 mL . A solution of hydrogen peroxide 30 40 mL in MeOH 80 mL was added at 0 C. and the mixture was allowed to stir for 1 h. The reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 50 mL 2 and dried over MgSOfollowed by flash chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 1 to yield 20.7 g of product 98 IR CHCl 3434 2956 2929 2858 1724 1472 1463 1257 1097 836 775 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.33. m 3H 7.22 m 2H 4.72 ddd J 10.5 6.9 3.2 Hz 1H 4.35 m 1H 4.23 m 3H 4.12 dd J 8.5 6.5 Hz 1H 3.82 ddd J 10.2 7.0 3.2 Hz 1H 3.61 t J 7.7 Hz 1H 3.25 dd J 13.4 3.3 Hz 1H 2.82 dd J 13.4 9.4 Hz 1H 1.80 ddd J 14.2 9.7 4.6 Hz 1H 1.68 ddd J 10.8 7.8 3.0 Hz 1H 1.43 s 3H 1.38 s 3H 1.30 d J 7.0 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 176.9 152.9 134.9 129.3 128.8 127.3 108.6 73.4 69.5 68.5 66.0 54.9 42.4 37.5 26.8 25.6 14.1 10.8 28.1 c 4.1 CHCl .

6 2 2 Dimethyl 1 3 S dioxolan 4 yl 5 S hydroxy 4 R methyl hex 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 57 . To a solution of RED Al 4.6 ml in THF 100 ml at 78 C. was added aldol product 56 5.39 g in THF 10 ml slowly over 10 min. The evolution of gas could be seen as the solution was stirred for 10 15 min at 78 C. The reaction was then warmed to 50 C. and stirred between 55 and 40 C. for 1 h. The reaction was quenched at 50 C. with 100 ml of EtOAc and 10 ml of MeOH and then poured into a mixture of sat d Rochelle salt 30 ml and EtO 60 ml and stirred at 20 C. for 10 min. The aqueous layer froze as a gel. The ether layer was separated and the aqueous layer rinsed quickly with EtO 2 30 ml . The combined organic extracts were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude aldehyde was taken immediately on to the Wittig reaction. To a 200 ml of dry THF was added 3.26 ml of triethylphosphonoacetate followed by 1.86 g of potassium tert butoxide. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 min before cooling to 78 C. The crude aldehyde was added in 20 ml of THF and stirred overnight while warming to room temperature. The mixture was poured into 30 ml of brine extracted with EtO 3 40 ml dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Flash silica gel chromatography hexane EtOAc 3 2 provided 2.02 g 52 for 2 steps of pure product as an colorless oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl dd J 15.8 8.0 Hz 1H 5.83 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 4.28 m 1H 4.14 q J 7.1 Hz 1H 4.03 dd J 8.1 6.0 Hz 1H 3.76 m 1H 3.53 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 2.48 brs 1H 2.41 m 1H 1.72 1.56 m 2H 1.37 s 3H 1.31 s 3H 1.24 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.07 d J 6.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.4 150.3 121.6 108.6 73.5 71.3 69.3 60.2 42.8 37.2 25.8 25.5 14.5 14.1.

5 S 7 S 8 Tris tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 4 R methyl oct 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 58 . To a stirred solution of conjugated ester 57 1.73 g in MeOH 20 ml was added Dowex HCR W2 ion exchange resin 2.0 g activated by aqueous 1N HCl for 24 h then filtered MeOH as eluent and stirred for 24 h. The resin was filtered and filtrate was concentrated and dried for 2 h in vacuo. The triol was then used in next step without further purification. To a stirred solution of triol and 2 6 lutidine 3.3 mL 28.6 mmol in CHCl 30 mL at 0 C. was added TBDMSOTf 5.1 mL 22.2 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. The reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of water 25 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted by CHCland dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by short column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 whereupon the 58 2.96 g 81 for 2 steps was obtained H NMR 300 MHz CDCl dd J 15.9 6.7 Hz 1H 5.75 dd J 15.9 1.5 Hz 1H 4.16 dq J 1.3 7.1 Hz 2H 3.84 quint J 3.6 Hz 1H 3.71 m 1H 3.49 dd J 10.1 5.4 Hz 1H 3.36 dd J 10.1 5.8 Hz 1H 2.48 m 1H 1.59 1.40 m 2H 1.25 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.99 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.85 m 27H 0.056 s 3H 0.049 s 3H 0.04 s 3H 0.02 s 3H 0.01 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.6 151.7 120.8 72.8 71.4 68.0 60.0 42.2 39.5 25.9 25.7 18.3 18.1 14.2 13.3 3.0 3.6 4.2 4.5 5.4.

5 S 7 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 8 hydroxy 4 R methyl oct 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 59 To a solution of TBS ether 58 7.4 g 12.9 mmol in THF 10 ml was slowly added HF pyridine in pyridine 40 ml prepared by slow addition of 12 ml pyridine to 3 ml HF pyridine complex followed by dilution with 25 ml THF . The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and quenched with sat d NaHCO 100 ml . The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtO 3 50 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with sat d CuSO 3 50 ml dried over MgSO and concentrated. Flash column chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 4 afforded 3.86 g 65 of the alcohol 59 IR CHCl 3492 2956 2930 2857 1722 1472 1367 1256 1092 1039 836 775 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.01. dd J 15.9 6.7 Hz 1H 5.75 dd J 15.9 1.5 Hz 1H 4.15 dq J 1.2 7.2 Hz 2H 3.75 m 1H 3.56 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 2.44 m 1H 1.85 t J 5.9 Hz 1H 1.61 ddd J 11.5 6.4 5.0 Hz 1H 1.50 ddd J 13.0 7.2 5.8 Hz 1H 1.25 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.99 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.86 s 9H 0.85 s 9H 0.60 s 6H 0.34 s 3H 0.02 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.5 151.1 121.1 72.8 71.0 66.9 60.1 41.8 38.7 25.8 18.0 14.2 13.3 4.2 4.3.

5 S 7 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 4 R methyl 8 oxo oct 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 60 . The alcohol 59 3.86 g 8.34 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 5.3 g 12.5 mmol . After 1 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 50 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 20 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided the aldehyde as a colorless oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl s 1H 7.02. dd J 15.9 6.6 Hz 1H 5.77 dd J 15.9 1.4 Hz 1H 4.15 dq J 1.0 7.2 Hz 2H 4.07 ddd J 6.4 4.8 1.4 Hz 1H 3.84 ddd J 8.6 6.8 4.4 Hz 1H 2.52 m 1H 1.66 m 2H 1.25 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.99 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.89 s 9H 0.86 s 9H 0.07 s 3H 0.05 s 3H 0.03 s 6H .

5 S 7 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 10 S 2 4 methoxy benzyl 5 S methyl 1 3 R dioxan 4 yl 4 R methyl undeca 2 8 dienoic acid ethyl ester 61 . NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 12.3 mL 12.3 mmol was slowly added to a solution of the salt 21 8.72 g 13.7 mmol in dry THF 13.7 mL at 0 C. The resulting red solution was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 60 5.03 g 10.9 mmol in THF 2.0 mL was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and then warmed to room temperature. After 4 h at room temperature the mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl 20 mL and extracted with ethyl ether 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and the residue was flash column chromatographed hexane EtOAc 9 1 to yield 61 5.65 g 75 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2957 2929 2856 1720 1650 1617 1518 1463 1370 1250 1158 1073 1032 836 774 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl m 2H 6.99 dd J 15.8 6.9 Hz 1H 6.82 m 2H 5.72 dd J 15.8 1.5 Hz 1H 5.36 s 1H 5.32 dd J 11.1 8.6 Hz 1H 5.18 t J 10.8 Hz 1H 4.55 ddd J 12.6 8.6 4.1 Hz 1H 4.12 m 2H 3.99 d J 7.2 2.1 Hz 1H 3.91 m 1H 3.77 s 3H 3.52 dd J 9.3 2.1 Hz 1H 2.64 m 1H 2.37 m 1H 1.64 m 1H 1.46 m 2H 1.22 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.15 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.93 d J 6.8 Hz 6H 0.86 s 18H 0.06 s 3H 0.05 s 3H 0.04 s 3H 0.02 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.5 159.7 151.9 133.8 132.7 131.3 120.8 113.4 101.7 83.6 73.8 71.9 66.4 60.0 55.1 43.6 42.9 34.2 29.8 26.0 25.9 18.1 15.6 14.2 13.5 11.2 3.0 3.8 4.1 4.5 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 729.3984 M K found 729.4013 8.7 c 6.8 CHCl .

5 S 7 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 10 S 2 4 methoxy benzyl 5 S methyl 1 3 R dioxan 4 yl 4 R methyl undeca 2 8 dien 1 ol 62 . To the stirried solution of ester 61 3.13 g 4.53 mol in EtOH 20 ml THF 2 ml was added 1N aqueous KOH solution 45 ml and the mixture was refluxed gently until the ester disappeared about 6 h as determined by TLC. The ethanolic solution was concentrated and then diluted with EtOAc 50 ml . After the solution was acidified to pH 3 with 1N HCl solution organic phase was separated and aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 10 ml . The combined organic phase were dried with MgSO concentrated and used as crude in next step without further purification. The carboxylic acid was treated with NEt 1.5 ml and ethyl chloroformate 0.67 ml in dry THF 50 ml at 10 C. After 15 min the mixture was warmed to 0 C. and a solution of NaBH 1.2 g in HO 10 ml were added. After 4 h the reaction was quenched by addition of sat d Rochelle salt solution and EtO. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with HO sat d NaHCOsolution and brine dried with MgSO. Rotary evaporation and silica column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 gave product 62 1.79 g 61 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3433 2957 2929 2856 1617 1518 1462 1388 1250 1074 836 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.38 m 2H 6.84 m 2H 5.63 dd J 15.7 6.2 Hz 1H 5.48 dt J 16.0 5.6 Hz 1H 5.37 t J 10.6 Hz 1H 4.59 m 1H 3.99 m 2H 3.93 m 1H 3.87 m 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.49 dd J 9.6 2.0 Hz 1H 2.68 m 1H 2.31 m 1H 1.79 brs 1H 1.64 m 1H 1.44 m 2H 1.15 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.92 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.88 m 21H 0.09 s 3H 0.06 s 3H 0.05 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.6 134.4 134.3 132.4 131.5 129.1 127.4 113.4 101.5 83.5 73.8 72.8 66.5 63.7 55.2 42.2 34.1 29.8 26.1 25.9 18.14 18.10 15.5 15.2 11.3 2.9 4.1 4.2 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiNa 671.4139 M Na . found 671.4141 14.0 c 1.5 CHCl .

4 4 S 6 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 1 S 7 R dimethyl 10 trityloxy deca 2 8 dienyl 2 4 methoxy benzyl 5 S methyl 1 3 R dioxane 63 . To a solution of alcohol 62 0.105 g in pyridine 1.6 ml was added trityl chloride 0.094 g and DMAP 0.041 g . The mixture was then refluxed for 18 h cooled to ambient temperature and added to a solution of sat d CuSO 20 ml . The mixture was extracted with EtO 2 20 ml washed sat d CuSO 2 20 ml . The organic layer was separated dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 9 provided product 63 0.142 g 99 as a pale yellow oil IR CHCl 2956 2926 2855 1616 1517 1462 1378 1249 1073 835 773 705 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.63 m 6H 7.51 m 2H 7.40 m 9H 6.93 m 2H 5.91 dd J 15.7 6.5 Hz 1H 5.66 dt J 15.5 5.2 Hz 1H 5.55 m 1H 5.53 s 1H 5.39 t J 10.2 Hz 1H 4.78 dt J 3.1 8.9 Hz 1H 4.10 m 3H 3.80 s 3H 3.70 m 3H 2.85 m 1H 2.45 m 1H 1.78 m 1H 1.65 m 2H 1.31 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.08 m 24H 0.28 s 3H 0.27 s 3H 0.25 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.5 146.8 144.3 135.0 134.1 132.4 131.3 128.6 127.8 127.6 127.3 127.1 126.7 126.3 113.3 101.5 86.6 83.4 73.8 72.7 66.6 65.0 55.0 43.5 42.8 34.2 29.9 26.1 25.9 18.1 15.7 14.5 11.3 2.9 3.8 4.1 4.3 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 929.4969 M K found 929.5008 7.3 c 1.1 CHCl .

7 S 9 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 3 4 methoxy benzyloxy 2 S S 10 R trimethyl 13 trityloxy trideca 5 11 dien 1 ol 64 . To the PMB acetal 63 3.75 g. 4.21 mol in CHCl 20 ml was added DIBAL H 21 ml 21 mmol 1.0 M solution in hexane at 78 C. dropwise and then warmed up to 0 C. and stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched by EtOAc 10 ml and sat d sodium potassium tartrate solution 50 mL followed by vigorously stirring for 4 h. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 3 20 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with brine 30 mL . After drying over MgSOand evaporation under vacuum flash column chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 provided 64 2.78 g 74 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3434 2956 2928 2856 1612 1514 1471 1249 1073 836 774 706 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.48 m 6H 7.29 m 11H 6.84 m 2H 5.84 dd J 15.7 6.2 Hz 1H 5.57 dt J 15.7 5.4 Hz 1H 5.44 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 4.63 m 1H 4.53 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.46 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 3.94 m 1H 3.80 s 3H 3.57 d J 4.8 Hz 2H 3.48 m 1H 3.31 m 2H 2.80 m 1H 2.42 m 1H 1.84 m 2H 1.55 ddd J 14.2 10.1 1.9 Hz 1H 1.40 ddd J 13.9 8.6 2.0 Hz 1H 1.07 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.97 m 12H 0.93 s 9H 0.87 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.16 s 3H 0.15 s 3H 0.11 s 3H 0.10 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.0 144.3 134.0 133.7 131.5 130.9 129.3 128.6 127.9 127.7 127.2 126.8 126.5 113.6 86.7 84.0 73.9 73.0 66.2 65.8 65.1 55.2 42.3 42.2 38.0 35.1 26.0 25.9 18.5 18.2 18.1 14.8 12.0 2.9 4.0 4.19 4.23 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 931.5125 M K found 931.5152 21.4 c 0.52 CHCl .

9 S 11 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 5 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 4 S 6 S 12 R trimethyl 15 trityloxy pentadeca 2 7 13 trienoic acid ethyl ester 65 . The alcohol 64 2.01 g 2.25 mol in CHCl 20 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 1.43 g 3.4 mol . After 1 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 20 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 25 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 3 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. To a stirred solution of triethyl phosphonoacetate 0.51 ml 2.6 mol in THF 20 ml cooled to 78 C. was added dropwise potassium tert butoxide 0.29 g 2.5 mol and stirred for 30 min. Thereafter the above aldehyde in THF 5 ml was added and the solution was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. then 2 h at 0 C. The reaction mixture was quenched by addition of a sat d NHCl solution 5 ml and diluted with diethyl ether 20 ml . The layer was separated and organic phase was washed with brine 20 ml and dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 9 yielding 2.01 g of unsaturated ester 65 93 for 2 steps IR CHCl 2956 2929 2856 1718 1650 1612 1514 1448 1250 1180 1074 836 774 706 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.55 m 6H 7.34 m 11H 7.09 dd J 15.8 7.1 Hz 1H 6.89 m 2H 5.89 dd J 15.7 5.8 Hz 1H 5.78 d J 15.8 Hz 1H 5.66 dt J 6.0 15.7 Hz 1H 5.45 m 2H 4.66 m 1H 4.51 m 2H 4.23 m 2H 3.99 m 1H 3.83 s 3H 3.66 d J 5.3 Hz 2H 3.29 t J 4.7 Hz 1H 2.79 m 1H 2.65 m 1H 2.49 m 1H 1.60 m 1H 1.48 m 1H 1.33 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.12 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.11 d J 6.6 Hz 3H 1.06 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.01 s 9H 1.00 s 9H 0.20 s 3H 0.19 s 3H 0.17 s 3H 0.15 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.5 158.9 152.2 144.3 134.3 133.9 131.0 130.5 129.3 128.6 127.6 126.7 126.4 120.2 113.5 107.0 86.6 85.5 73.4 72.8 66.3 65.1 59.9 55.1 42.2 38.9 35.2 26.0 25.9 18.2 18.1 14.6 14.2 13.7 3.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 999.5393 M K . found 999.5387 4.6 c 3.1 CHCl .

9 S 11 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 5 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 4 S 6 S 12 R trimethyl 15 trityloxy pentadeca 7 13 dienoic acid ethyl ester 66 . To a stirred solution of unsaturated ester 65 2.02 g 2.10 mol in MeOH 10 ml THF 1 ml at 0 C. was added 0.25 g of NiCl 6HO then portionwise NaBH 0.16 g . After 1 h the reaction mixture was evaporated and filtered with Celite using EtO as an eluent 5 ml . The organic phase was concentrated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 9 to yield 1.96 g 2.04 mol of product 66 97 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2956 2929 2856 1735 1613 1514 1479 1448 1374 1249 1174 1072 836 773 706 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.53 m 6H 7.33 m 11H 6.84 m 2H 5.81 dd J 15.7 6.1 Hz 1H 5.65 m 1H 5.45 m 2H 4.65 m 1H 4.56 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.45 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.14 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.96 m 1H 3.80 s 3H 3.62 m 2H 3.14 m 1H 2.79 m 1H 2.43 m 1H 2.23 m 1H 1.72 m 2H 1.54 m 3H 1.28 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.06 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.01 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.97 s 18H 0.93 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.17 s 3H 0.154 s 3H 0.151 s 3H 0.14 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 173.6 158.8 144.4 134.6 133.6 132.1 131.2 129.1 128.7 127.7 126.8 126.4 103.4 86.6 86.1 73.8 72.8 66.5 65.2 60.0 55.1 42.8 42.3 35.4 35.1 32.3 29.4 26.0 25.9 18.4 18.1 14.6 14.2 13.9 2.9 4.0 4.1 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 1001.5549 M K found 1001.5586 9.8 c 0.95 CHCl .

4 R Benzyl 3 9 S 11 S bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 5 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 4 R 6 S 12 S trimethyl 15 trityloxy pentadeca 7 13 dienoyl oxazolidin 2 one 68 . To the stirred solution of ester 66 1.61 g 1.67 mol in EtOH 20 ml THF 2 ml was added 1N aqueous KOH solution 17 ml and the mixture was refluxed gently until the ester disappeared about 6 h as determined by TLC. The ethanolic solution was concentrated and then diluted with EtOAc 20 ml . After the solution was acidified to pH3 with 1N HCl solution organic phase was separated and aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 10 ml . The combined organic phase were dried with MgSO concentrated and used as crude without further purification. A solution of the above acid and EtN 0.47 ml in dry THF 17 ml was cooled to 78 C. treated dropwise with pivaloyl chloride 0.25 ml stirred in the cold for 1 h and warmed to 0 C. prior to the addition of the S oxazolidinone 4 0.30 g and LiCl 0.21 g . This reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and diluted with water 10 ml . The separated aqueous phase was extracted with ether 2 10 ml and the combined organic phase were dried and evaporated and flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 4 gave the product 68 1.52 g 83 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2956 2856 1785 1701 1612 1513 1449 1385 1249 1074 910 836 774 734 706 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.47 m 6H 7.30 m 10H 7.24 m 6H 6.78 m 2H 5.75 dd J 15.7 6.2 Hz 1H 5.54 dt J 15.5 5.5 Hz 1H 5.41 m 2H 4.62 m 2H 4.55 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.42 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.16 m 2H 3.91 m 1H 3.75 s 3H 3.56 m 2H 3.30 dd J 13.4 3.2 Hz 1H 3.15 dd J 6.7 2.2 Hz 1H 2.85 m 2H 2.77 m 2H 2.37 m 1H 1.78 m 2H 1.61 m 3H 1.44 m 3H 1.01 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.96 d J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.92 m 21H 0.12 s 3H 0.10 s 3H 0.09 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 173.1 158.7 153.2 144.3 135.3 134.7 133.6 132.5 131.2 129.3 129.1 128.8 128.6 127.6 127.2 126.7 126.2 113.4 86.5 85.8 73.7 72.7 66.4 65.9 65.1 55.0 42.8 42.4 37.8 35.5 34.9 33.5 28.7 26.0 25.9 18.2 18.1 14.5 13.9 2.9 4.0 4.2 HRMS ESI calcd for CHNOSiK 1132.5920 M K . found 1132.5874 14.8 c 0.61 CHCl .

4 R Benzyl 3 9 S 11 S bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 5 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 2 S 4 S 6 S 12 R tetramethyl 15 trityloxy pentadeca 7 13 dienoyl oxazolidin 2 one 69 . NaHMDS 1.0 M in THF 1.68 ml was added at 78 C. to a solution of 68 1.67 g in THF 4 ml . After 30 min the reaction mixture was treated with MeI 0.29 ml at 78 C. stirred for an additional 4 h quenched with sat d aqueous NHCl and extracted with ether 2 10 ml . The combined organic layers were dried MgSO concentrated and purified by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 9 to give product 69 1.05 g 62 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2957 2929 2856 1783 1697 1513 1449 1385 1249 1074 836 774 705 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.49 m 6H 7.29 m 16H 6.80 m 2H 5.79 dd J 15.6 6.2 Hz 1H 5.56 dt J 15.6 5.7 Hz 1H 5.42 m 2H 4.62 m 2H 4.56 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.37 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.17 m 1H 4.05 m 1H 3.92 m 1H 3.77 s 3H 3.58 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.27 m 1H 3.08 dd J 6.3 2.5 Hz 1H 2.77 m 2H 2.38 m 1H 1.76 m 1H 1.64 m 2H 1.46 m 4H 1.10 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.00 d J 6.3 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.93 m 21H 0.14 s 3H 0.11 s 6H 0.10 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 177.3 158.7 152.8 144.4 135.3 134.9 133.6 132.3 131.3 129.4 128.9 128.8 128.6 127.6 127.2 126.7 126.3 113.5 86.6 86.5 74.0 72.8 66.5 65.8 65.2 43.0 42.5 37.8 35.4 35.3 33.0 26.3 26.0 25.9 18.3 18.1 17.4 14.5 14.2 2.9 4.0 4.1 4.2 HRMS ESI calcd for CHNOSiK 1146.6077 M K found 1146.6079 16.70 c 1.1 CHCl .

9 S 11 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 5 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 2 S 4 S 6 S 12 R tetramethyl 15 trityloxy pentadeca 7 13 dien 1 ol 70 . To a stirred solution of 69 0.41 g 0.37 mmol in THF 1.5 ml at 0 C. was added MeOH 0.015 ml and LiBH 0.81 ml 2.0 M soln in THF dropwise. After stirring 2 h at 0 C. saturated sodium potassium tartrate 10 ml was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and extracted with CHCl 10 ml 2 . The combined organic layer were washed with brine 10 ml and dried over anhydrous MgSO evaporated and the residue was chromatographed hexane EtOAc 4 1 to yield 70 0.30 g 87 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 3400 2956 2928 2856 1613 1514 1449 1377 1249 1074 836 774 706 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.48 m 6H 7.29 m 11H 6.84 m 2H 5.78 dd J 15.7 6.0 Hz 1H 5.58 dt J 15.7 5.2 Hz 1H 5.46 m 1H 5.35 m 1H 4.59 t J 9.5 Hz 1H 4.48 q J 10.9 Hz 2H 3.92 m 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.57 d J 5.5 Hz 2H 3.25 m 2H 3.03 t J 4.5 Hz 1H 2.75 m 1H 2.41 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.55 m 2H 1.32 m 2H 1.17 m 2H 1.07 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.97 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.94 s 9H 0.91 m 12H 0.72 d J 6.6 Hz 3H 0.13 s 3H 0.12 s 3H 0.09 s 3H 0.07 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 158.9 144.4 134.4 133.4 131.5 131.4 129.1 128.7 127.7 126.8 126.5 113.6 87.6 86.8 74.1 73.0 68.9 66.5 65.4 55.2 42.7 42.4 37.1 35.0 33.1 26.0 25.9 18.9 18.1 15.8 14.9 14.7 2.8 4.0 4.06 4.10 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 973.6301 M K found 973.6264 31.7 c 1.3 CHCl .

3 R 2 4 Methoxy phenyl 5 S methyl 1 S 3 dioxan 4 yl 2 oxo butyl phosphonic acid dimethyl ester 71 . n Butyllithium 4.5 ml 1.6 M solution in hexane was added dropwise to a stirred solution of dimethyl methanephosphonate 0.77 ml in THF 7 ml at 78 C. After 1 h a solution of the known weinreb amide Smith A. B. et al. 2000 122 8654 8664 0.46 g in THF 0.5 ml was added. After 30 min the reaction was then allowed to warm to 0 C. and quenched by pouring into brine 100 ml and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 50 ml dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Flash silica gel column chromatography EtOAc gave the desired product 71 0.47 g 85 as a colorless oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.38 m 2H 6.89 m 2H 5.50 s 1H 4.14 dd J 11.3 4.7 Hz 1H 4.06 dd J 10.0 2.7 Hz 1H 3.80 s 3H 3.77 s 3H 3.74 s 3H 3.59 t J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.42 d J 14.5 Hz 1H 3.34 d J 14.5 Hz 1H 3.20 d J 14.5 Hz 1H 3.13 d J 14.5 Hz 1H 3.02 dq J 2.8 7.0 Hz 1H 2.06 m 1H 1.26 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.85 d J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 202.5 159.5 130.4 126.9 113.1 100.5 82.1 72.4 54.9 52.6 48.6 39.3 37.6 30.6 11.6 8.7

13 S 15 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 2 4 methoxy benzyl 5 S methyl 1 3 S dioxan 4 yl 9 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 6 S 8 S 10 S 16 R tetramethyl 19 trityloxy nonadeca 4 11 17 trien 3 one 72 . The alcohol 70 0.30 g 0.32 mol in CHCl 10 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 0.20 g 0.47 mol . After 1 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 10 mL 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 4 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. A mixture of ketophosphonate 71 0.14 g and Ba OH 0.043 g activated by heating to 100 C. for 1 2 h before use in THF 2 ml was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. A solution of the above aldehyde in wet THF 2 ml 2 1 ml washings 40 1 THF HO was then added and stirred for overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtO 10 ml and washed with sat d NaHCO 10 ml and brine 10 ml . The organic solution was dried MgSO and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed hexane EtOAc 4.5 1 to yield 72 0.34 g 90 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2957 2929 2855 1615 1515 1461 1249 1076 1036 835 774 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.47 m 6H 7.38 m 2H 7.28 m 12H 6.89 m 2H 6.78 m 2H 6.22 d J 15.6 Hz 1H 5.74 dd J 15.7 6.2 Hz 1H 5.57 m 1H 5.45 s 1H 5.38 m 2H 4.60 m 1H 4.52 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.33 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.12 dd J 11.2 4.5 Hz 1H 3.90 m 2H 3.81 s 3H 3.76 s 3H 3.55 m 3H 3.04 m 1H 2.92 m 1H 2.75 m 1H 2.36 m 1H 2.25 quint J 7.2 Hz 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.71 m 1H 1.56 1.33 m 4H 1.25 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.96 d J 7.8 Hz 3H 0.95 d J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.92 m 21H 0.85 d J 7.3 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 201.1 159.7 158.8 153.1 144.3 134.6 133.6 132.4 131.2 131.0 129.1 128.6 127.7 127.2 126.8 126.3 126.0 113.5 113.4 100.7 86.6 85.7 82.8 73.8 72.8 66.4 65.2 55.2 47.0 42.8 42.4 40.4 35.5 34.2 32.8 32.2 26.0 25.9 19.2 18.4 18.3 18.1 14.5 14.4 12.4 10.7 2.9 4.0 4.1 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 1231.6856 M K found 1231.6850 22.8 c 0.88 CHCl .

13 S 15 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 2 4 methoxy benzyl 5 S methyl 1 3 S dioxan 4 yl 9 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 6 S 8 S 10 S 16 R tetramethyl 19 trityloxy nonadeca 11 17 dien 3 one 73 . To a stirred solution of unsaturated ketone 72 0.34 g 0.29 mol in MeOH 4 ml THF 0.5 ml at 0 C. was added 0.034 g of NiCl 6HO then portionwise NaBH 0.022 g . After 1 h the reaction mixture was evaporated and filtered with Celite using EtO as a eluent 5 ml . The organic phase was concentrated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 4 to yield 0.31 g of product 73 89 as a colorless oil IR CHCl 2956 2929 2855 1713 1614 1515 1461 1249 1075 1036 835 774 706 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.47 m 6H 7.29 m 13H 6.87 m 2H 6.80 m 2H 5.75 dd J 15.7 6.1 Hz 1H 5.55 m 1H 5.45 s 1H 5.38 m 2H 4.60 m 1H 4.48 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.36 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.13 dd J 11.2 4.4 Hz 1H 3.93 m 2H 3.79 s 3H 3.76 s 3H 3.55 m 2H 2.99 m 2H 2.70 m 2H 2.45 t J 7.0 Hz 1H 2.36 m 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.63 m 1H 1.49 m 2H 1.37 m 3H 1.23 d J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.02 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.95 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.91 m 21H 0.81 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.80 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.12 s 3H 0.09 s 6H 0.08 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 211.9 159.8 158.8 144.6 144.4 134.9 133.4 132.3 131.8 131.5 131.0 129.0 128.9 128.7 127.7 127.6 127.2 126.8 126.7 126.3 113.5 100.8 87.4 86.7 83.1 74.0 72.9 66.6 65.2 55.22 55.18 48.3 43.1 42.5 41.6 38.3 35.5 32.7 31.5 31.3 29.6 26.1 26.0 19.0 18.5 18.1 14.5 14.1 12.1 9.7 2.9 4.0 4.1 4.2 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 1233.7013 M K found 1233.7036 3.0 c 1.7 CHCl .

13 S 15 S Bis tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 2 4 methoxy benzyl 5 S methyl 1 3 S dioxan 4 yl 9 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 6 S 8 S 10 S 16 R tetramethyl 19 trityloxy nonadeca 11 17 dien 3 ol 74 . To a solution of 73 0.27 g in MeOH 4 ml was added NaBH 0.013 g at 0 C. After stirring for 2 h at 0 C. the reaction mixture was evaporated and water 5 ml was added. The reaction mixture was extracted with ether 2 20 ml and washed with brine 10 ml dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 4.5 to yield 0.19 g of major product 74 71 and 0.069 g 25 of minor product as a colorless oil major isomer IR CHCl 3533 2956 2929 2855 1614 1515 1462 1250 1072 1036 835 774 734 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.51 m 6H 7.43 m 2H 7.30 m 11H 6.92 m 2H 6.84 m 2H 5.78 dd J 15.6 6.1 Hz 1H 5.61 m 1H 5.57 s 1H 5.43 m 2H 4.65 m 1H 4.55 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.45 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 4.18 dd J 11.2 4.5 Hz 1H 3.95 m 1H 3.84 s 3H 3.82 m 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.74 m 1H 3.59 m 2H 3.06 m 2H 2.78 m 1H 2.41 m 1H 2.19 m 1H 1.81 m 2H 1.56 dd J 13.8 8.1 Hz 3H 1.44 m 3H 1.34 m 3H 1.08 d J 7.0 Hz 6H 0.99 d J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.96 m 18H 0.90 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.82 d J 6.6 Hz 6H 0.16 s 3H 0.14 s 6H 0.13 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.0 158.8 144.6 144.4 134.9 133.4 132.3 131.5 130.7 129.0 128.9 128.7 127.7 127.6 127.2 126.8 126.7 126.3 113.7 113.5 89.0 87.5 86.7 76.7 74.0 73.1 72.8 66.6 65.2 55.2 55.1 43.1 42.5 41.8 37.4 35.5 34.4 32.9 32.4 30.4 30.1 26.0 25.9 19.2 18.5 18.1 14.5 14.1 11.9 5.7 2.9 4.0 4.1 4.2 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 1235.7169 M K found 1235.7149 3.5 c 0.6 CHCl .

5 15 S 17 S Tris tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 11 R 4 methoxy benzyloxy 3 S 2 4 methoxy phenyl ethoxy 2 S 4 R 8 S 10 S 12 S 18 R hexamethyl 21 trityloxy heneicosa 13 19 dien 1 ol 76 . To a stirred solution of 74 0.19 g 0.16 mmol and 2 6 lutidine 0.037 mL 0.32 mmol in CHCl 16 mL at 0 C. was added TBDMSOTf 0.055 mL 0.24 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of water 5 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted by CHCland dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the solution under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by short column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 . To a stirred solution of TBS protected acetal 0.20 g 0.15 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 3 mL under an atmosphere of Nat 0 C. was added diisobutylaluminum hydride 1.0 M in THF 1.5 mL 1.5 mmol dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred for additional 1 h at 0 C. The reaction mixture was quenched by the careful addition of aqueous sat d potassium sodium tartrate solution 10 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 h at room temperature. The organic layer was separated and the water layer was extracted by CHCl 20 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the organic solution under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 4 whereupon the pure compound 76 0.19 g 91 for 2 steps was obtained IR CHCl 3466 2955 2928 2856 1613 1514 1462 1249 1072 1037 835 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.52 m 6H 7.30 m 13H 6.94 m 2H 6.85 m 2H 5.79 dd J 15.7 6.3 Hz 1H 5.59 dt J 15.7 5.9 Hz 1H 5.44 m 2H 4.67 m 1H 4.60 s 2H 4.57 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 3.97 m 1H 3.91 m 1H 3.85 s 3H 3.79 s 3H 3.68 m 2H 3.60 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 3.52 dd J 6.6 4.3 Hz 1H 3.07 m 2H 2.97 brs 1H 2.80 dd J 14.5 6.7 Hz 1H 2.40 m 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.95 ddd J 9.6 6.9 4.0 Hz 1H 1.81 m 1H 1.71 m 1H 1.56 m 3H 1.47 m 3H 1.33 m 2H 1.19 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.08 d J 6.7 Hz 6H 1.00 s 9H 0.97 m 21H 0.90 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.82 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.17 s 3H 0.15 s 3H 0.14 s 3H 0.137 s 3H 0.133 s 3H 0.127 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.3 158.8 144.6 144.4 135.0 133.6 132.5 131.4 130.6 129.2 129.0 128.9 128.7 127.7 127.6 126.8 126.7 126.3 113.9 113.5 87.4 86.7 85.9 75.3 74.0 73.6 72.8 66.6 65.2 65.1 55.2 55.1 43.2 42.5 42.0 41.5 37.0 35.6 33.4 32.9 31.9 30.1 26.08 26.05 25.98 19.4 18.4 18.1 15.8 14.4 13.9 10.0 2.9 3.7 3.9 4.1 4.2 4.4 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 1351.8190 M K . found 1351.8134 6.1 c 0.48 CHCl .

7 17 S 19 S Tris tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 5 S 13 R bis 4 methoxy benzyloxy 4 S 6 S 10 R 12 S 14 S 20 S hexamethyl 23 trityloxy tetracosa 1 3 15 21 tetraen 77 . The alcohol 76 0.17 g 0.13 mol in CHCl 5 ml was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 0.081 g 0.2 mol . After 1 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 5 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 5 ml 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 4.5 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. To a stirred solution of the above crude aldehyde and 1 bromoallyl trimethylsilane 160 mg 0.65 mmol in anhydrous THF 3 ml under an atmosphere of Nat room temperature was added CrCl 0.13 g 1.1 mmol and the mixture was stirred for additional 14 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with hexane followed by filtration through celite. After the evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure the residue was purified by short silica gel column chromatography using EtOAc hexane 1 9 . The foregoing product in THF 3 ml was cooled to 0 C. and NaH 95 w w 64 mg 2.56 mmol was added in one portion. The ice bath was removed after 15 min and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with HO 5 ml extracted with ethyl ether 5 ml 2 . The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over MgSOfollowed by the evaporation of the organic solution under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc 9 1 whereupon the pure compound 77 122 mg 72 for 3 steps was obtained IR CHCl 2955 2928 2856 1613 1514 1462 1249 1072 1039 835 773 705 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.47 m 6H 7.28 m 13H 6.89 m 2H 6.79 m 2H 6.61 ddd J 16.8 10.7 10.6 Hz 1H 6.04 t J 10.8 Hz 1H 5.73 dd J 15.6 6.3 Hz 1H 5.61 t J 10.4 Hz 1H 5.58 m 1H 5.37 m 2H 5.20 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.11 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 4.54 m 3H 4.50 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.37 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 3.90 m 1H 3.82 s 3H 3.76 s 3H 3.62 m 1H 3.54 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 3.35 dd J 7.7 3.1 Hz 1H 3.00 m 2H 2.73 m 1H 2.31 m 1H 1.69 m 4H 1.43 m 8H 1.14 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.00 d J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.96 s 9H 0.92 s 3H 0.91 s 3H 0.89 m 6H 0.83 d J 6.6 Hz 3H 0.72 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.11 s 3H 0.10 s 3H 0.08 s 3H 0.07 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.0 158.8 144.6 144.4 135.0 134.6 133.7 133.4 132.6 132.4 131.5 131.4 129.1 129.0 128.98 128.94 128.7 127.7 126.8 126.3 117.2 113.7 113.5 87.3 86.7 84.3 75.0 74.0 72.9 72.8 66.6 65.2 55.2 55.1 43.2 42.6 42.0 40.6 35.7 35.3 33.2 32.8 32.3 30.1 26.1 26.0 19.4 18.8 18.3 18.2 18.1 14.4 14.0 13.9 2.9 3.6 3.9 4.1 4.2 4.4 2.5 c 1.2 CHCl .

7 S 9 S 19 Tris tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 13 R 21 S bis 4 methoxy benzyloxy 6 R 12 S 14 S 16 S 20 R 22 S hexamethyl hexacosa 2 4 10 23 25 pentaenoic acid methyl ester 79 . A solution of 77 18.6 mg in CHCl 0.2 ml was cooled to 78 C. and B chlorocatecholborane 0.25 M in CHCl 0.17 ml was added. The solution was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h followed by treatment with sat d aqueous NaHCO 1 ml . The resulting reaction mixture was then diluted with CHCl 10 ml and HO 3 ml . The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was further extracted with CHCl 2 5 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by flash chromatography hexane EtOAc 4 1 on silica gel to yield 78 9.4 mg as a colorless oil. The alcohol 78 20 mg 0.018 mol in CHCl 0.5 mL was treated with Dess Martin periodinane 12 mg 0.028 mol . After 1 h the mixture was quenched with saturated NaHCO 1 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl ether 3 ml 2 and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous MgSO. Filtration and concentration followed by short flash column chromatography filtration hexane EtOAc 4.5 1 to remove the residue from Dess Martin reagent provided crude aldehyde as a colorless oil which was used for the next reaction without further purification. To a stirred solution of bis 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl methoxycarbonylmethyl phosphate 0.005 ml 0.024 mol 18 crown 6 0.024 g 0.09 mmol in THF 0.5 ml cooled to 78 C. was added dropwise potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide 0.044 ml 0.022 mol 0.5M solution in toluene . Thereafter the above aldehyde in THF 0.5 ml was added and the solution was stirred for 6 h at 78 C. The reaction mixture was quenched by addition of a sat d NHCl solution 1 ml and diluted with diethyl ether 5 ml . The layers were separated and organic phase was washed with brine 5 ml and dried with MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 9 yielding 17 mg of E Z doubly unsaturated ester 79 82 for 2 steps IR CHCl 2956 2929 2856 1720 1613 1514 1462 1249 1173 1075 836 773 cm H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.22 m 5H 6.82 m 4H 6.55 ddd J 16.8 10.8 10.8 Hz 1H 6.38 t J 11.4 Hz 1H 6.05 dd J 15.4 6.2 Hz 1H 5.98 t J 11.0 Hz 1H 5.55 t J 10.5 Hz 1H 5.48 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 5.31 m 2H 5.14 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 5.05 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 4.54 m 1H 4.49 m 3H 4.31 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 3.87 m 1H 3.77 s 3H 3.75 s 3H 3.68 s 3H 3.57 m 1H 3.29 dd J 7.7 3.1 Hz 1H 2.94 m 2H 2.68 m 1H 2.48 m 1H 1.65 m 3H 1.43 1.28 m 6H 1.20 m 2H 1.08 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.96 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.94 d J 6.1 Hz 3H 0.90 s 9H 0.86 m 21H 0.81 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.71 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.06 s 3H 0.05 s 3H 0.04 s 3H 0.02 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.9 159.0 158.8 147.7 146.9 145.8 134.6 133.5 132.7 132.5 131.6 131.4 129.1 128.9 128.8 128.7 128.4 127.9 127.7 127.3 126.4 117.2 114.9 113.7 113.6 87.6 84.3 77.2 74.9 74.2 72.9 72.7 66.4 55.3 55.2 50.9 43.1 42.5 42.1 40.6 35.8 35.3 33.6 33.2 32.9 18.14 18.11 14.6 13.9 9.3 2.9 3.6 3.9 4.1 4.4 HRMS ESI calcd for CHOSiK 1185.7408 M K . found 1185.7464 12.6 c 0.75 CHCl .

8 S 10 S 14 R 20 Tetrahydroxy 7 S 13 S 15 S 17 R 21 S pentamethyl 22 S 1 S methyl penta 2 4 dienyl oxa cyclodocosa 3 5 11 trien 2 one 83 . The ester 79 8.5 mg 7.4 mol was dissolved in CHCl 1 ml HO 0.05 ml and DDQ 5.0 mg 22 mol was added at 0 C. After 1 h of stirring at 0 C. the reaction mixture was quenched by adding sat d NaHCO 5 ml . The organic phase was washed by sat d NaHCOsolution 3 10 ml and brine dried over MgSOand concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 4.5 furnished diol 6.4 mg 95 as a colorless oil. To the stirried solution of the above diol 6.4 mg 7.06 mol in EtOH 0.7 ml was added 1N aqueous KOH solution 0.07 ml and the mixture was refluxed gently until the ester disappeared about 7 h as determined by TLC. The ethanolic solution was concentrated and then diluted with ether 4 ml . After the solution was acidified to pH3 with 1N HCl solution organic phase was separated and aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 2 ml . The combined organic phase were dried with MgSO concentrated and used as crude without further purification. A solution of above dihydroxy acid in THF 0.5 ml was treated at 0 C. with EtN 0.006 ml 43 mol and 2 4 6 trichlorobenzoyl chloride 0.0055 ml 35 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min and then added to a 4 DMAP 3.5 ml 0.02 M solution in toluene at 25 C. and stirred for overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated EtOAc 5 mL was added and the crude was washed with 1N HCl 2 5 ml dried over MgSO. Purification by flash column chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 9 furnished macrolactone 3.0 mg 49 for 2 steps as a colorless oil. To a stirred solution of the above macrolactone 2.7 mg 3.1 mol in MeOH 0.5 ml at 0 C. was added 0.5 ml of 3 N HCl prepared by adding 25 ml of conc. HCl to 75 ml MeOH . After 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 2 ml and HO 2 ml and the organic phase was separated and aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 2 ml . The combined organic phase was washed with sat d NaHCO 5 ml dried with MgSO concentrated and the residue was purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexane 1 1 to yield 83 1.2 mg 73 IR CHCl 3400 2960 2926 2854 1693 1635 1599 1461 1378 1277 1183 1075 964 cm H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 7.34 dd J 15.3 11.3 Hz 1H 6.64 ddd J 16.9 10.5 10.3 Hz 1H 6.57 t J 11.4 Hz 1H 5.96 t J 10.9 Hz 1H 5.95 dd J 15.3 8.3 Hz 1H 5.48 t J 10.0 Hz 1H 5.47 d J 11.6 Hz 1H 5.38 dd J 11.1 8.9 Hz 1H 5.27 t J 10.5 Hz 1H 5.16 d J 16.9 Hz 1H 5.08 d J 10.2 Hz 1H 5.02 dd J 8.0 3.5 Hz 1H 4.65 dt J 3.1 8.4 Hz 1H 3.72 ddd J 9.0 6.3 2.8 Hz 1H 3.25 ddd J 10.2 7.4 2.8 Hz 1H 3.16 dd J 5.4 3.4 Hz 1H 3.06 dd J 16.3 8.3 Hz 1H 2.72 ddd J 10.2 6.7 6.6 Hz 1H 2.36 dd J 14.7 7.2 Hz 1H 1.86 dt J 6.6 3.1 Hz 1H 1.81 ddd J 10.5 6.8 3.7 Hz 1H 1.69 m 2H 1.58 m 1H 1.47 ddd J 13.8 9.5 3.5 Hz 1H 1.37 m 1H 1.25 m 1H 1.17 m 1H 1.13 m 1H 1.09 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.03 d J 6.9 Hz 6H 0.98 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.87 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.76 d J 6.4 Hz 3H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 166.3 147.2 145.3 134.39 134.37 132.5 132.3 130.0 127.6 117.8 116.5 80.0 75.4 74.9 72.0 66.2 43.2 41.5 40.7 40.6 35.6 35.4 35.0 33.0 31.2 30.4 20.4 18.1 17.3 16.2 12.4 10.2 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO571.3 M K found 571.3 32.6 c 0.10 MeOH .

 Z 4R 5S 6S 7S tert butyl 6 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxy 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 11 heptadecafluoroundecyloxy benzyloxy 5 7 dimethylundec 8 enyloxydimethylsilane 85 . A mixture solution of 84 0.40 g 0.39 mmol in MeOH 8.0 ml and CHCl 5.3 ml was cooled to 78 C. and treated with a stream of ozone for 10 min. The reaction mixture was treated with dimethysulfide 2.0 ml and pyridine 32 l and stirred for 3.0 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated and diluted with EtO 80 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous CuSO 2 20 ml and brine 20 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. At ambient temperature a suspension of propyltriphenylphosphonium bromide 0.383 g 98 purity 0.97 mmol in THF 15.0 ml was added NaN TMS 1.0 M solution in THF 0.98 ml at ambient temperature. After stirring 1 h this solution was cooled to 78 C. Then the crude residue in THF 2.0 ml was introduced and the resultant mixture was stirred for 3 h at 78 C. and was allowed to warm to ambient temperature for 12 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 ml and extracted with EtO 2 40 ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 20 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Flash chromatography 10 AcOEt hexane afforded 85 0.08 g 26 yield H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 0.06 s 6H 0.91 s 9H 0.93 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 1.00 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.06 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.47 m 2H 1.59 m 1H 1.66 m 1H 1.83 m 1H 1.94 m 2H 2.11 m 2H 2.33 m 2H 2.66 m 1H 3.35 m 1H 3.60 t J 6.3 Hz 2H 3.88 s 6H 4.04 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 4.38 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.48 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.53 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.59 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 5.35 dt J 7.0 10.3 Hz 1H 5.42 dd J 10.3 10.1 Hz 1H 6.82 7.02 m 4H 7.21 7.28 m 2H C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 5.2 10.3 14.5 18.4 18.9 20.6 20.9 25.9 26.9 28.0 t J 22.5 Hz 29.0 34.9 39.3 55.8 55.9 63.2 66.4 70.8 74.7 79.4 84.2 110.5 110.9 114.3 119.9 106 122 m 129.6 131.1 131.3 131.5 131.6 132.0 148.4 148.9 158.2 IR thin film NaCl cm2933 2858 1729 1612 1515 1465 1242 1153 1032 834 MS EI m z 1060 M 1035 1003 909 567 2.37 c 0.590 CHCl .

 4R 5S 6S 7S tert butyl 6 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxy 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 13 heneicosafluorotridecyloxyo benzyloxy 5 7 dimethyl non 8 enyloxydimethylsilane 84 . A solution of the alcohol 0.26 g 0.57 mmol and 1 bromomethyl 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 13 heneicosafluorotridecyloxy benzene 0.50 g 0.66 mmol in THF 6.0 ml was cooled to 40 C. and BuOK 1.0 M solution in THF 0.70 ml was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3.0 h. Then BuOK 1.0 M solution in THF 0.40 ml was added again and the reaction solution was allowed to warm to ambient temperature for 9 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 ml and extracted with EtO 2 40 ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 20 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Flash chromatography 10 AcOEt hexane afforded 84 0.326 g 50 yield H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.55 s 6H 0.91 s 9H 1.06 apparent d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.49 m 2H 1.64 m 2H 1.93 m 1H 2.07 m 2H 2.21 2.48 m 3H 3.38 m 2H 3.61 t J 6.1 Hz 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 4.00 t J 5.7 Hz 2H 4.39 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.47 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.56 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 5.00 m 2H 5.92 m 1H 6.79 6.91 m 4H 7.27 apparent d J 8.4 Hz 2H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 10.5 14.0 17.3 18.3 20.6 22.7 25.9 26.9 28.0 t J 22.2 Hz 29.0 38.5 42.1 55.7 55.8 63.1 66.3 70.9 74.3 79.9 83.7 110.9 111.1 114.3 114.6 119.9 105 124 m 129.5 131.6 131.9 141.2 148.5 148.9 158.2 IR thin film NaCl cm2928 2858 1611 1515 1242 1154 MS EI m z 1132 M 1075 981 817 667 465 3.15 c 1.11 CHCl .

 Z 4R 5S 6S 7S tert Butyl 6 3 4 dimethoxy benzyloxy 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 13 heneicosafluorotridecyloxy benzyloxy 9 iodo 5 7 dimethylnon 8 enyloxydimethylsilane 86 . A mixture of 84 0.326 g 0.28 mmol in MeOH 8.0 ml and CHCl 6.0 ml was cooled to 78 C. and treated with a stream of ozone for 5 min. The reaction mixture was treated with dimethylsulfide 1.5 ml and pyridine 23 l and stirred for 3.0 h at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated and diluted with EtO 80 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous CuSO 2 20 ml and brine 20 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. At ambient temperature a suspension of iodomethyl triphenylphosphonium iodide 0.213 g 0.40 mmol in THF 3.0 ml was added NaN TMS 1.0 M solution in THF 0.40 ml . After stirring 0.5 h this solution was cooled to 78 C. Then HMPA 0.13 ml and the crude residue in THF 2.0 ml were introduced and the resultant mixture was stirred for 20 min at 78 C. and stirred at ambient temperature for 0.5 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 ml and extracted with EtO 2 40 ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 20 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Flash chromatography 10 AcOEt hexane afforded Z 4R 5S 6S 7S tert butyl 6 3 4 dimethoxy benzyloxy 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 13 heneicosafluorotridecyloxy benzyloxy 9 iodo 5 7 dimethylnon 8 enyloxy dimethylsilane 0.119 g 33 yield H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.04 s 6H 0.89 s 9H 1.03 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.04 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.23 1.77 m 5H 2.04 m 2H 2.23 m 2H 2.70 m 1H 3.44 m 2H 3.59 t J 6.3 Hz 2H 3.86 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 4.03 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 4.40 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.53 s 2H 4.57 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 6.15 d J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.28 dd J 7.3 9.0 Hz 1H 6.80 6.89 m 4H 7.22 7.30 m 2H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 5.2 10.2 14.2 17.2 18.4 20.7 22.8 26.0 27.3 28.0 t J 22.1 Hz 29.8 31.7 40.2 42.9 51.4 55.9 56.0 63.3 66.4 71.1 75.4 78.9 82.2 84.1 107 122 m 110.9 111.2 114.4 120.1 129.5 131.6 131.8 143.2 148.6 148.9 158.2 IR thin film NaCl cm2956 2859 1727 1611 1514 1467 1243 1154 856 MS EI m z 1201 M CH 1107 667 4.040 c 1.01 CHCl .

 Z 4R 5S 6S 7S tert butyl 6 3 4 dimethoxybenzyloxy 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 13 heneicosafluorotridecyloxy benzyloxy 5 7 dimethyl 9 phenyl non 8 enyloxydimethylsilane 87 . To a solution of Z 4R 5S 6S 7S tert butyl 6 3 4 dimethoxy benzyloxy 4 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 13 13 heneicosafluorotridecyloxy benzyloxy 9 iodo 5 7 dimethylnon 8 enyloxy dimethylsilane 0.120 g 0.09 mmol and Pd PPh 0.011 g 0.01 mmol in THF 1.0 ml was added PhZnI 0.5 M solution in THF 0.97 ml at ambient temperature. After stirring for 24 h the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 ml and extracted with EtO 2 40 ml . The combined extracts were washed with brine 20 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. Flash chromatography 10 AcOEt hexane afforded 87 0.0726 g 63 yield H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 0.09 s 6H 0.95 s 9H 1.07 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.19 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.27 1.59 m 4H 1.85 m 1H 2.13 m 2H 2.35 m 2H 3.11 m 2H 3.39 brt J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.57 t J 6.2 Hz 2H 3.84 s 3H 3.91 s 3H 4.02 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.08 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 4.32 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.52 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 4.67 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 5.83 dd J 11.5 11.5 Hz 1H 6.53 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 6.86 7.37 m 9H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 5.2 10.2 14.2 18.4 18.9 20.7 22.8 26.1 27.3 27.8 t J 21.7 Hz 28.9 31.7 35.6 39.7 55.8 56.0 63.3 66.4 71.2 75.2 79.9 84.6 107 122 m 110.9 111.2 114.3 120.0 126.7 128.3 128.7 128.9 129.3 131.9 135.3 137.8 148.5 148.9 158.1 IR thin film NaCl cm2926 2857 1727 1515 1464 1242 1154 1031 MS EI m z 1208 M 1151 1066 667 3.73 c 0.805 CHCl .

 2R Butane 1 2 4 triol. To a dry 1Ltwo necked flask equipped with a pressure equalizing addition funnel a magnetic stirring bar and a reflux condenser was added THF 200 mL B OMe 100 mL and R malic acid 40.0 g 0.30 mol . To this solution was added dropwise BH SMe 100 mL 1.0 mol over 2 h in a water bath as instantaneous Hevolution occurred throughout the addition. After stirring for 20 h at rt MeOH 200 mL was added dropwise and the resulting solution was filtered through a glass frit funnel charged with Celite to remove any solids. The clear yellow filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a yellow oil. The residue was dissolved in MeOH 100 mL and concentrated in vacuo. This was repeated 5 times giving 26.9 g of the triol 85 . The spectral data matched that of the known compound.

 2R 2 4 Methoxyphenyl 1 3 dioxan 4 yl methanol 88 . A solution of the triol 5.0 g 47.1 mmol p anisaldehyde 9.62 g 70.7 mmol PPTS 0.12 g 0.047 mmol in benzene 100 mL was refluxed for 10 h with the azeotropic removal of HO NaHCO 0.20 g 2.4 mmol was added to the solution and concentrated in vacuo. The crude mixture was purified by flash chromatography 20 to 50 EtOAc in hexanes to give 88 65 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.41 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.90 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.49 s 1H 4.28 ddd J 11.1 5.1 1.3 Hz 1H 4.00 3.95 m 2H 3.79 s 3H 3.67 3.64 m 2H 2.04 br s 1H 1.91 dq J 12.4 5.1 Hz 1H 1.46 1.41 m 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.1 132.0 127.4 113.6 101.2 76.6 66.5 65.6 55.3 26.9.

 2R tert Butyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 dioxan 4 ylmethoxy diphenylsilane. A solution of alcohol 88 8.13 g 36.2 mmol imidazole 3.9 g 57.3 mmol and TBDPSCl 10.2 mL 39.7 mmol in DMF 75 mL was stirred overnight at room temperature under argon. A mixture of HO 250 mL and EtOAc 150 mL was added and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 100 mL . The organic layers were combined and washed with HO 2 100 mL brine 100 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash chromatography 20 EtOAc in hexanes to yield 15.9 g 95 of the silyl ether as a clear yellow oil. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.66 m 4H 7.41 7.34 m 8H 6.86 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 5.46 s 1H 4.28 dd J 11.0 4.2 Hz 1H 4.02 3.96 m 2H 3.86 3.83 m 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.67 dd J 10.2 5.6 Hz 1H 1.84 dq J 12.2 4.9 Hz 1H 1.65 1.61 m 1H 1.05 s 9H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 160.0 135.7 133.4 130.0 129.6 128.2 128.0 113.4 101.0 77.5 66.9 66.0 55.3 28.1 26.8 19.3.

4 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy butan 1 ol. To a stirred solution of the acetal 5.0 g 10.8 mmol in toluene 20 mL at 78 C. was added slowly via cannula DibalH in toluene 33.0 mL 1M . The reaction mixture was maintained at 78 C. for 12 h and quenched by slow addition to a vigorously stirred saturated solution of Rochelle salt in HO 70 mL . The emulsion was stirred until two layers formed 1 h . The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 4 15 mL and the organic layers were combined dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash chromotaography 20 to 50 EtOAc in hexanes providing 4.01 g 80 of the corresponding alcohol as a clear yellow oil. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.66 m 4H 7.43 7.38 m 6H 7.20 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.86 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.60 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.41 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.77 3.66 m 5H 1.82 1.79 m 2H 1.05 s 9H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.3 135.5 133.2 129.4 129.0 128.0 127.6 113.8 78.3 72.1 66.4 60.2 55.2 34.2 26.8 19.1.

4 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy butyraldehyde 89 . DMSO 0.9 mL 12.8 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of oxalyl chloride 0.5 mL 6.0 mmol in CHCl 8.0 mL at 78 C. under argon. The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min then a solution of the alcohol 2.04 g 4.41 mmol in CHCl 27.0 mL was added dropwise. After 1 h at 78 C. EtN 3.15 mL 22.4 mmol was added slowly via syringe the mixture was stirred for 5 min then warmed to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 30 mL washed with ice cold 0.5 M HCl 50 mL then HO 40 mL and the layers were separated. The aqueous layers were combined and extracted with CHCl 2 40 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The intermediate aldehyde 89 was used in the following reaction without purification H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.76 s 1H 7.67 7.63 m 4H 7.44 7.34 m 6H 7.16 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.83 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.52 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.41 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.03 3.99 m 1H 3.81 s 3H 3.79 3.74 m 2H 3.68 3.63 m 1H 2.67 dd J 6.1 1.9 Hz 1H 1.04 s 9H .

 3R 4R 6R 7 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 6 4 methoxybenzyloxy 3 methylhept 1 en 4 ol 90 . A solution of R R diisopropyl tartrate Z crotylboronate 15.0 mmol was added to 4 powdered molecular sieves 0.170 g in toluene 8.4 mL under argon and the mixture was stirred for 20 min at room temperature. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde 89 2.0 g 4.4 mmol in toluene 5.0 mL was added dropwise via cannula. The resulting mixture was maintained at 78 C. for 3 h and then treated with NaBH 0.072 g 1.75 mmol in EtOH 2.0 mL and warmed to 0 C. The reaction mixture was treated with 1N NaOH 30 mL and stirred vigorously for 30 min followed by separation of the organic layer. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 5 55 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash chromatography 5 to 20 EtO in hexanes providing 1.43 g 63 2 seps of alcohol a clear oil 0.32 c 1.8 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.67 d J 7.0 Hz 2H 7.45 7.35 m 6H 7.20 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.84 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.73 ddd J 18.2 11.0 7.4 Hz 1HO 5.03 dd J 11.0 1.7 Hz 1H 5.02 dd J 18.2 1.7 Hz 1H 4.59 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.40 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.89 3.75 m 2H 3.68 3.65 m 2H 2.18 sext J 6.8 Hz 1H 1.84 1.55 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.01 d J 6.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.0 140.6 135.6 133.5 2C 130.3 131.0 127.6 129.6 114.4 113.6 72.2 83.1 64.1 71.3 55.2 40.8 37.2 26.8 19.2 14.4 IR thin film 3056 2989 2859 1513 1426 1248 1112 1077 cm LRMS EI 517 M H 435 333 303 255 241 223 199 135 121 m z.

 2R 4R 5R 2 4 bis 4 Methoxybenzyloxy 5 methylhept 6 enyloxy tert butyldiphenyl silane. A mixture of NaH 1.8 g 7.23 mmol in THF 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. then DMF 5 mL the alcohol 1.25 g 2.41 mmol in THF 5 mL and PMBBr 1.14 g 6.03 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 48 h. The resulting mixture was poured into a pH 7 phosphate buffer and diluted with ether 85 mL . The organic layer was separated and washed with pH 7 buffer 3 55 mL dried over KCO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude yellow oil was purified by flash chromatography 5 to 10 EtOAc in hexanes providing 0.985 g 64 of the PMB ether a clear yellow tinted oil 0.31 c 1.8 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.65 m 4H 7.39 7.37 m 6H 7.22 7.19 m 4H 6.86 6.84 m 4H 5.73 ddd J 17.8 9.8 7.0 Hz 1H 5.04 4.99 m 2H 4.64 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.30 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.78 s 6H 3.81 3.52 m 4H 2.60 2.56 m 1H 1.57 1.51 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.0 d J 6.9 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.0 140.6 135.6 133.5 2C 130.3 131.0 127.6 129.6 114.4 113.6 72.2 83.1 64.1 75.4 55.2 40.8 37.2 26.8 19.2 14.4 5.3 IR thin film 3055 2985 1422 1280 247 cm LRMS EI 581.34 M CH 579.34 522.34 444 326 383 323 339 301 255 137 122 m z.

 2R 3R 5R 6 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 3 5 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 methylhexanal. To a solution of MeOH 30 mL CHCl 10 mL and a few drops of pyridine was added the PMB ether 800 mg 1.25 mmol and the mixture was cooled to 78 C. Ozone was bubbled through the reaction mixture until a slight purple color was seen. Excess DMS 6.0 mL was added to the solution and allowed to warm to RT. After 3 h the mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The yellow residue was dissolved in hexanes 60 mL and washed with HO 2 40 mL and brine 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the intermediate aldehyde 800 mg 1.25 mmol that was used in the following step without further purification H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.70 d J 2.0 1H 7.69 7.65 m 4H 7.39 7.37 m 6H 7.22 7.19 m 4H 6.86 6.84 m 4H 4.64 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.30 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.78 s 6H 3.81 3.52 m 4H 2.60 2.56 m 1H 1.57 1.51 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.0 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

 4R 5R 7R 8 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 5 7 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 4 methyloct 2 enoic acid ethyl ester 91 . To a stirred suspension of NaH 36 g 1.56 mmol in toluene 10 mL at 0 C. and under argon was added a solution of 2 diethoxyphosphoryl propionic acid ethyl ester 0.47 mL 1.77 mmol in toluene 0.40 mL dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to rt for 30 min then recooled to 0 C. The intermediate aldehyde 0.5 g 1.3 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. The solution was quenched by addition of pH 7 buffer 5 mL and diluted with EtO 12 mL . The emulsion was warmed to rt and the layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with a saturated solution of NHCl 10 mL and the aqueous layers were combined and extracted with EtO 3 20 ml . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude mixture was purified by flash chromatography 0 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes to give 623 mg 70 2 steps of 91 a yellow oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.65 m 4H 7.39 7.37 m 4H 7.21 7.18 m 4H 6.85 6.83 m 4H 6.98 dd J 15.7 7.6 Hz 1H 5.82 dd J 15.7 1.0 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.50 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.36 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.20 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.78 s 6H 3.81 3.52 m 4H 2.60 2.56 m 1H 1.57 1.51 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.0 d J 6.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.3 158.9 150.5 131.0 130.0 129.2 129.1 121.1 113.5 78.4 75.9 71.7 71.2 64.1 59.9 55.0 38.9 34.1 25.7 18.1 14.4 14.1 5.5 IR thin film 3055 2956 2933 2908 2857 1705 1243 1097 cm HRMS EI cald for CHOSi 710.3628 found 371.3627.

 4R 5R 7R 8 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 5 7 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 4 methyloct 2 en 1 ol. To a stirred solution of ester 91 600 mg 0.84 mmol in CHCl 6 mL at 40 C. under argon was added slowly over 10 min via syringe DibalH in toluene 9 mL 1M . After 30 min at 40 C. the reaction mixture was quenched by slow addition of MeOH 0.6 mL and warmed to rt. The reaction mixture was poured into a vigorously stirred solution of saturated Rochelle salt in HO 8 mL and EtOAc 12 mL and stirred overnight. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 5 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude mixture was purified by flash chromatography 20 EtOAc in hexanes to produce 450 mg 80 of the alcohol a clear liquid H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.70 7.66 m 4H 7.39 7.35 m 6H 7.21 7.18 m 4H 6.85 6.82 m 4H 5.68 5.65 m 2H 4.64 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.51 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.46 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.24 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 4.10 4.06 m 2H 3.78 s 6H 3.81 3.52 m 4H 2.60 2.56 m 1H 1.57 1.51 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.03 d J 6.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 159.0 135.6 135.1 133.5 2C 131.1 130.3 130.0 127.6 129.4 129.6 83.1 75.2 72.4 72.2 64.4 63.7 55.2 34.7 26.8 19.2 15.4 IR thin film 3295 3045 2958 2941 2910 2857 1241 1097 cm HRMS EI cald for CHOSi 668.3599 found 668.3596.

 2R 3R 5R 8 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 5 7 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 4 methyl oct 2 enal. To a solution of the alcohol 400 mg 0.59 mmol in CHCl 2 mL was added Dess Martin periodane 330 mg 0.78 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtO 10 mL and poured into a stirring solution of saturated NaSO 5 mL and saturated NaHCO 5 mL . The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with saturated NaHCO 3 5 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the intermediate aldehyde which was used in the next reaction without further purification H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.50 d 7.8 Hz 1H 7.69 7.64 m 4H 7.39 7.37 m 7H 7.20 7.14 m 4H 6.84 6.79 m 4H 6.10 dd J 7.8 17.0 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.30 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.78 s 6H 3.81 3.52 m 4H 2.60 2.56 m 1H 1.57 1.51 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.00 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

 4R 5R 7R 10 tert butyldiphenysilanyloxy 7 9 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 6 methyldeca 2 4 dienoicacid methyl ester. To a stirred solution of bis 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy phosphoryl acetic acid methyl ester 210 mg 0.65 mmol in THF 12 mL at 78 C. under argon was added dropwise KHMDS in toluene 1.4 mL 0.5 M . The reaction mixture was warmed to 40 C. for 1 h then cooled to 78 C. and the intermediate aldehyde 400 mg 0.59 mmol in THF 0.5 mL was added dropwise. After 3 h at 78 C. the solution was warmed to 0 C. and quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NHCl 5 mL and diluted with EtO 5 mL . The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with diethyl ether 5 3 mL . The combined organic phases were washed with brine 5 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude mixture was purified by flash chromatography 10 to 30 EtOAc in hexanes yielding 220 mg 65 2 steps of conjugated ester a clear oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.65 m 4H 7.39 7.37 m 7H 7.20 7.16 m 4H 6.85 6.79 m 4H 6.64 t J 11.2 Hz 1H 6.22 ddd J 15.4 6.8 Hz 1H 5.87 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 5.04 4.99 m 2H 4.64 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 4.30 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 11.1 Hz 1H 3.78 s 6H 3.81 3.52 m 4H 2.60 2.56 m 1H 1.57 1.51 m 2H 1.05 s 9H 1.00 d J 6.9 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.9 147.3 145.4 135.6 133.5 2C 130.3 129.6 126.7 115.5 113.5 78.4 75.9 71.7 71.8 64.1 55.0 51.1 39.7 34.1 26.8 19.2 14.1 IR CHCl 3048 2987 2931 2875 2822 1715 15251 1423 1250 1110 cm HRMS EI cald for 722.3642. found 722.3640 m z.

 6R 7S 9R 10 Hydroxy 7 9 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 6 methyldeca 2 4 dienoic acid Methyl Ester 92 . To a solution of the TBDPS ether 100 mg 0.14 mmol in THF 1 ml was slowly added HF pyridine in pyridine 1.5 ml prepared by slow addition of 0.45 ml pyridine to 0.1 ml HF pyridine complex followed by dilution with 0.94 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was slowly quenched with saturated NaHCO 5 mL and the aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CHCl 5 2 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated CuSO 2 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 25 EtOAc in hexanes affording 50 mg 75 of alcohol 92 8.56 c 0.1 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.53 dd J 15.0 11.4 Hz 1H 7.35 7.30 m 4H 6.97 6.93 m 6H 6.65 dd J 11.3 1.3 Hz 1H 6.23 dd J 15.0 6.9 Hz 1H 5.69 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 4.64 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 4.59 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 4.34 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 3.88 s 3H 3.82 s 3H 2.77 2.73 m 2H 3.67 3.64 m 1H 3.54 dd J 3.6 11.5 Hz 1H 2.95 2.89 m 1H 1.90 1.81 m 2H 1.19 d J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 166.9 159.0 147.3 145.4 130.1 130.3 129.7 126.7 115.5 113.6 75.9 78.5 71.1 63.9 55.0 51.0 38.4 33.7 14.1 IR thin film 3315 3055 2986 2858 1710 1513 1423 1247 1105 cm LRMS EI 484 469 349 425 223 121 m z HRMS EI calcd for CHO484.2582 found 484.2579.

 R R diisopropyl tartrate Z crotylboronate. An oven dried 1Lthree neck round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar and a 100 C. thermometer was charged with 206 mL of anhydrous THF and KOtBu 28.2 g 250 mmol . This mixture was flushed with Ar and cooled to 78 C. then cis 2 butene 23 mL 250 mmol condensed from a gas lecture bottle into a rubber stoppered round bottom flask immersed in a 78 C. dry ice acetone bath was poured into the reaction mixture. n BuLi 100 mL 2.5 M in hexane was then added dropwise via cannula over 1.5 h. After completion of the addition the cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 20 to 25 C. for 30 min before being recooled to 78 C. Triisopropylborate 57.8 mL 250 mmol was added drop wise via cannula to the Z crotylpotassium solution over 2 h. After addition the reaction mixture was maintained at 78 C. for 30 min and then rapidly poured into a 2L separatory funnel containing 470 mL of 1 N HCl saturated with NaCl. The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 1 by using 1 N HCl 100 150 mL and then a solution of R R diisopropyl tartrate 52.8 g 250 mmol in 88 mL of EtO was added. The phases were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional EtO 4 120 mL . The combined extracts were dried over MgSOfor 1 h then vacuum filtered through a fritted glass funnel under Ar blanket into an oven dried round bottom flask. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and pumped to constant weight at under vacuum. Anhydrous toluene 170 mL was added to the flask make a 1M solution.

 4S 3S 2R 4 Benzyl 3 3 hydroxy 2 4 dimethylpent 4 enoyl oxazolidin 2 one 93 . Oxazolidinone 4 10.0 g 43.1 mmol was treated with MgCl 0.20 g 2.2 mmol NaSbF 1.7 g 6.5 mmol EtN 6.03 mL 86.2 mmol methacrolein 2.67 mL 25.9 mmol and TMSCl 3.92 mL 32.3 mmol in EtOAc 50 mL and allowed to stir under Ar at rt for 24 h. The yellow green slurry was filtered through a plug of silica gel with EtO 1L . GC analysis of the solution gave the isomeric composition of the TMS ether in a 16 1 ratio with its diastereomers. The ether was concentrated in vacuo and MeOH 86 mL and TFA 1 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min and concentrated to give a yellow which was purified by flash chromatography 10 acetone in hexanes to yield 5.02 g of alcohol 93 78 2 steps . Data matches known literature 0.06 c 0.1 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.39 7.31 m 5H 5.08 s 1H 5.02 s 1H 4.77 4.75 m 1H 4.27 4.22 m 4H 3.35 dd J 13.5 3.2 Hz 1H 2.83 dd J 13.5 9.5 Hz 1H 2.75 br s 1H 1.86 s 3H 1.19 d J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 175.6 152.9 145.0 135.7 129.3 128.9 127.1 114.5 80.1 65.6 55.5 41.9 38.4 16.1 14.7 IR thin film 3300 3057 2931 2857 1781 1702 1422 1384 1271 1209 1079 cm HRMS EI cald for CHNO303.1582 found 303.1581.

 4R 2S 3R 4 Benzyl 3 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethylpent 4 enoyl oxazolidin 2 one. To a stirred solution of alcohol 93 20.24 g 66.72 mmol in CHCl 170 mL at 0 C. under argon was added 2 6 lutidine 9.3 mL 79.85 mmol and TBSOTf 16.1 mL 73.4 mmol . After 3 h at 0 C. the reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 34 mL then concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in EtO 225 mL and washed with a saturated solution of NHCl 2 50 mL . The aqueous layers were combined and extracted with EtO 2 20 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Flash chromatography of the crude mixture 10 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes gave 26.5 g 95 of the silyl ether as a clear oil 0.07 c 0.15 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.40 7.29 m 5H 5.00 s 1H 4.98 s 1H 4.72 dq J 7.0 3.2 Hz 1H 4.51 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 4.21 4.18 m 3H 3.49 dd J 13.3 3.2 Hz 1H 2.64 dd J 13.3 10.2 Hz 1H 1.80 s 3H 1.03 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.9 s 9H 0.11 s 3H 0.09 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 175.9 153.1 145.0 135.7 129.3 128.9 127.2 114.6 79.4 65.8 55.5 41.9 38.4 25.8 18.1 16.1 14.7 4.7 5.1 IR thin film 3047 2938 2854 1779 1702 1429 1380 1271 1210 1082 cm LRMS EI 417 402 360 290 234 185 117 HRMS EI calcd for CHNOSi 417.2335. found 417.2345.

 4S 2S 3R 4 Benzyl 3 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 5 hydroxy 2 4 dimethylpentanoyl oxazolidin 2 one 94 . A stirred solution of 9 BBN in THF 29 mL 0.5 M was treated with the alkene 5.0 g 11.97 mmol in THF 29 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 24 h then treated sequentially with 1 1 EtOH THF 29 mL pH 7 buffer 29 mL and 30 aq. HO 14.5 mL and stirred for 12 h at rt. The mixture was extracted with diethyl ether 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 15 mL and saturated aqueous NaCl 15 mL then dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the mixture by flash chromatography 20 EtOAc in hexanes gave 94 as a clear oil 3.91 g 75 0.24 c 0.05 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.33 7.23 m 5H 4.69 4.60 m 1H 4.21 dd J 6.8 3.8 Hz 1H 4.17 4.04 m 3H 3.77 3.60 m 2H 3.44 dd J 13.1 3.2 Hz 1H 2.60 dd J 13.1 10.7 Hz 1H 2.50 br s 1H 2.02 1.85 m 1H 1.23 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 1.00 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.9 s 9H 0.14 s 3H 0.09 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 174.7 153.1 135.4 129.3 129.0 127.3 66.1 65.4 55.8 43.9 38.3 37.0 26.7 26.0 18.2 16.4 12.4 4.2 4.8 IR thin film 3538 2927 1780 1700 1273 1201 cm HRMS EI cald for CHNOSi 435.2461 found 435.2460.

 4S 2R 3R 4R Benzyl 3 3 5 bis tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethylpentanoyl oxazolidin 2 one. To a stirred solution of alcohol 94 2.6 g 5.97 mmol in CHCl 15 mL at 0 C. under argon was added 2 6 lutidine 0.83 mL 7.14 mmol and TBSOTf 1.44 mL 6.57 mmol . After 3 h at 0 C. the reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 3 mL then concentrated to dryness. The residue was taken up in EtO 20 mL and washed with a saturated solution of NHCl 2 5 mL . The aqueous layers were combined and extracted with EtO 2 5 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. Flash chromatography of the crude mixture 10 to 20 EtOAc in hexanes gave 3.01 g 95 of the silyl ether as a clear oil 0.24 c 0.05 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.33 7.22 m 5H 4.69 4.61 m 1H 4.24 dd J 3.7 7.0 Hz 1H 4.13 4.11 m 3H 3.76 dd J 6.0 10.3 Hz 1H 3.48 3.42 m 2H 2.60 dd J 10.3 13.1 Hz 1H 2.01 1.87 m 1H 1.17 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.976 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.90 s 9H 0.88 s 9H 0.11 s 3H 0.08 s 3H 0.05 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 175.5 153.1 135.7 129.3 129.0 127.3 74.4 66.0 64.9 55.7 43.2 39.9 38.5 26.1 26.0 18.3 14.4 13.5 4.0 4.6 5.4 2C IR thin film 3057 2952 2860 1781 1699 1382 1259 1100 cm LRMS EI 492 M CH 377 374 199 177 115 HRMS EI calcd for CHNOSi492.3306 found 492.3301.

 2R 3R 4R 3 5 bis tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethylpentan 1 ol 95 . To a stirred solution of silyl ether 5 g 9.09 mmol in THF 50 mL at 0 C. were added MeOH 1.14 mL 27.3 mmol and LiBHin THF 14 mL 2M under argon. The solution was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min and then quenched by the addition of a saturated solution of Rochelle salt in HO 60 mL and stirred for 10 min at 0 C. The mixture was poured into CHCl 100 mL and stirred vigorously until 2 layers appeared 2 h . The aqueous layer was separated extracted with of CHCl 40 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 40 mL dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Flash chromatography 30 EtOAc in hexanes gave 2.32 g 65 of alcohol 95 as a colorless oil 10.0 c 1.2 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.67 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.55 3.50 m 3H 3.39 dd J 10.0 6.5 Hz 1H 2.98 br s 1H 1.87 1.77 m 2H 0.92 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.86 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.83 s 9H 0.81 s 9H 0.03 s 3H 0.01 s 3H 0.03 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 800.2 66.0 65.2 39.7 38.8 25.9 25.6 18.3 18.0 14.9 14.7 5.4 5.3 4.1 IR thin film 3330 2930 2858 1471 1250 1023 cm HRMS EI calcd for CHOSi376.2859 found 376.2858.

 2R 3R 4R 3 5 bis tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 4 dimethylpentanal 96 . Following the procedure for 4 tert butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy butyraldehyde 89 96 can be prepared in a similar manner.

 2R 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 methylpropionic acid methyl ester. A solution of alcohol 10.0 g 84.6 mmol imidazole 9.2 g 133.9 mmol and TBSCl 19.1 g 126.9 mmol in DMF 150 mL was stirred overnight at room temperature under argon. A mixture of HO 500 mL and EtOAc 300 mL was added and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 200 mL . The organic layers were combined and washed with HO 2 200 mL brine 200 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash chromatography 20 EtOAc in hexanes to yield 17.7 g 90 of the silyl ether as a clear yellow oil The spectral data matched that of the known compound. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.62 dd J 6.7 7.0 Hz 1H 3.50 dd J 6.7 7.0 Hz 1H 3.50 m 3 2.48 sext J 7.0 Hz 1H 0.97 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.71 s 9H 0.1 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 175.4 65.2 51.5 42.5 25.7 18.2 13.4 5.5.

 2R 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 methylpropan 1 ol. To a stirred solution of silyl ether 5.0 g 21.5 mmol in CHCl 125 mL at 40 C. under argon was added slowly over 1.5 h via cannula DibalH in toluene 100 mL 1M . After 30 min at 40 C. the reaction mixture was quenched by slow addition of MeOH 15 mL and warmed to RT. The reaction mixture was poured into a vigorously stirred solution of saturated Rochelle salt 200 mL and EtOAc 300 mL and stirred overnight. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude mixture was purified by flash chromatography 20 EtOAc in hexanes to produce 3.46 g 79 of the alcohol a clear liquid. The spectral data matched that of the known compound H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3.73 dd J 4.5 9.8 Hz 1H 3.57 m 3H 2.80 br s 1H 1.99 1.86 m 1H 0.89 s 9H 0.82 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.06 d 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 68.8 68.4 37.0 25.8 18.1 13.0 5.6.

 2R 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 methyl propionaldehyde ent 17 . DMSO 3.0 mL 42.6 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of oxalyl chloride 1.5 mL 19.9 mmol in CHCl 80 mL at 78 C. under argon. The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min then a solution of alcohol 3.0 g 14.7 mmol in CHCl 25 mL was added dropwise. After 1 h at 78 C. EtN 10.5 mL 74.7 mmol was added slowly via syringe the mixture was stirred for 5 min then warmed to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 25 mL washed with ice cold 0.5 M HCl 50 mL then HO 30 mL and the layers were separated. The aqueous layers were combined and extracted with CHCl 2 30 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The intermediate aldehyde ent 17 was used in the following reaction without purification H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.75 1.5H 1H 3.86 3.82 m 2H 2.53 2.50 m 1H 1.10 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.88 s 9H 0.05 s 6H .

 3S 4S 5S 2 4 dimethyl 1 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy hexene 5 en 3 ol 97 . A solution of R R diisopropyl tartrate E crotylboronate 22.1 mmol was added to 4 powdered molecular sieves 0.025 g in toluene 1 mL under argon and the mixture was stirred for 20 min at room temperature. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and a solution of the aldehyde ent 17 3.0 g 14.7 mmol in toluene 8 mL was added dropwise via syringe. The resulting mixture was maintained at 78 C. for 3 h and then treated with NaBH 0.106 g 2.6 mmol in EtOH 4 mL and warmed to 0 C. The reaction mixture was treated with 1N NaOH 40 mL and stirred vigorously for 30 min followed by separation of the organic layer. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 5 80 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude oil was purified by flash chromatography 5 to 25 EtO in hexanes providing 2.87 g 65 of 97 a clear yellow tinted oil H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 5.91 ddd J 8.8 12.0 15.8 Hz 1H 5.05 dd J 1.8 12.0 Hz 1H 5.04 dd J 1.8 15.8 Hz 1H 3.81 s 1H 3.73 dd J 4.2 9.8 Hz 1H 3.60 dd J 8.2 9.8 Hz 1H 3.37 dd J 3.0 4.8 Hz 1H 2.39 2.29 m 1H 1.83 1.70 m 1H 1.09 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.89 s 9H 0.81 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.06 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 139.9 114.9 80.2 68.7 41.2 37.5 25.8 2C 18.1 17.7 13.4 5.6 5.7.

 2S 3S 4S tert Butyl 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 4 dimethylhex 5 enyloxy dimethylsilane. A mixture of NaH 2.9 g 11.6 mmol in THF 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. then DMF 5 mL alcohol 97 1.0 g 3.87 mmol in THF 5 mL and PMBBr 1.8 g 9.7 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 48 h. The resulting mixture was poured into a pH 7 phosphate buffer and diluted with ether 90 mL . The organic layer was separated and washed with pH 7 buffer 3 60 mL dried over KCO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude yellow oil was purified by flash chromatography 5 to 10 EtOAc in hexanes providing 1.39 g 75 of the PMB ether as a clear yellow tinted oil 0.06 c 1.3 CHCl H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.31 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.90 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 5.93 ddd J 15.6 12.0 8.3 Hz 1H 5.05 d J 12 Hz 1H 5.04 d J 15.6 1H 3.89 s 3H 3.29 dd J 4.6 2.9 Hz 1H 2.51 2.49 m 1H 1.91 1.86 m 1H 1.01 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.08 s 6H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 158.9 142.1 131.2 129.2 114.0 113.6 82.8 74.1 65.7 55.7 38.4 37.3 25.9 18.2 15.6 11.2 5.2 IR thin film 3057 2957 2857 1612 1513 1246 1085 cm LRMS EI 323 M CH 321 271 255 186 122 m z.

 2S 3S 4S 5 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 3 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 4 dimethyl pentanal 98 . Following the procedure for 2R 3R 5R 6 tert Butyldiphenylsilanyloxy 3 5 bis 4 methoxybenzyloxy 2 methylhexanal 98 can be prepared in a similar manner.

 R R Diisopropyl tartrate E crotylboronate. An oven dried 1Lthree neck round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar and a 100 C. thermometer was charged with 206 mL of anhydrous THF and KOtBu 28.2 g 250 mmol . This mixture was flushed with Ar and cooled to 78 C. then trans 2 butene 23 mL 250 mmol condensed from a gas lecture bottle into a rubber stoppered round bottom flask immersed in a 78 C. dry ice acetone bath was poured into the reaction mixture. n BuLi 100 mL 2.5 M in hexane was then added dropwise via cannula over 1.5 h. After completion of the addition the cooling bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to an internal temperature of 50 C. for 15 min then immediately recooled to 78 C. Triisopropylborate 57.8 mL 250 mmol was added drop wise via cannula to the E crotylpotassium solution over 2 h. After addition the reaction mixture was maintained at 78 C. for 30 min and then rapidly poured into a 2L separatory funnel containing 470 mL of 1 N HCl saturated with NaCl. The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 1 by using 1 N HCl 100 150 mL and then a solution of R R diisopropyl tartrate 52.8 g 250 mmol in 88 mL of EtO was added. The phases were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional EtO 4 120 mL . The combined extracts were dried over MgSOfor 1 h then vacuum filtered through a fritted glass funnel under Ar blanket into an oven dried round bottom flask. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and pumped to constant weight at under vacuum. Anhydrous toluene 170 mL was added to the flask make a 1M solution.

General. Tubulin without microtubule associated proteins was prepared from fresh bovine brains 32 The normoisotopic and tritiated forms of paclitaxel and normoisotopic docetaxel were provided by the Drug Synthesis and Chemistry Branch National Cancer Institute. Discodermolide was from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation. Ca and Mg free RPMI 1640 culture medium were from GIBCO BRL Life Technologies. Fetal bovine serum FBS was from Hyclone. Cell lines were obtained from American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. .

Tubulin Polymerization 32 Tubulin assembly was followed in a Beckman Coulter 7400 spectrophotometer equipped with an electronic Peltier temperature controller reading absorbance turbidity at 350 nm. Reaction mixtures 0.25 mL final volume contained tubulin final concentration 10 M 1 mg mL monosodium glutamate 0.8 M from a stock solution adjusted to pH 6.6 with HCl DMSO final volume 4 v v and differing concentrations of test agent where indicated. Reaction mixtures without test agent were cooled to 0 C. and added to cuvettes held at 0.25 0.5 C. in the spectrophotometer. Test agent in DMSO was then rapidly mixed in the reaction mixture. Each run contained one positive control paclitaxel 10 M final concentration and one negative control DMSO only . Baselines were established at 0.25 2.5 C. and temperature was rapidly raised to 30 C. in approximately 1 min and held there for 20 min. The temperature was then rapidly lowered back to 0.25 2.5 C.

Cell Growth Inhibition 34 Cells were plated 500 2000 cells well depending on the cell line in 96 well microplates allowed to attach and grow for 48 h then treated with vehicle 4 DMSO a concentration that allowed doubling times of 24 h or less or test agent 50 10 2 0.4 and 0.08 M for the new agents 0.001 0.005 0.010 0.020 and 0.100 M for paclitaxel and discodermolide for the given times. One plate consisted of cells from each line used for a time zero cell number determination. The other plates in a given determination contained eight wells of control cells eight wells of medium and each agent concentration tested in quadruplicate. Cell numbers were obtained spectrophotometrically absorbance at 490 nm minus that at 630 nm in a Dynamax plate reader after treatment with 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 5 3 carboxymethoxyphenyl 2 4 sulfophenyl 2H tetrazolium MTS using phenazine methanesulfonate as the electron acceptor. After initial screening with the above 5 fold dilutions fifty percent growth inhibitory concentration GI values were determined for each agent by repeating the screen using 2 fold dilutions five concentrations centered on the initial estimated GIconcentration again in quadruplicate.

Paclitaxel binding site inhibition assay. 34 A stock solution of H paclitaxel 26.8 M 16.2 Ci mmol obtained from the NCI was prepared in 37 v v DMSO. The test agents were prepared in 25 v v DMSO 0.75 M monosodium glutamate prepared from a 2M stock solution adjusted to pH 6.6 with HCl . The radiolabeled paclitaxel and test agents as indicated in terms of final concentrations were mixed in equal volumes and warmed to 37 C. A reaction mixture 50 L containing 0.75 M monosodium glutamate 4.0 M tubulin and 40 M ddGTP a non hydrolyzable analog of GTP was prepared and incubated at 37 C. for 30 min to preform microtubules. An equivalent volume of drug mixture with H paclitaxel was added to preformed polymer and incubated for 30 min at 37 C. Bound H paclitaxel was separated from free drug by centrifugation of the reaction mixtures at 14000 rpm for 20 min at room temperature. Non specific binding was determined by addition of a 12 fold excess of docetaxel. Radioactive counts from the supernatant 50 L were determined by scintillation spectrometry. Bound H paclitaxel was calculated from the following total paclitaxel added to each reaction mixture minus the paclitaxel present in the supernatant free drug . The bound values were normalized to the control values with no inhibitor added.

The foregoing description and accompanying drawings set forth the preferred embodiments of the invention at the present time. Various modifications additions and alternative designs will of course become apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing teachings without departing from the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is indicated by the following claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes and variations that fall within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

