---

title: Stovetop fire suppression system and method
abstract: A stovetop fire suppression system is provided which senses the stovetop environment, assesses a fire condition, and limits a fuel or electricity heat source upon determination of a stovetop fire condition. Either, or both of, sound or heat may be monitored for the presence of a fire. Sensed day can be processed for spectral density or rate of rise for subsequent comparison to thresholds or predetermined density values. Upon determination of a stovetop fire condition a fire suppression module triggers, for example, a valve or switch to extinguish the stovetop heat source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07934564&OS=07934564&RS=07934564
owner: Williams-Pyro, Inc.
number: 07934564
owner_city: Fort Worth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080929
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. NIST SB 1341 03 C 0034 between the National Institute of Standards and Technology and Williams Pyro Inc. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Household fires oftentimes result from kitchen stovetop fires such as for example stovetop grease fires. One reason that stovetop fires can be particularly dangerous is that stoves are commonly positioned adjacent to a ready fuel source for example kitchen cabinets. In order to reduce the risk of household fires fire suppression devices have been devised which automatically release a powder to suppress a stovetop fire at least in part by smothering flames. Such a device is effective to put out a stovetop flame however the stove remains on after deployment of the fire suppressing powder and a flame may reignite over time.

While different signal mechanisms can be deployed to indicate release of the flame suppressing matter attendance to the stovetop is not automated or guaranteed. Perhaps a resident has stepped outside the dwelling or has fallen asleep. Any audible or visual signal may go unnoticed. A smoke alarm may not be timely triggered or triggered at all in view of the released fire suppressing matter. It would be desirable to quench the initial stovetop flame and automatically cutoff the heat energy source avoiding a secondary fire over time.

Conventional automatic cutoff valves are typically associated with a period of non use. A conventional cutoff does not actuate upon the detection of a stovetop fire and release of a flame suppressant.

In the description which follows like parts are marked throughout the specification and drawings with the same reference numerals respectively. The drawing figures may not be to scale and certain features may be shown exaggerated in scale or in somewhat schematic form in the interest of clarity and conciseness.

In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in fire suppressor is mounted above stovetop and is configured to release a suppressing powder directly onto stovetop to smother a stovetop fire. In operation fire suppressor is actuated upon contact with a flame from the stovetop fire. For example in the exemplary embodiment illustrated in as a flame contacts fire suppressor the flame lights a fuse not illustrated disposed on suppressor to thereby ignite a black powder substitute charge which in turn releases the fire suppressing powder stored within suppressor . According to some embodiments ignition of a combustable propellant not only releases fire suppressing powder but also creates an audible alarm signal to alert individuals located near stove of the stovetop fire condition. For example a near 140 decibel burst is emitted upon ignition of the black powder substitute propellant comprised in a STOVETOP FIRESTOP fire suppressor Williams Pyro Inc. Fort Worth Tex. USA . In accordance with the present invention sensing this sound burst which can be for example at 140 decibels can actuate fire suppression control device as discussed in further detail below.

Manual reset switch enables a user to manually clear an alarm condition and turn on or off gas or electricity to stove . For example when fire suppression system is in the ON state a user can press switch to turn off the gas or electricity. By allowing a user to manually turn the gas or electricity off suppression system provides a convenient way to interrupt power or gas to the stove when the stove is not being used for extended periods such as for example when the user leaves for vacation. When fire suppression system is in the OFF state the user can press switch to turn on the gas or electricity. According to some embodiments alert changes status e.g. from green to red when a user actuates switch to the OFF position. Likewise alert changes status e.g. from red to green when a user actuates switch to the ON position. In the embodiment illustrated in if a user manually turns the gas or electricity on via switch an audible alert may also be incorporated to alert the user the presence of gas or electricity to stove .

In memory comprises fire suppression module and a database . Fire suppression module may comprise hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. In fire suppression module is illustrated as being stored in memory so as to be accessible and or executable by processor . However it should be understood that fire suppression module may be otherwise stored.

In the embodiment illustrated in database comprises fire detection data and relational data . Fire detection data comprises information associated with signals detected and or otherwise received by sensor s such as by way of example signals corresponding to temperature data e.g. indicating the heat released from a fire on stovetop and audible data e.g. indicating an audible signal level associated with actuation of fire suppression device .

In relational data comprises information used to evaluate fire detection data such as but not limited to known and or predetermined signal values such as temperature values corresponding to heat released from flames on stovetop resulting from a fire rate of temperature rise and or decibel level values associated with the actuation of fire suppression device . Thus relational data comprises information used to analyze and or evaluate fire detection data to determine whether fire suppression module should send a signal to shut off and or otherwise actuate valve switch .

In operation relational data is compared against fire detection data by fire suppression module to determine whether a fire exists on stovetop . If fire detection data exceeds a predetermined threshold or range as compared to relational data for a non fire condition on stovetop fire suppression module transmits and or otherwise generates a signal to turn off the fuel supply e.g. gas or electricity to stove . For example in some embodiments fire suppression module is configured to control actuation of valve switch to prevent gas or electricity flow to stove by monitoring heat rate of rise of heat and sound. Thus heat generated from a fire on stovetop is measured by heat sensor and sound generated by fire suppression device is measured by microphone . Fire suppression module compares fire detection data to relational data to determine whether to generate a signal to actuate valve to prohibit the flow of gas or electricity to stove . Rate of rise may be determined for example by a processor comprised in fire suppression module from temperature data collected at a given interval. According to one exemplary embodiments temperature sensed data is recorded at two minute intervals for rate of temperature rise determination.

According to some embodiments fire suppressor when triggered produces an approximately 140 decibel audible alarm signal This high decibel sound may enable control device to easily distinguish the alarm signal from other sounds in the local environment. In addition to a maximum decibel level or as an alternative in still other embodiments a Fast Fourier Transform FFT may be used to determine a spectral signature from a sensed signal. The output of the FFT may be compared to a spectral signal of a recording of a known alarm signal relational data. In some embodiments using spectral comparisons may reduce or even eliminate false alarms generated by fire suppression control device .

It should be understood that valve switch may be actuated via fire suppression module utilizing any number of and combination of sensors . For example fire suppression module may actuate valve switch upon detection of a fire condition by monitoring only heat conditions only sound conditions or a combination thereof. However in accordance with one embodiment it should be understood that by monitoring both heat and sound false alarms generated by suppression module may be reduced and or substantially eliminated. For example by utilizing a combination of different types of sensors e.g. at least one microphone and at least one heat sensor an exact alarm audible signature is not necessary e.g. distinguishing the approximately 140 decibel audible alarm signal generated by suppressor from other loud noises such as banging of pots and pans dropped items etc. since input from heat sensor in addition to input from microphone is necessary to actuate valve switch . Thus in the event a noise of near 140 decibel is detected by microphone from for example a dropped pan fire suppression module will not transmit a signal to actuate valve switch until fire suppression module determines that fire detection data also falls outside the predetermined value range indicated by relational data for a non fire condition on stovetop .

Sensor data is acquired from at temperature and a sound sensor . The rate of rise of sensed temperature data is calculated . Comparisons are made between the sensed sound data and calculated rate of rise of sensed temperature data to respective relational data . These steps can be performed in parallel or series and are shown in as occurring in parallel. If sensed sound data exceeds sound threshold and if calculated rate of rise of sensed temperature data exceeds threshold then the valve or switch is actuated to turn off the stovetop . If either sensed sound or sensed rate of temperature rise does not exceed its respective threshold then monitoring continues with sensing and acquiring of stovetop data .

In accordance with the present invention fire suppression module may trigger either of an electrically controlled valve or an electrical switch . In the case of a gas stove valve comprises an electrically controlled valve to open or close gas to the stove. The valve may be controlled by an electromagnetic solenoid actuator. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment the valve is in the closed or off state until electric current is applied to the solenoid. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment following an onset pulse of 0.5 seconds pulse width modulation PWM is used to maintain the valve in the open or on state. According to one exemplary embodiment 24 VDC is applied at the onset for 0.5 seconds and at approximately 4.8 VDC thereafter using PWM reducing power consumption by the solenoid valve by up to 95 percent. In the case of an electrical switch for an electrical stove PWM is not necessary.

In yet another embodiment one of valve or the fire suppression control device comprises switch valve state memory. In the event that power is interrupted to the fire suppression control device the state of the switch valve is preserved in memory. When the fire suppression control device comes back on line the switch valve returns to its position at the time of power loss. Switch state memory provides added safety. For example in the event that a kitchen breaker is tripped a stovetop user may not wish the stovetop to be powered up upon closing of the kitchen breaker.

The construction of fire suppression system is believed to be understandable to those skilled in the art based on the foregoing description read in conjunction with the drawings. Conventional materials and components may be used to fabricate fire suppression system described herein which are not otherwise described with respect to the type of material and components to be used for fabrication thereof.

Although exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described in detail those skilled in the art will also recognize that various substitutions and modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the appended claims.

