---

title: Powered driver
abstract: An apparatus and methods are provided to penetrate a bone and associated bone marrow using a powered driver having a gear assembly and a motor. The powered driver may include an indicator operable to show status of a power supply associated with the powered driver. The power supply may include a battery power pack having a diamond shaped cross section. The powered driver may have a handle with a corresponding cross section.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504477&OS=09504477&RS=09504477
owner: Vidacare LLC
number: 09504477
owner_city: Wayne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080204
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 910 147 filed Apr. 4 2007 and entitled Powered Driver . The contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 449 476 filed May 30 2003 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 253 959 filed Oct. 19 2008 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 253 467 filed Oct. 19 2008 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 910 147 filed Apr. 4 2007 are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

Embodiments of present invention were developed using funds provided under United States Air Force contract number FA8650 06 C 6614. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure is related to apparatus for penetrating a bone and associated bone marrow with a powered driver and inserting a intraosseous device into the bone marrow.

Every year millions of patients are treated for life threatening emergencies in the United States. Such emergencies include shock trauma cardiac arrest drug overdoses diabetic ketoacidosis arrhythmias burns and status epilepticus just to name a few. For example according to the American Heart Association more than 1 500 000 patients suffer from heart attacks myocardial infarctions every year with over 500 000 of them dying from its devastating complications.

Obtaining satisfactorily vascular access may be a critical problem in approximately five 5 percent to ten 10 percent of patients treated in either prehospital or hospital settings. In the U.S. approximately six million patients annually may experience problems with traditional intravenous access. An essential element for treating medical emergencies is rapid establishment of an intravenous IV line to administer drugs and fluids directly into the circulatory system. Whether in an ambulance by paramedics or in an emergency room by emergency specialists the goal is the same start an IV in order to administer life saving drugs and fluids. To a large degree the ability to successfully treat such critical emergencies is dependent on skill and luck of an operator in accomplishing vascular access.

While it is relatively easy to start an IV on many patients doctors nurses and paramedics often experience great difficulty establishing IV access in some patients. These patients are probed repeatedly with sharp needles in an attempt to solve this problem and may require an invasive procedure to finally establish an intravenous route. A further complicating factor in achieving IV access occurs in the field e.g. at the scene of an accident or during ambulance transport where it is difficult to see the target and excessive motion make accessing the venous system very difficult.

In the case of patients with chronic disease or the elderly the availability of easily accessible veins may be depleted. Other patients may have no available IV sites due to anatomical scarcity of peripheral veins obesity extreme dehydration or previous IV drug use. For these patients finding a suitable site for administering lifesaving drugs becomes a monumental and frustrating task. While morbidity and mortality statistics are not generally available it is known that many patients with life threatening emergencies have died of ensuing complications because access to the vascular system with life saving IV therapy was delayed or simply not possible. For such patients an alternative approach is required.

Powered drivers associated with intraosseous IO devices typically include a housing with various types of motors and or gear assemblies disposed therein. A rotatable shaft may be disposed within the housing and connected with a gear assembly. Various types of fittings connections connectors and or connector receptacles may be provided at one end of the rotatable shaft extending from the housing to releasably engage an IO device with the powered driver.

Examples of powered drivers are shown in pending patent application Ser. No. 10 449 503 filed May 30 2003 entitled Apparatus and Method to Provide Emergency Access To Bone Marrow now U.S. Pat. No. 7 670 328 Ser. No. 10 449 476 filed May 30 2003 entitled Apparatus and Method to Access Bone Marrow now U.S. Pat. No. 7 699 850 and Ser. No. 11 042 912 filed Jan. 25 2005 entitled Manual Intraosseous Device now U.S. Pat. No. 8 641 715.

In accordance with teachings of the present disclosure powered drivers are provided for use in gaining rapid access to a patient s vascular system. One embodiment may include a powered driver operable to insert an intraosseous device into a patient s bone marrow at a selected target site. The powered driver may include a power supply operable to make at least five hundred 500 insertions of an intraosseous device into bone and associated bone marrow. For some embodiments the associated power supply may be operable to make over one thousand 1000 insertions. For some applications a powered driver incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may have the general configuration of a small pistol.

One embodiment of the present disclosure may include providing emergency vascular access EVA by inserting a penetrator assembly into a bone and associated bone marrow by means of a powered driver detaching the powered driver from the penetrator assembly removing an inner penetrator from an outer penetrator of the penetrator assembly and attaching an adapter suitable to communicate medications or fluids with the bone marrow.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure may include manufacturing a powered driver operable to penetrate bone and associated bone marrow by forming a housing having a drive shaft extending from one end of the housing. A connector may be formed on the one end of the drive shaft to releasably attach a penetrator assembly to the drive shaft. A gear assembly may be disposed within the housing and rotatably engage with the drive shaft. A motor may be disposed within the housing and rotatably engaged to the gear assembly opposite from the drive shaft. A power supply and associated electrical circuitry operable to power the motor may also be disposed within the housing.

Powered drivers incorporating various teachings of the present disclosure may be used to provide intraosseous access to a patient s vascular system in the sternum the proximal humerus the shoulder area the proximal tibia below the knee and the distal tibia above the inside of the ankle .

A motor and gear assembly may be disposed within a housing and may be operable to rotate the drive shaft at approximately twelve hundred 1200 revolutions per minute RPM . The gear assembly may reduce rotation speed of the motor by a ratio of approximately twenty to one 20 1 . A trigger or on off switch may extend from the housing. For some embodiments a five battery power pack may be disposed within the housing. For other embodiments a four battery power pack may be disposed within the housing. Some embodiments may include an over current fuse operational to reduce the chance of overheating of the batteries and or power pack.

For some embodiments a powered drive may include a housing having a trigger operable to activate a motor disposed within the housing. A removable trigger guard may be disposed over the trigger when the powered driver is not in use. A lanyard may be used to securely engage the removable trigger guard with the housing. The length of the lanyard may be selected to accommodate placing the trigger guard over the trigger to prevent accidental activation and removing the trigger guard from covering the trigger to allow activation of the motor.

For some embodiments a powered driver may be provided with a housing having a motor and a gear assembly disposed therein. Sound dampening may be disposed within the housing to reduce noise associated with operation of the motor and gear assembly. A power supply status light may be provide at a proximal end of the housing indicate if the battery power is satisfactory green light or may be failing red light . In one embodiment the light will remain green so long as there is more than 10 of battery power remaining once 90 of the battery power has been drained the light will turn red.

Another aspect of the present disclosure may include forming a sealed housing to prevent blood and or other body fluids from contaminating interior portions of the housing and associated components such as the battery motor and or reduction gear assembly. A trigger mechanism or operating switch assembly may also be sealed with the housing to prevent contamination from blood and or other fluids. Rubber or other elastomeric material may be used to from a flexible fluid seal over the trigger mechanism or operating switch assembly.

Preferred embodiments of the disclosure and its advantages may be best understood by reference to wherein like numbers refer to same and like parts.

Vascular system access may be essential for treatment of many serious diseases chronic conditions and acute emergency situations. Yet many patients experience extreme difficulty obtaining effective treatment because of inability to obtain or maintain intravenous IV access. An intraosseous IO space provides a direct conduit to a patent s vascular system and systemic circulation. Therefore IO access is generally an effective route to administer a wide variety of drugs other medications and fluids equivalent to IV access. Rapid IO access or emergency vascular access EVA offers great promise for almost any serious emergency that requires vascular access to administer life saving drugs other medications and or fluids when traditional IV access is difficult or impossible.

Bone marrow typically includes blood blood forming cells and connective tissue disposed in an intraosseous space or cavity surrounded by compact bone. Long bones such as the tibia typically have an elongated central cavity filled with yellow bone marrow and adipose or connective tissue. Such cavities may also be referred to as a medullary cavity bone marrow cavity and or intraosseous space. 

Compact bone disposed near an anterior or dorsal surface may be referred to as anterior compact bone or anterior bone cortex. Compact bone disposed farther from the dorsal or anterior surface may be referred to as posterior compact bone or posterior bone cortex. 

The upper tibia proximate a patient s knee or the humeral head proximate a patient s shoulder may be used as insertion sites for an IO device to establish access with the patient s vascular system. Sternal access may also be used as an insertion site. Availability of multiple intraosseous insertion sites and associated target areas in adjacent bone marrow have proven to be especially important in applications such as emergency treatment of battlefield casualties or other mass casualty situations. Teachings of the present disclosure may be used to obtain intraosseous access at a wide variety of insertion sites and target areas.

IO access may be used as a bridge for temporary fluid and or drug therapy during emergency conditions until conventional IV sites can be found and used. Conventional IV sites often become available because fluids and or medication provided via IO access may stabilize a patient and expand veins and other portions of a patient s vascular system. IO devices and associated procedures incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may become standard care for administering medications and fluids in situations when IV access is difficult or not possible.

Intraosseous access may be used as a routine procedure with chronic conditions which substantially reduce or eliminate availability of conventional IV sites. Examples of such chronic conditions may include but are not limited to dialysis patients patients in intensive care units and epilepsy patients. Intraosseous devices and associated apparatus incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may be quickly and safely used to provide IO access to a patient s vascular system in difficult cases such as status epilepticus to give medical personnel an opportunity to administer crucial medications and or fluids. Further examples of such acute and chronic conditions are listed near the end of this written description.

Apparatus and methods incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may include using a first IO needle set having a fifteen 15 gage cannula with a length of approximately fifteen 15 millimeters to establish vascular access for patients weighing between approximately three 3 kilograms and thirty nine 39 kilograms. A second IO needle set having a fifteen 15 gage cannula with an approximate length of twenty five 25 millimeters may be used to establish vascular access for patients weighing forty 40 kilograms and greater.

The term driver may be used in this application to include any type of powered driver satisfactory for inserting an intraosseous IO device such as a penetrator assembly a catheter an IO needle or an IO needle set into a selected portion of a patient s vascular system. Various techniques may be satisfactorily used to releasably engage or attach an IO device with a driver incorporating teachings of the present disclosure. A wide variety of connectors and associated connector receptacles fittings and or other types of connections with various dimensions and configurations may be satisfactorily used to releasably engage an IO device with a driver. A battery powered driver incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may be used to insert an intraosseous device into a selected target area in ten seconds or less. The reduced size and weight of drivers incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may accommodate use in emergency medical vehicles and emergency crash carts at medical facilities and or carrying in backpacks of military personnel deployed for extended periods of time in remote locations.

The term intraosseous IO device may be used in this application to include any hollow needle hollow drill bit penetrator assembly bone penetrator catheter cannula trocar inner penetrator outer penetrator IO needle or IO needle set operable to provide access to an intraosseous space or interior portions of a bone.

For some applications an IO needle or IO needle set may include a connector with a trocar or stylet extending from a first one end of the connector. A second end of the connector may be operable to be releasably engaged with a powered driver incorporating teachings of the present disclosure. An IO needle or IO needle set may also include a hub with a hollow cannula or catheter extending from a first end of the hub. A second end of the hub may include an opening sized to allow inserting the trocar through the opening and the attached hollow cannula. The second end of the hub may be operable to be releasably engaged with the first end of the connector. As previously noted the second end of the connector may be releasably engaged with a powered driver. A wide variety of connectors and hubs may be used with an IO device incorporating teaching of the present disclosure. The present disclosure is not limited to connector or hub as shown in .

Various features of the present disclosure may be described with respect to powered drivers and See . Various features of the present disclosure may also be described with respect to intraosseous device such as shown in . However the present disclosure is not limited to use with intraosseous device or powered drivers and

Powered driver as shown in and E may be satisfactorily used to insert an intraosseous device at a desired insertion site adjacent to a bone and associated bone marrow. Powered driver as shown in may include one or more features of the present disclosure. At least one or more features of the present disclosure may also be shown with respect to powered drivers and See .

Powered driver may include housing having the general configuration of a small pistol defined in part by handle . Various components associated with powered driver may be disposed within housing including handle . For example a power source such as battery pack may be disposed within handle . Battery pack may have various configurations and may include multiple batteries disposed within sealed packaging material See . For purposes of describing various features of the present disclosure sealed packaging material is not shown in .

Handle may be generally described as an elongated hollow container sized to receive battery pack or power supply therein. Housing including handle may be formed from relatively strong heavy duty polymeric material. For some applications housing may be formed in two halves which are joined together to form a fluid tight seal with the various components associated with powered driver disposed therein. For such applications power source or power supply may include disposable batteries. In other embodiments handle may include exterior connections configured to allow recharging of power supply .

Motor and gear assembly may be disposed within portions of housing adjacent to handle . For embodiments represented by powered drivers respective motor and gear assembly may be generally aligned with each other. Motor may be rotatably engaged with one end of gear assembly . Drive shaft may be rotatably engaged with and extend from another end of gear assembly opposite from motor .

Distal end or first end of housing may include opening not expressly shown with portions of drive shaft extending therefrom. For some applications end of drive shaft extending from housing may have a generally pentagonal shaped cross section with tapered surfaces disposed thereon. Tapered surfaces may be disposed at an angle of approximately three 3 degrees with respect to a longitudinal axis or rotational axis not expressly shown associated with drive shaft . Relatively small magnet disposed on the extreme end of drive shaft opposite from distal end of housing . Fittings and or connectors with various dimensions and or configurations other than end of drive shaft and or magnet may also be satisfactorily used with a powered driver incorporating teachings of the present disclosure.

Intraosseous devices having corresponding tapered openings or connector receptacles may be releasably engaged with end of drive shaft extending from housing . For example end extending from distal end of housing may be releasably engaged with tapered opening in connector as shown in . Tapered opening and end of drive shaft preferably have non sticking tapers.

For some applications both motor and gear assembly may have generally cylindrical configurations. Exterior portion of motor may correspond with the largest outside diameter or nominal outside diameter associated with motor . Exterior portion of gear assembly may correspond with the largest outside diameter or nominal outside diameter associated with gear assembly . For embodiments of the present disclosure represented by powered drivers exterior portion of motor may have a nominal outside diameter portion larger than any outside diameter portion associated with gear assembly .

Portions of housing may have generally similar cylindrical configurations corresponding with exterior portions of motor and gear assembly . For example segment of housing may have a generally cylindrical hollow configuration with an inside diameter compatible with exterior portion of motor . Housing segment may have a generally cylindrical hollow configuration with an inside diameter compatible with exterior portion of gear assembly . Since portions of motor have an outside diameter that is larger than the outside diameter of any portion of gear assembly housing segment may have a larger outside diameter than the outside diameter of housing segment

Motors and gear assemblies satisfactory for use with a powered driver incorporating teachings of the present disclosure may be obtained from various vendors. Such motor and gear assemblies are typically ordered as sets with one end of each motor securely attached to an adjacent end of an associated gear assembly. A drive shaft having various dimensions and or configurations may extend from the gear assembly opposite from the motor. The gear assemblies may sometimes be referred to as reduction gears or planetary gears . The dimensions and or configurations of an associated housing may be modified to accommodate an associated motor and gear assembly.

For some applications a thrust pad structure may be disposed between proximal end of housing and adjacent portions of motor . The thrust pad structure may also be disposed adjacent to distal end of housing . Thrust pad structures and may limit longitudinal movement of motor gear assembly and drive shaft within associated portions of housing . Thrust pad structures and are also shown in . In some embodiments thrust pad structure may include one or more fixed portions of motor configured to locate motor in relation to housing .

For embodiments represented by power driver as shown in sound damping material may be disposed adjacent to proximal end of housing . One of the features of the present invention may include placing sound damping material at various locations within a housing to reduce noise associated with operating a powered driver while inserting an intraosseous device into a target area.

For embodiments of the present disclosure such as shown in powered driver may include electronic circuit board or smart board . Electrical circuit board may also provide an electronic safety switch operable to turn off or deenergize motor after power driver has been energized for a selected amount of time. For example electronic circuit board may turn off power driver after approximately ten seconds. For other applications electronic circuit board may turn off motor after 20 seconds of operations. The time period for deenergizing motor may be selected to save energy in an associated power source.

Powered drivers incorporating teaching of the present disclosure may typically run only a few seconds during insertion of an intraosseous device into bone and associated bone marrow. Activation of an associated motor for a longer period of time may imply a malfunction or use of the powered driver for other than normal IO insertion. To prevent draining of batteries the timeout or timing circuit may automatically turn off the motor after a set time period such as ten 10 seconds or twenty 20 seconds. The time period may correspond with the length of time required to charge the capacitor shown in the above drawing. The timeout or timing circuit may function as a battery saving device. The timeout or timing circuit may be particularly important when a powered driver is carried in a tool box or a backpack to prevent accident draining of the battery.

Additional embodiments of the present disclosure are shown in . For such embodiments trigger guard may be releasably disposed over portions of trigger assembly extending from housing . Trigger guard as shown in may be formed from relatively strong but flexible material. Trigger guard may have a generally U shaped configuration with ribs formed on opposite sides of trigger guard . When trigger guard is disposed over end or button of trigger assembly ribs will preferably be disposed immediately adjacent to portions of handle . A pair of ribs disposed on opposite sides of trigger guard may be used to easily release trigger guard from covering trigger assembly . By placing respective ribs on opposite sides of trigger guard either the thumb not expressly shown of an operator s left hand or right hand may be used to remove trigger guard .

Another aspect of the present disclosure may include attaching a trigger guard with a housing a lanyard. For example lanyard as shown in may be formed from various types of flexible light weight material. First end of lanyard may be securely engaged with an appropriately sized opening formed in trigger guard . Second end of lanyard may be securely engaged on the end of handle . As a result of using lanyard an operator may quickly release trigger guard from power driver but will avoid losing trigger guard .

As shown in power driver may also include electrical circuit board operable to activate light . Powered drive as shown in A B and may include light operable to indicate the status of power supply disposed within handle . Light may be disposed at proximal end or second end of powered driver . For some applications light may be activated when button of trigger assembly is activated or depressed. A green light may be used to indicate that battery pack has sufficient power to activate motor and gear assembly . A red light may be visible at indicator to indicate that battery power may be failing. A wide variety of indicators including but not limited to light emitting diodes LED s liquid crystal displays LCD s and small more conventional light bulbs may be satisfactorily used with a powered driver according to teachings of the present disclosure. In some embodiments indicators may be covered by a user s hand when in use to avoid visibility e.g. in some military situations .

Additional embodiments of the present disclosure are shown in . For such embodiments a power supply may include five batteries . The embodiment of the present disclosure as represented by powered driver may also include one or more of the electronic circuit boards.

Penetrator assembly as shown in may include connector and associated hub outer penetrator and inner penetrator . Penetrator assembly may include an outer penetrator such as a cannula hollow tube or hollow drill bit and an inner penetrator such as a stylet or trocar. Various types of stylets and or trocars may be disposed within an outer penetrator. For some applications outer penetrator or cannula may be described as a generally elongated tube sized to receive inner penetrator or stylet therein. Portions of inner penetrator may be disposed within longitudinal passageway extending through outer penetrator . The outside diameter of inner penetrator and the inside diameter of longitudinal passageway may be selected such that inner penetrator may be slidably disposed within outer penetrator .

Metallic disc may be disposed within opening for use in releasably attaching connector with magnet disposed on end of drive shaft . End of inner penetrator may be spaced from metallic disc with insulating or electrically nonconductive material disposed therebetween.

Tip of outer penetrator and or tip of inner penetrator may be operable to penetrate bone and associated bone marrow. The configuration of tips and or may be selected to penetrate a bone or other body cavities with minimal trauma. First end or tip of inner penetrator may be trapezoid shaped and may include one or more cutting surfaces. In one embodiment outer penetrator and inner penetrator may be ground together as one unit during an associated manufacturing process. Providing a matching fit allows respective tips and to act as a single drilling unit which facilitates insertion and minimizes damage as portions of penetrator assembly are inserted into a bone and associated bone marrow. Outer penetrator and or inner penetrator may be formed from stainless steel titanium or other materials of suitable strength and durability to penetrate bone.

Hub may be used to stabilize penetrator assembly during insertion of an associated penetrator into a patient s skin soft tissue and adjacent bone at a selected insertion site. First end of hub may be operable for releasable engagement or attachment with associated connector . Second end of hub may have a size and configuration compatible with an associated insertion site for outer penetrator . The combination of hub with outer penetrator may sometimes be referred to as a penetrator set or intraosseous needle.

Connector and attached inner penetrator may be releasably engaged with each other by Luer type fittings threaded connections or other suitable fittings formed on first end of hub . Outer penetrator extends from second end of hub .

For some applications connector may be described as a generally cylindrical tube defined in part by first end and second end . The exterior of connector may include an enlarged tapered portion adjacent to end . A plurality of longitudinal ridges may be formed on the exterior of connector to allow an operator to grasp associated penetrator assembly during attachment with a drive shaft. Longitudinal ridges also allow connector to be grasped for disengagement from hub when outer penetrator has been inserted into a bone and associated bone marrow.

Second end of connector may include opening sized to receive first end of hub therein. Threads may be formed in opening adjacent to second end of connector . Threaded fitting may be used in releasably attaching connector with threaded fitting adjacent to first end of hub .

First end of hub may include a threaded connector or other suitable fittings formed on the exterior thereof. First end may have a generally cylindrical pin type configuration compatible with releasably engaging second end or box end of connector .

For some applications end of hub may have the general configuration of a flange. Angular slot or groove sized to receive one end of protective cover or needle cap may be formed in end . Slot or groove may be used to releasable engage a needle cover not expressly shown with penetrator assembly .

For some applications a penetrator assembly may include only a single hollow penetrator. For other applications a penetrator assembly may include an outer penetrator such as a cannula hollow needle or hollow drill bit and an inner penetrator such as a stylet trocar or other removable device disposed within the outer penetrator. Penetrator is one example of a single hollow penetrator or cannula.

The size of a penetrator may vary depending upon the intended application for the associated penetrator assembly. Penetrators may be relatively small for pediatric patients medium size for adults and large for oversize adults. By way of example a penetrator may range in length from five 5 mm to thirty 30 mm. The diameter of a penetrator may range from eighteen 18 gauge to ten 10 gauge. The length and diameter of the penetrator used in a particular application may depend on the size of a bone to which the apparatus may be applied. Penetrators may be provided in a wide variety of configurations depending upon intended clinical purposes for insertion of the associated penetrator. For example there may be one configuration for administering drugs and or fluids to a patient s bone marrow and an alternative configuration for sampling bone marrow and or blood from a patient. Other configurations may be appropriate for bone and or tissue biopsy.

For some applications connector may be described as having a generally cylindrical configuration defined in part by first end and second end . Exterior portions of connector may include an enlarged tapered portion adjacent to end . A plurality of longitudinal ridges may be formed on the exterior of connector to allow an operator to grasp associated penetrator assembly during attachment with a drive shaft. Longitudinal ridges also allow connector to be grasped for disengagement from hub when outer penetrator has been inserted into a bone and associated bone marrow.

First end of connector of may included opening sized to receive portions drive shaft therein. A plurality of webs may extend radially outward from connector receptacle . Webs cooperate with each other to form a plurality of openings adjacent to first end . Opening and openings cooperate with each other to form portions of a connector receptacle operable to receive respective portions of a connector not expressly shown therein.

For some embodiments a trigger guard may be slidably disposed on portions of a handle adjacent to an associated trigger assembly. For example shows power driver with trigger guard in its first position covering portions of trigger assembly . In trigger guard is shown in its second position which allows access to trigger assembly for operation of power driver . For such embodiments trigger guard may be described as having a generally elongated configuration with a U shaped cross section. The profile of the U shaped cross section of trigger guard may be selected to correspond with adjacent portions of handle and trigger assembly . The length of trigger guard may correspond approximately to the length of adjacent portion of handle .

For embodiments represented by power driver as shown in trigger guard may have a generally U shaped configuration similar to corresponding portions of trigger guard . However the length of trigger guard may be substantially less than the length of trigger guard . For embodiments such as shown in pivot pin may be disposed between portions of trigger guard and adjacent portions of handle . Pivot pin may allow rotational movement of trigger guard from a first position blocking access to trigger assembly as shown in and a second position allowing access to trigger assembly as shown in .

Examples of acute and chronic conditions which may be treated using powered drivers intraosseous devices and procedures incorporating teachings of the present disclosure include but are not limited to the following 

Although the present disclosure and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alternations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the following claims.

