---

title: Dynamically managing electronic calendar events based upon key performance indicators (KPIS) within a business process monitoring (BPM) system
abstract: The present invention can include a solution that dynamically manages electronic calendar events based upon the key performance indicators (KPIs) of a business process monitoring (BPM) system. Such a system can include a BPM system, an electronic calendar software application, and a dynamic calendar event manager. The BPM system can be configured to manage data for many user-defined KPIs. The electronic calendar software application can be configured to manage the calendar data of various calendar events for many users. The dynamic calendar event definition can be configured to define a condition for modifying the calendar data of a user-specified calendar event. The dynamic calendar event definition can consist of a KPI threshold value, a calendar action, and an applicable attendee list. The dynamic calendar event manager can be configured to dynamically and automatically handle the modification of the calendar data in accordance with the dynamic calendar event definition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08341004&OS=08341004&RS=08341004
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08341004
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080624
---
The present invention relates to the field of electronic calendar management and more particularly to dynamically managing electronic calendar events based upon key performance indicators KPIs within a business process monitoring BPM system.

Business process monitoring BPM systems are an effective means for an organization to evaluate a variety of key performance indicators KPIs . These KPIs provide information for making critical business decisions. The values of KPIs change dynamically as daily business activities are conducted. Employees need to be able to respond to these changing business needs in a timely manner.

Many organizations use an electronic calendar software application in an attempt to organize responses in the form of calendar events like meetings to the business situations identified by the BPM system. Conventional systems lack automation for bridging communications between a BPM system and an electronic calendar software application. Calendar events are therefore required to be managed manually without any automation that allows the calendar events to be dynamically modified based on the KPI data.

As such this manual process is fundamentally inefficient because the creation or modification of a calendar event relies upon the recognition of the change in the KPI data by a designated person. For example a sales manager may be out of the office when the BPM system identifies a sudden drop in daily sales. Thus a meeting to address this issue can be delayed hours costing the organization additional revenue.

The present invention can be implemented in accordance with numerous aspects consistent with the materials presented herein. One aspect of the present invention can include a system that dynamically manages electronic calendar events based upon the key performance indicators KPIs of a business process monitoring BPM system. Such a system can include a BPM system an electronic calendar software application and a dynamic calendar event manager. The BPM system can be configured to manage data for many user defined KPIs. The electronic calendar software application can be configured to manage the calendar data of various calendar events for many users. The dynamic calendar event definition can be configured to define a condition for modifying the calendar data of a user specified calendar event. The dynamic calendar event definition can consist of a KPI threshold value a calendar action and an applicable attendee list. The dynamic calendar event manager can be configured to dynamically and automatically handle the modification of the calendar data associated with the user specified calendar event in accordance with the dynamic calendar event definition.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a method for dynamically managing electronic calendar events based upon key performance indicators KPIs of a business process monitoring BPM system. Such a method can begin with the creation of a dynamic calendar event definition for a user specified calendar event. The dynamic calendar event definition can consist of a KPI threshold value a calendar action and an applicable attendee list. KPI data that was collected by a business process monitoring BPM system can be monitored. The satisfaction of the KPI threshold value by the KPI data can be dynamically determined in real time. When the KPI threshold value is satisfied the calendar data of an electronic calendar software application associated with the user specified calendar event can be automatically modified.

Still another aspect of the present invention can include a dynamic calendar event manager for dynamically managing electronic calendar events based upon key performance indicators KPIs of a business process monitoring BPM system. The dynamic calendar event manager can include dynamic calendar event definitions a calendar event monitor and a calendar action processor. The dynamic calendar event definitions can define conditions for modifying the calendar data of an electronic calendar software application for a user specified calendar event. Each dynamic calendar event definition can consist of a KPI threshold value a calendar action and an applicable attendee list. The calendar event monitor can be configured to communicate with the BPM system to determine the satisfaction of a KPI threshold value of a dynamic calendar event definition. The calendar action processor can be configured to send calendar action messages to the electronic calendar software application in response to the satisfaction of the KPI threshold value. A calendar action message can contain commands that can be executed by the electronic calendar software application.

The present invention discloses a solution that dynamically manages electronic calendar events based upon the key performance indicators KPIs of a business process monitoring BPM system. Threshold values corresponding to the various KPIs of the BPM system can be defined in a dynamic calendar event definition. A calendar action and an applicable attendee list can be included in the dynamic calendar event definition associated with the KPI threshold. A dynamic calendar event manager can monitor the KPI data of the BPM system to determine the satisfaction of KPI threshold values. When a KPI threshold value has been met the dynamic calendar event manager can send a calendar action message to the electronic calendar software application. The calendar action message can represent a translation of the calendar action and applicable attendee list of the dynamic calendar event definition which can cause the electronic calendar software application to modify the corresponding calendar data.

The present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD. Other computer readable medium can include a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet an intranet a personal area network PAN or a magnetic storage device. Transmission media can include an electrical connection having one or more wires an optical fiber an optical storage device and a defined segment of the electromagnet spectrum through which digitally encoded content is wirelessly conveyed using a carrier wave.

Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium can even include paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The BPM system can represent a software system that can interface with other computer systems for the purpose of collecting data for a variety of KPIs. In one embodiment the BPM system can be any of a variety of commercially available ones and the other computer systems can be pre existing ones. The BPM system can operate on a central computing device or in a distributed manner among multiple computing devices.

User can utilize a dynamic calendar management interface running on a client device to create the dynamic calendar event definition . The client device can be a variety of computing devices capable of communicating with the other components of system over a network .

The dynamic calendar management interface can be a user interface associated with the dynamic calendar event manager . The dynamic calendar management interface can be configured to allow the user to perform a variety of operations such as create and modify upon a dynamic calendar event definition . In an alternate embodiment the dynamic calendar management interface can be implemented as a plug in component of the electronic calendar interface .

A dynamic calendar event definition can represent one or more conditions of KPI data and corresponding modifications for the calendar data of a user specified calendar event. Table contains example data for a dynamic calendar event definition . Data items contained in a dynamic calendar event definition can include KPI thresholds calendar actions and applicable attendee lists .

The KPI threshold can represent a triggering condition for the calendar action upon the applicable attendee list . The KPI threshold can correspond to a KPI for which the BPM system collects data . Further the KPI threshold can utilize logical operators to associate multiple KPI data elements. For example a KPI threshold can be defined as with two conditions joined by the logical operator AND such as in a range of values e.g. sales 4000 AND sales

Calendar actions can represent how the calendar data is to be modified. As shown in table calendar actions can include an invite action a cancel action and an update action. It is important to note that the calendar action must correspond to actions that the electronic calendar software application can perform. Additionally a calendar action can require additional data not shown to be specified within the dynamic calendar event definition . For example an update action changing a meeting time requires the new meeting time to be defined.

The applicable attendee list can correspond to one or more of the attendees of the calendar event for which the calendar action is being executed upon. For example any attendee of a weekly status meeting whose sales is over 30000 need not attend. Therefore attendees of the meeting can dynamically and automatically receive meeting cancellations as their sales figures exceed 30000.

The dynamic calendar event definition can be stored in a data store accessible by the dynamic calendar event manager . The dynamic calendar event manager can be a software application configured to monitor the KPI data of the BPM system to determine the satisfaction of KPI threshold values . When a KPI threshold is satisfied the dynamic calendar event manager can execute actions for modifying the calendar data according to the calendar action associated with the KPI threshold .

As shown in system the dynamic calendar event manager can be a component of the BPM system . In an alternate embodiment the dynamic calendar event manager can operate from a computing device that is capable of communicating with both the BPM system and the electronic calendar application over a network such as network .

The dynamic calendar event manager can include a KPI data monitor and a calendar action processor . The KPI data monitor can represent the portion of the dynamic calendar event manager configured to monitor the KPI data of the BPM system and can determine the satisfaction of KPI thresholds of the dynamic calendar event definitions .

The KPI data monitor can monitor the KPI data in a variety of ways including but not limited to intercepting alert communications of the BPM system querying the data store containing the KPI data utilizing an information service of the BPM system and the like. It should be noted that the KPI data monitor can be configured to operate using the communication protocols available to the BPM system.

When a KPI threshold is met the KPI data monitor can invoke the calendar action processor . The calendar action processor can represent the portion of the dynamic calendar event manager configured to handle the calendar action associated with the satisfied KPI threshold . The calendar action processor can generate a calendar action message representing the calendar action and the applicable attendee list of the satisfied KPI threshold .

The calendar action message can include commands that can be executed by the electronic calendar application in order to properly modify the calendar data . Additionally the calendar action message can contain instructions for the electronic calendar application that utilize an application programming interface API . For example a calendar action message for an update calendar action can include machine readable instructions that cause the electronic calendar application to change the meeting time for the users on the applicable attendee list .

The dynamic calendar event manager can transmit the calendar action message to the electronic calendar application . The electronic calendar application can represent a commercially available software application configured to manage calendar data stored in an accessible data store . The electronic calendar application can be configured to operate upon a network server and can communicate with client devices and the dynamic calendar event manager over the network .

Users whose calendar data was modified by the electronic calendar application in response to a calendar action message can view the modified calendar data via an electronic calendar interface on a client device . The electronic calendar interface can represent the user interface of the electronic calendar application that displays the calendar data .

It is important to emphasize that once a user creates a dynamic calendar event definition that the modifications to the calendar data occurs as various KPI thresholds are met by the KPI data . Thus changes to the calendar data occur dynamically and without further user intervention.

Network can include any hardware software and firmware necessary to convey data encoded within carrier waves. Data can be contained within analog or digital signals and conveyed though data or voice channels. Network can include local components and data pathways necessary for communications to be exchanged among computing device components and between integrated device components and peripheral devices. Network can also include network equipment such as routers data lines hubs and intermediary servers which together form a data network such as the Internet. Network can also include circuit based communication components and mobile communication components such as telephony switches modems cellular communication towers and the like. Network can include line based and or wireless communication pathways.

As used herein presented data stores and can be a physical or virtual storage space configured to store digital information. Data stores and can be physically implemented within any type of hardware including but not limited to a magnetic disk an optical disk a semiconductor memory a digitally encoded plastic memory a holographic memory or any other recording medium. Data stores and can be a stand alone storage unit as well as a storage unit formed from a plurality of physical devices. Additionally information can be stored within data stores and in a variety of manners. For example information can be stored within a database structure or can be stored within one or more files of a file storage system where each file may or may not be indexed for information searching purposes. Further data stores and or can utilize one or more encryption mechanisms to protect stored information from unauthorized access.

Method can begin with step where a user can create a dynamic calendar event definition. Step can be comprised of steps and . In step the user can define a threshold value for a KPI within the BPM system. A calendar action can be defined by the user for the KPI threshold value in step . In step a list of applicable attendees can be associated with the KPI threshold and calendar action.

The dynamic calendar event definition can be stored in a location accessible by the dynamic calendar event manager in step . In step the dynamic calendar event manager can monitor the KPI data of the BPM system. The dynamic calendar event manager can determine if a KPI threshold has been satisfied in step .

When a KPI threshold has not been met flow can return to step where the dynamic calendar event monitor continues to monitor the KPI data. When a KPI threshold has been met step can execute where the dynamic calendar event manager can generate the appropriate calendar action message for the calendar action associated with the satisfied KPI threshold.

In step the dynamic calendar event manager can convey the calendar action message to the electronic calendar application. The electronic calendar application can execute the calendar action contained in the calendar action message upon the calendar data of the applicable attendee list in step .

The diagrams in illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

