---

title: Online service syndication
abstract: Embodiments described herein are directed to syndicating an online service to at least one syndication partner of a syndicator. In one embodiment, a computer system determines that a syndication relationship has been established between a syndicator and a syndication partner, where the syndication relationship is established to provide syndicated services to syndication partners and clients. The computer system indicates which services provided by the syndicator are available for syndication to the syndication partner and which type of usage information the partner is to provide in order to use the syndicator's services. The computer system receives usage information from the syndication partner specifying which services are to be syndicated and specifying parameters for those services indicating operating parameters specific to the use of the syndicated services. Based on the received usage information, the computer system provides the service to the syndication partner in the manner indicated by the received usage information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311947&OS=08311947&RS=08311947
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08311947
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
Computers have become highly integrated in the workforce in the home in mobile devices and many other places. Computers can process massive amounts of information quickly and efficiently. Software applications designed to run on computer systems allow users to perform a wide variety of functions including business applications schoolwork entertainment and more. Software applications are often designed to perform specific tasks such as word processor applications for drafting documents or email programs for sending receiving and organizing email.

In many cases software applications are designed to interact with other software applications or other computer systems. For example a client computer system might connect to a server in a datacenter to access a service provided by the datacenter. The service could provide simple or very complex functionality and may be able to communicate with other services in the process. Such services are often referred to as software as a service or SAAS.

In some cases service developers may desire to offload the finalized service to another person or business for hosting. Such hosting businesses often have proprietary implementations in place requiring the developer to add specific scripts or other code to enable communication between the hosting company s servers and the developer s service. Moreover in many cases hosting servers can only handle limited numbers of user submitted services.

Embodiments described herein are directed to syndicating an online service to at least one syndication partner of a syndicator. In one embodiment a computer system determines that a syndication relationship has been established between a syndicator and a syndication partner where the syndication relationship is established to provide syndicated services to syndication partners and clients. The computer system indicates which services provided by the syndicator are available for syndication to the syndication partner and which type of usage information the partner is to provide in order to use the syndicator s services. The computer system receives usage information from the syndication partner specifying which services are to be syndicated and specifying parameters for those services indicating operating parameters specific to the use of the syndicated services. Based on the received usage information the computer system provides the service to the syndication partner in the manner indicated by the received usage information.

In another embodiment a syndicator computer system in a computer networking environment includes a system for syndicating an online service to at least one syndication partner. The system includes a processor system memory and a service delivery platform configured to establish a syndication relationship between a syndicator and a plurality of different syndication partners where the syndication relationship is established to provide syndicated services to syndication partners and clients and where each syndication relationship is established using metadata provided by each syndication partner to the syndicator.

The system also includes a mediation platform that allows each of the syndication partners to integrate with the syndicator through a single point of access. The integration includes providing a catalog listing of all the online services provided by the syndicator including built in services for managing services syndicated through the syndication relationship receiving an indication from a syndication partner including metadata that indicates which services are to be syndicated and further indicates parameters for providing the service and providing those online services indicated in the metadata to the syndication partner where the services are provided according to the parameters included in the received metadata.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments described herein are directed to syndicating an online service to at least one syndication partner of a syndicator. In one embodiment a computer system determines that a syndication relationship has been established between a syndicator and a syndication partner where the syndication relationship is established to provide syndicated services to syndication partners and clients. The computer system indicates which services provided by the syndicator are available for syndication to the syndication partner and which type of usage information the partner is to provide in order to use the syndicator s services. The computer system receives usage information from the syndication partner specifying which services are to be syndicated and specifying parameters for those services indicating operating parameters specific to the use of the syndicated services. Based on the received usage information the computer system provides the service to the syndication partner in the manner indicated by the received usage information.

In another embodiment a syndicator computer system in a computer networking environment includes a system for syndicating an online service to at least one syndication partner. The system includes a processor system memory and a service delivery platform configured to establish a syndication relationship between a syndicator and a plurality of different syndication partners where the syndication relationship is established to provide syndicated services to syndication partners and clients and where each syndication relationship is established using metadata provided by each syndication partner to the syndicator.

The system also includes a mediation platform that allows each of the syndication partners to integrate with the syndicator through a single point of access. The integration includes providing a catalog listing of all the online services provided by the syndicator including built in services for managing services syndicated through the syndication relationship receiving an indication from a syndication partner including metadata that indicates which services are to be syndicated and further indicates parameters for providing the service and providing those online services indicated in the metadata to the syndication partner where the services are provided according to the parameters included in the received metadata.

Embodiments of the present invention may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer including computer hardware as discussed in greater detail below. Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions are physical storage media including recordable type storage media. Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation embodiments of the invention can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media physical storage media and transmission media.

Physical storage media includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

A network is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmission media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry or transport desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

However it should be understood that upon reaching various computer system components program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to physical storage media. For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface card and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile physical storage media at a computer system. Thus it should be understood that physical storage media can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs pagers routers switches and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Syndicator computer system may include any type of computing system or systems. For instance syndicator computer system may comprise a single computing system or may be distributed among multiple computing systems. The services and other modules of syndicator computer system may be distributed among a plurality of different computing systems. In a datacenter scenario various computers in the datacenter may be configured to provide the services of or act as a syndicator computer system.

Syndicator computer system includes services usage module with parameters and authentication module . Services may include any type of computer service that provides computing functionality including applets functions methods and or full software applications. Usage module may be configured to receive usage information including parameters from syndication partner . The usage information may include indications of which syndicator provided services are to be used in conjunction with developer provided syndication partner provided service . It should be noted that syndication partner may or may not be the developer of any services uploaded to or provided to syndicator computer system . As mentioned above a syndication partner may upload service to syndicator computer system for hosting. The partner may also indicate in usage information which syndicator provided services are to be provided in conjunction with service . Parameters may indicate various settings or configurations which are to be used when hosting service . Parameters may include received parameters and or other stored parameters from other syndication partners.

Syndication relationship represents the relationship between syndicator computer system hereinafter referred to as syndicator and syndication partner . Syndicator may establish syndication relationships with multiple different syndication partners hereinafter simply partners . Partner may initiate communication with syndicator using communication module . In some cases partner may use authentication module to authenticate to syndicator which responds using authentication module . Once syndication relationship is established communication between syndicator and partner may occur without login or further authentication. Syndicator may indicate to partner which services are available e.g. in available services and may send interface information indicating how a partner may interface with and use the services of syndicator . Upon receiving usage information and or service syndicator may provide a syndicated service A to syndication partner and or any other third party users or syndicatees of syndication partner . This process will be explained in greater detail below with regard to method of .

Method includes an act of determining that a syndication relationship has been established between a syndicator and a syndication partner the syndication relationship being established to provide syndicated services to syndication partners and clients act . For example syndicator may determine that syndication relationship has been established between the syndicator and syndication partner . Syndication relationship may be established to provide syndicated services A to syndication partners and other third party clients. In some cases syndicator and partner authenticate to each other in a mutual authentication to establish the syndication relationship. For example partner may use authentication module to send login credentials or other authentication information to authentication module of syndicator . In other cases relationship may be established through a trusted third party where both the syndicator and the syndication partner are authenticated by the trusted third party.

In some embodiments all or at least a portion of the syndication partners may establish syndication relationships with syndicator through a single syndicator process. Such a process may also define how information is to be communicated between the syndicator and other syndication partners. Moreover this process may define escalation rules and alternative paths of communication between partners and the syndicator. For example if a communication error or other problem occurred syndicator may determine how such problems are to be handled and or how to divert communication to another working path.

In some cases syndicator may after establishing a syndication relationship with syndication partner receive updated information from a syndication partner. This updated information may change the authentication credentials usage information parameters or any other information previously associated with the established syndication relationship between the syndicator and syndicates partner . Each partner s information may be stored in some type of information store on or accessible by syndicator . This information may be updated automatically upon receiving updated usage information from the syndication partner. Thus the syndication relationship may be continually updated upon receiving new information from partner .

Method includes an act of the syndicator indicating which services provided by the syndicator are available for syndication to the syndication partner and which type of usage information the partner is to provide in order to use the syndicator s services act . For example syndicator may indicate in indication which services are available for syndication to syndication partner and may further indicate in interface information which type of usage information the partner is to provide to implement services . In this manner a partner may be able to determine which services are available for syndication to the partner and other users. Moreover the partner may be able to determine from services information which services are best suited to work in combination with the partner s uploaded service s .

In some embodiments syndicator may maintain a catalog of all of the services provided by the syndicator that can be syndicated to a syndication partner. This catalog may be provided to the various syndication partners and may be updated periodically as the services provided by the syndicator change. After such updates all or a portion of the syndication relationships may be configured to synchronize between the syndicator and the syndication partner such that the syndication partner is updated and made aware of any changes to the syndicator s offerings e.g. services .

Method includes an act of receiving usage information from the syndication partner specifying which services are to be syndicated and specifying parameters for those services indicating operating parameters specific to the use of the syndicated services act . For example syndicator may receive usage information from partner specifying which services are to be syndicated and further specifying parameters for those services indicating operating parameters specific to the use of syndicated service s A. In this manner partner has control over which services are provided in addition to the partner s service . Moreover partner has control over various configurations and settings associated with the other services provided by syndicator . As such syndicator can provide the partner s service in conjunction with other specified syndicator provided services as a service bundle. This bundle may be provided to a plurality of different syndication partners and other users.

For example from the perspective of a third party user the third party user or simply user may access a services bundle over an internet connection such as the internet or other network connection. The services bundle may include partner provided service along with any other syndicator provided services specified by the partner. This bundle of services may be provided to the user according to the configurations and settings specified by parameters . The user may be entirely unaware that one or more of the services originated from partner and that one or more of the services in the bundle originated from syndicator . Thus a partner may enter in a syndication relationship with syndicator to provide various services to clients where some or none of the services are provided by the partner and some or none of the services are provided by the syndicator. Any combination of partner provided and syndicator provided services may be used as indicated by partner .

In some cases syndicator may provide a billing service capable of implementing a partner specified customized billing scheme for each syndicated service. For example syndicator may bill partner for each service used by or provided to a client or other partner. Additionally or alternatively the partner may simply pay for the number of partner provided services hosted by syndicator . Each service may have a different billing level or billing method and may be fully customizable by either the syndicator or the syndication partner as established in the syndication relationship.

In addition to billing methods and arrangements for various services the syndicator may also enable the syndication partner to select an appropriate support model for each syndicated service. For instance partner may determine that a specified support model is to be used with the partner provided service s but that a different support model is to be used with the syndicator provided service s . The support model may specify how problems are to be resolved in conjunction with a given service and or how more serious problems are to be escalated to someone or to a department that can solve the problem. In one specific example a partner may be able to specify in usage data the action to take if communication fails a certain number e.g. 5 times. The partner does not have to know how the syndicator will implement that instruction the partner only has to indicate what they want to have happen in regard to any particular service provided.

Syndicator may also enable the syndication partner to select an appropriate service level agreement for each syndicated service. Thus for time critical applications or services such as live video or voice the partner may specify that a certain level of service is to be guaranteed e.g. a quality of service QoS agreement . For other less time critical services a lower service level agreement may be used. Again as with the other options mentioned above service level agreement may be specified on a per service level and even on a particular service may be downgraded or upgraded as the partner or syndicator sees fit.

Continuing with other optional services the syndicator may enable the syndication partner to select a geo affinity preference for compliance with appropriate local regulations for each syndicated service. Additionally the syndicator may enable the syndication partner to select a branding model for each syndicated service such that each syndicated service can be individually labeled. As outlined above partner may desire to upload service and have syndicator provide service in combination with other syndicator provided services to other computer users as a service bundle. In some cases partner may be able to apply a particular brand name sound symbol etc. to the partner provided service s and or the entire services bundle. In cases where the partner s brand name is applied to the entire bundle of services an indication may be provided to the user s that some of the services are syndicated and are not owned by or developed by the partner. Rather that the services were developed by another buy are provided under the partner s brand name due to the syndication relationship.

In some cases a partner s usage information and or parameters may be communicated to syndicator in a manner or format that is not understandable by the syndicator. For example the syndicator may expect that any usage information is sent in extensible markup language XML format and may receive usage information in another format. In such cases as illustrated in environment of mediation platform may provides transformation rules for transforming usage information and or parameters received from the partner into parameters and use information understandable by syndicator . In this manner data fields in use information may be matched the syndicator s corresponding data fields. Mediation platform may be configured to receive and interpret a variety of different information and format types including information stored as metadata.

As further illustrated in syndicator computer system which may be the same as or different than syndicator computer system includes service delivery platform . Service delivery platform may comprise an online service configured to provide services to other users over a network. The service delivery platform and the mediation platform may both be modular and may be configured for operation on the same computer system on different computer systems or on a distributed computer system. Service delivery platform may be configured to provide services provided by any of syndication partners A B C and D as well as services provided by syndication computer system . In some embodiments the mediation platform is configured to interact with partners at a business process level as opposed to the application programming interface API level and interactions between the process level and the API level are taken care of by the mediation platform. The mediation platform may also allow a partner to change the way in which they provide use information. Because the mediation platform is configured to translate information included in the use data to information usable by the syndicator partners A D need only provide information in a manner compatible with interface information and do not need to inform syndicator when they make changes to the manner in which they provide use information.

Method includes based on the received usage information an act of providing the service to the syndication partner in the manner indicated by the received usage information act . For example syndicator may based on received usage information provide syndicated service s A to partner and or any other partners and other users in the manner indicated by usage information . As mentioned above partner provided service may be provided to other partners or users by itself or in conjunction with one or more other syndicator provided services. The services may be provided in accordance with an established syndication relationship between the partner and the syndicator.

In some cases as illustrated in a syndication partner e.g. A may establish such a relationship with syndicator by first establishing a relationship with trusted third party authenticator . In such cases authenticator is trusted by both syndicator and partner A. In other cases a syndication partner e.g. B or C may directly establish such a syndication relationship with syndicator . In yet other cases a syndication partner e.g. D may establish a syndication relationship with another partner C who in turn has an established relationship with the syndicator. Thus one syndication partner C may syndicate a service provided by the syndicator to a different syndication partner D . Syndication to other partners may continue to substantially any level with each partner potentially adding new different services which may be provided by syndicator in conjunction with other syndicator provided services. Along these lines various different authentication means may be implemented at any point in the syndication relationship establishment process between the different syndication partners and between the partners and the syndicator.

Syndicator may provide listings of offerings for subscription by partners such that syndication partners can subscribe to various syndicator offerings by group or individually. In such scenarios a partner may select a group such as a billing service a support model service and a service level agreement service to be used in conjunction with a partner provided service . Many other services and service combinations are possible and the examples above should not be read as limiting the number or type of service combinations that may be provided by a syndicator. In some cases the syndicator may reserve a portion of the syndicator s computer resources for providing the syndication partner s syndicated services. As such the partner may agree to pay more to reserve a portion of resources to ensure that the partner s clients are properly served. Such computer resources may include hard drive space and or accessing time network bandwidth processing time or any other controllable computer resource.

Thus a syndication partner may be able to provide a service to a syndicator that is to be provided to other users and or partners in conjunction with various syndicator provided services. In addition to any uploaded services the partner may specify in use information which syndicator services are to be provided and in which manner. This combination of partner provided and syndicator provided services may be provided to various other users in accordance with the use information sent by the syndication partner.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

