---

title: Engine control system having fuel-based timing
abstract: A control system for an engine having a cylinder is disclosed having an engine valve movable to regulate a fluid flow of the cylinder and an actuator associated with the engine valve. The control system also has a sensor configured to generate a signal indicative of an amount of an air/fuel mixture remaining within the cylinder after completion of a first combustion event and a controller in communication with the actuator and the sensor. The controller may be configured to compare the amount with a desired amount, and to selectively regulate the actuator to adjust a timing of the engine valve associated with a subsequent combustion event based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150603&OS=08150603&RS=08150603
owner: Caterpillar Inc.
number: 08150603
owner_city: Peoria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE FC02 01CH11079 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present disclosure is directed to an engine control system and more particularly to an engine control system having fuel based timing.

Combustion engines are often used for power generation applications. These engines can be gaseous fuel driven and implement lean burn during which air fuel ratios are higher than in conventional engines. For example these gas engines can admit about 75 more air than is theoretically needed for stoichiometric combustion. Lean burn engines increase fuel efficiency because they utilize homogeneous mixing to burn less fuel than a conventional engine and produce the same power output.

Though using lean burn may increase efficiency gaseous fuel powered engines may be limited by variations in combustion pressures between cylinders of the engine. Gaseous fuel powered engines are typically pre mix charge engines where fuel and air are mixed within an intake manifold and then admitted to a combustion chamber of the engine. Variations in combustion pressure result from more air fuel mixture being admitted into some cylinders than into other cylinders. This uneven distribution of the air fuel mixture can result in pockets of the air fuel mixture burning outside of the envelope of normal combustion increasing the tendency for an engine to knock. The combustion pressure variations can result in cylinder pressures that are significantly higher than average peak cylinder pressures normally seen within the engine. And because significantly higher cylinder pressures can cause the engine to operate improperly a margin of error is required to accommodate the pressure variations. As a result the engine may be required to operate at a level far enough below its load limit to compensate for the pressure variation between the cylinders thereby lowering the load rating of the engine. Additionally the pressure variations can cause fluctuation in engine torque and speed which may be undesirable for some electrical power generation applications.

An exemplary natural gas engine system is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 457 B2 the 457 patent issued to Kuzuyama on May 1 2007. The 457 patent discloses an engine having a plurality of cylinders that are associated with a variable valve timing device. The 457 patent also discloses a control apparatus and a sensor that detects information related to the combustion state within the cylinders. Based on information provided by the sensor the control apparatus identifies the one cylinder having the most violent combustion. The control apparatus then controls the variable valve timing device to adjust a valve timing of all of the cylinders based on the identification. The control apparatus also adjusts a fuel injection amount to all of the cylinders based on the identification. The control apparatus thereby suppresses the combustion of all of the cylinders such that the combustion state of the most violent cylinder becomes an appropriate combustion state.

Although the engine system of the 457 patent may limit excessive pressures in any one cylinder by suppressing combustion in all of the cylinders it may fail to limit cycle to cycle pressure variations in a given cylinder. The pressure in a given cylinder may vary significantly from cycle to cycle. This variation over time may result in fluctuations in engine torque and speed that can negatively affect electrical power generation. Further the output of each cylinder of the 457 patent may have to be reduced to avoid possible damage to engine components because of excessive pressures that may result from pressure variation between combustion cycles within only one of the cylinders. Additionally pressure variation between combustion cycles may lead to significant detonation in the engine system of the 457 patent.

The present disclosure is directed to overcoming one or more of the shortcomings set forth above and or other deficiencies in existing technology.

In accordance with one aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a control system for an engine having a cylinder. The control system includes an engine valve movable to regulate a fluid flow of the cylinder and an actuator associated with the engine valve. The control system also includes a sensor configured to generate a signal indicative of an amount of an air fuel mixture remaining within the cylinder after completion of a first combustion event and a controller in communication with the actuator and the sensor. The controller is configured to compare the amount with a desired amount and to selectively regulate the actuator to adjust a timing of the engine valve associated with a subsequent combustion event based on the comparison.

According to another aspect the present disclosure is directed toward a method of operating an engine. The method includes sensing a parameter indicative of an amount of an air fuel mixture remaining within a cylinder of the engine after completion of a first combustion event and comparing the amount with a desired amount. The method also includes selectively adjusting a valve timing of the engine associated with a subsequent combustion event based on the comparison.

Prime mover may include an engine system as illustrated in . Engine system may include an engine a variable valve actuation system an intake system an exhaust system and a control system . Intake system may deliver air and or fuel to engine while exhaust system may direct combustion gases from engine to the atmosphere. Variable valve actuation system may vary a valve timing of engine to affect fluid flow of engine . Control system may control an operation of variable valve actuation system intake system and or exhaust system .

Engine may be a four stroke diesel gasoline or gaseous fuel powered engine. As such engine may include an engine block at least partially defining a plurality of cylinders only one shown in . In the illustrated embodiment of engine is shown to include six cylinders . However it is contemplated that engine may include a greater or lesser number of cylinders and that cylinders may be disposed in an in line configuration a V configuration or in any other suitable configuration.

A piston may be slidably disposed within each cylinder so as to reciprocate between a top dead center TDC position and a bottom dead center BDC position during an intake stroke a compression stroke a combustion or power stroke and an exhaust stroke. Returning to pistons may be operatively connected to a crankshaft via a plurality of connecting rods . Crankshaft may be rotatably disposed within engine block and connecting rods may connect each piston to crankshaft so that a reciprocating motion of each piston results in a rotation of crankshaft . Similarly a rotation of crankshaft may result in a sliding motion of each piston between the TDC and BDC positions. As shown in the lower portion of the graph of piston may move through the intake stroke from the TDC position crank angle of about 0 degrees to the BDC position crank angle of about 180 degrees to draw air and or fuel into the respective cylinder . Piston may then return to the TDC position crank angle of about 360 degrees thereby compressing the air fuel mixture during the compression stroke. The compressed air fuel mixture may ignite causing piston to move back to the BDC position crank angle of about 540 degrees during the power stroke. Piston may then return to the TDC position crank angle of about 720 degrees to push exhaust gas from cylinder during the exhaust stroke.

One or more cylinder heads may be connected to engine block to form a plurality of combustion chambers . As shown in cylinder heads may include a plurality of intake passages and exhaust passages integrally formed therein. One or more intake valves may be associated with each cylinder and movable to selectively block flow between intake passages and combustion chambers . One or more exhaust valves may also be associated with each cylinder and movable to selectively block flow between combustion chambers and exhaust passages . Additional engine components may be disposed in cylinder head such as for example a plurality of sparkplugs that ignite an air fuel mixture in combustion chambers .

Combustion pressures may vary between different cylinders and between different combustion cycles of a single cylinder during engine operation. Combustion pressures may vary between cylinders for example because of an uneven distribution of air fuel mixture delivered to the plurality of cylinders via intake valve . Combustion pressures may vary between combustion cycles of the same cylinder for example because varying amounts of the delivered air fuel mixture may be combusted in a given combustion cycle thereby leaving some air fuel mixture behind within cylinder . This residual air fuel mixture may affect the combustion pressure of a subsequent combustion cycle. For example variation between combustion cycles may occur because of strong or weak combustion events.

A strong combustion event may occur within a given cylinder when substantially all of the air fuel mixture trapped within cylinder is fully combusted resulting in a combustion pressure that may be higher than an average peak cylinder pressure. But because substantially all of the air fuel mixture within that cylinder may be combusted during the strong combustion event the combustion cycle immediately following the strong combustion event may be relatively weak within the same cylinder . That is because there may be less residual air fuel mixture than in a typical combustion cycle the cylinder pressure within that cylinder during the subsequent combustion cycle may have a pressure lower than the average peak cylinder pressure varying significantly from the high combustion pressure of the previous cycle. It is contemplated that there may be combustion events that are stronger than desired but that do not burn so much air fuel mixture that the subsequent cycle will be a weak cycle.

A weak combustion event may have an opposite effect but also cause a significant pressure variation between combustion cycles. Specifically during a weak combustion event there may be significant pockets of the air fuel mixture within cylinder that do not combust resulting in a combustion pressure that may be lower than an average peak cylinder pressure. Because there may be a significant amount of residual air fuel mixture within cylinder from the previous cycle when additional air fuel mixture is normally admitted for the subsequent cycle there may be much more of the air fuel mixture trapped within cylinder than desired. As a result the combustion pressure during the subsequent combustion cycle may be higher than the average peak cylinder pressure resulting in a significant pressure variation between combustion cycles.

Detonation i.e. knock is an abnormal form of combustion that may be caused by cycle to cycle pressure variations. Detonation may cause components of engine to fail such as for example a head gasket. Detonation may occur when excessive pressure within cylinder e.g. during a combustion cycle following a weak combustion event causes the air fuel mixture to autoignite. Autoignition may result in multiple pockets of simultaneous combustion within combustion chamber instead of singular combustion. The multiple pockets of combustion can collide with each other with significant force causing a rapid rise in cylinder pressure and a metallic pinging i.e. knocking . The detonation forces may subject engine components to overloading and continued detonation may reduce a service life of engine .

Engine may include a plurality of valve actuation assemblies that affect movement of intake valves and or exhaust valves to help minimize engine knock. Each cylinder may have an associated valve actuation assembly . Referring back to each valve actuation assembly may include a rocker arm connected to move a pair of intake valves via a bridge . Rocker arm may be mounted to cylinder head at a pivot point and connected to a rotating camshaft by way of a push rod . Camshaft may be operatively driven by crankshaft and may include a plurality of cams that engage and move push rods .

As pistons move through the four stokes of the combustion cycle i.e. intake compression power and exhaust crankshaft may cyclically drive each valve actuation assembly to move intake valves and or exhaust valves . As shown in valve actuation assembly may cause intake valve to open during the intake stroke of piston . Actuation of intake valves may generally follow profile shown in the upper portion of the graph of . Intake valve may open during the intake stroke for example at a crank angle of about 690 to about 0 and may close at a crank angle of about 210 . Intake valve may displace from a closed position to a maximum open position during which the air fuel mixture may be admitted into combustion chamber .

A pressure profile of cylinder may substantially match a desired profile during typical combustion events as shown in the lower portion of the graph of . During a typical combustion event a pressure within cylinder may reach a peak at a crank angle of between about 360 to about 375 i.e. at the end of the compression and beginning of the power strokes . Also during the compression stroke of a typical combustion event a rate of the pressure rise within cylinder i.e. a rise rate of the pressure may substantially match the slope of desired profile i.e. when a strong or weak combustion event does not occur . Desired profile illustrates a desired combustion state free from significant detonation where there is singular combustion of a desired magnitude.

An undesired profile shown in illustrates a combustion state in which multiple pockets of combustion occur and or the pressure rise rate is greater than desired and detonation occurs. The peak cylinder pressure during detonation may be reached earlier than TDC i.e. during the compression stroke which is undesirable for maximum efficiency and have a peak higher than desired. Another undesired profile shown in illustrates a combustion state in which weak combustion occurs. Weak combustion may occur when a pressure rise rate within cylinder is less than a desired pressure rise rate i.e. less than that of profile and or a peak thereof is lower than desired. Another profile shown in illustrates a combustion state in which combustion pressure rise rate and or magnitudes are slightly higher than desired i.e. profile but the combustion may not be so strong as to require an adjustment of engine . Profiles and are illustrative only and may vary based on engine operation such as for example based on valve timing.

Varying a closing of intake valve may change the pressure profile within cylinder i.e. a rise rate and or a magnitude of the pressure . As shown by a family of curves in a closing of intake valve may be selectively varied during the intake and or the compression strokes by any appropriate amount. When intake valve is closed within the family of curves intake valve may be selectively advanced and or retarded. When intake valve is advanced within the family of curves i.e. the closing is adjusted to be further away from profile less air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in a decrease in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . When intake valve is retarded within the family of curves i.e. the closing is adjusted toward profile more air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in an increase in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . Intake valve may also be selectively varied during the intake and or the compression strokes by any appropriate amount within a family of curves shown in . When intake valve is closed within the family of curves the closing may be selectively advanced and or retarded. When intake valve is retarded within the family of curves i.e. the closing moves further away from profile less air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in a decrease in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . When intake valve is advanced within the family of curves i.e. the closing moves toward profile more air fuel mixture may be trapped within cylinder resulting in an increase in pressure rise rate and or pressure magnitude within cylinder . Intake valve may be varied by an amount that substantially correlates to a comparison of an actual or anticipated pressure profile with the desired profile . Intake valve may be varied by a greater or lesser amount as required to regulate the fluid flow to cylinder and thereby bring the combustion profile within cylinder toward the desired profile .

For example weak combustion e.g. profile may be detected within cylinder . During a cycle following weak combustion the closing of intake valve may be advanced within the family of curves or retarded within the family of curves to decrease the magnitude and pressure rise rate within cylinder toward desired profile . The closing of intake valve may thereby be moved away from a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied i.e. away from unadjusted profile when the pressure within cylinder is higher than a desired pressure. In contrast during a combustion cycle following strong combustion e.g. profile the closing of intake valve may be retarded within the family of curves or advanced within the family of curves to increase the magnitude and pressure rise rate within cylinder toward desired profile . The closing of intake valve may thereby be moved toward a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied i.e. toward unadjusted profile when the pressure within cylinder is lower than a desired pressure.

It is also contemplated that when profile is detected within cylinder i.e. the magnitude and or pressure rise rate are slightly higher than desired a closing of intake valves may not require adjustment. An adjustment to engine may not be required when enough air fuel mixture remains within cylinder such that a weak combustion cycle does not follow a combustion cycle having profile .

The timing of intake valve may be adjusted based on detonation detection a strong combustion detection and or a weak combustion detection i.e. based on a measured rise rate a number of combustion pressure peaks and or an angular location of the peak . As shown in profile of detonation caused by autoignition may cause a slope of the pressure rise rate in cylinder to increase sharply and the peak cylinder pressure may be reached before TDC of the compression stroke. Similarly detonation caused by multiple combustion pockets may be observed as a plurality of sharp rises and or drops in the pressure rise rate. In profile the pressure rise rate may sharply increase and or decrease in an irregular pattern. The closing of intake valve may be adjusted to reduce the likelihood and or magnitude of detonation and to create a balance between strong and weak combustion events.

It is contemplated that an opening of exhaust valve may also or alternatively be advanced or retarded by variable valve actuation device . As illustrated in an opening of exhaust valve may be selectively advanced or additionally opened during portions of the compression and or power strokes. Because more air fuel mixture may escape from cylinder during the compression and or power strokes when the opening of exhaust valve is advanced the amount of trapped mass within cylinder may decrease thereby decreasing a combustion pressure a rise rate and or shifting the angular location of peaks within cylinder . The opening of exhaust valve may also be selectively retarded during portions of the compression and or power strokes. Because less air fuel mixture may escape from cylinder when the opening of exhaust valve is retarded the amount of trapped mass within cylinder may increase thereby increasing a combustion pressure a rise rate and or shifting the angular location of peaks within cylinder .

Variable valve actuation system may include a plurality of variable valve actuation devices configured to adjust timings of intake valves and or exhaust valves to reduce effects of detonation strong combustion events and or weak combustion events. As shown in variable valve actuation device may be attached to and or enclosed by a valve housing of engine . Each cylinder may have an associated variable valve actuation device . Variable valve actuation device may selectively adjust an opening timing closing timing and or lift magnitude of intake valves and or exhaust valves . Variable valve actuation device may be any suitable device for varying a valve timing such as for example a hydraulic pneumatic or mechanical device.

In one example variable valve actuation device may be operatively connected to rocker arm intake valve and or exhaust valve to selectively disconnect a movement of intake and or exhaust valves from a movement of rocker arm . For example variable valve actuation device may be selectively operated to supply hydraulic fluid for example at a low or a high pressure in a manner to resist closing of intake valve . That is after valve actuation assembly is no longer holding intake valve and or exhaust valve open the hydraulic fluid in variable valve actuation device may hold intake valve and or exhaust valve open for a desired period. Similarly the hydraulic fluid may be used to advance a closing of intake valve and or exhaust valve so that intake valve and or exhaust valve closes earlier than the timing affected by valve actuation assembly . Alternatively intake and or exhaust valves may be moved solely by variable valve actuation device without the use of cams and or rocker arms if desired.

Variable valve actuation device may selectively advance or retard a closing of intake and or exhaust valves during the different strokes of engine . Intake valve may be closed early for example at a crank angle of between about 180 and about 210 . Control system may also control variable valve actuation device to retard a closing of intake valve . Intake valve may be closed for example at a crank angle of between about 210 and about 300 . Exhaust valve may be varied to open at a crank angle of between about 510 and about 570 and may be varied to close at a crank angle of between about 700 and about 60 . Exhaust valve may also be opened at a crank angle of about 330 and closed at a crank angle of about 390 . Control system may control each variable valve actuation device to vary the valve timing of each cylinder independently of the valve timing of the other cylinders . Control system may thereby independently control a throttling of each cylinder solely by varying a timing of intake valves and or exhaust valves .

Referring back to intake system may direct air and or fuel into combustion chambers and may include a single fuel injector a compressor and an intake manifold . Compressor may compress and deliver an air fuel mixture from fuel injector to intake manifold .

Compressor may draw ambient air into intake system via a conduit compress the air and deliver the compressed air to intake manifold via a conduit . This delivery of compressed air may help to overcome a natural limitation of combustion engines by eliminating an area of low pressure within cylinders created by a downward stroke of pistons . Therefore compressor may increase the volumetric efficiency within cylinders allowing more air fuel mixture to be burned resulting in a larger power output from engine . It is contemplated that a cooler for further increasing the density of the air fuel mixture may be associated with compressor if desired.

Fuel injector may inject fuel at a low pressure into conduit upstream of compressor to form an air fuel mixture. Fuel injector may be selectively controlled by control system to inject an amount of fuel into intake system to substantially achieve a desired air to fuel ratio of the air fuel mixture. Variable valve actuation device may vary a timing of intake valves and or exhaust valves to control an amount of air fuel mixture that is delivered to cylinders .

Exhaust system may direct exhaust gases from engine to the atmosphere. Exhaust system may include a turbine connected to exhaust passages of cylinder head via a conduit . Exhaust gas flowing through turbine may cause turbine to rotate. Turbine may then transfer this mechanical energy to drive compressor where compressor and turbine form a turbocharger . In one embodiment turbine may include a variable geometry arrangement such as for example variable position vanes or a movable nozzle ring. Variable geometry arrangement may be adjusted to affect the pressure of air fuel mixture delivered by compressor to intake manifold . Turbine may be connected to an exhaust outlet via a conduit . It is also contemplated that turbocharger may be replaced by any other suitable forced induction system known in the art such as for example a supercharger if desired.

Control system may include a controller configured to control the function of the various components of engine system in response to input from one or more sensors . Sensors may be configured to monitor an engine parameter indicative of an amount of air fuel mixture within cylinders i.e. robustness pressure and or temperature of a combustion event . Each sensor may be disposed within an associated cylinder i.e. in fluid contact with a respective one of combustion chambers and may be electrically connected to controller . Sensor may be any suitable sensing device for sensing an amount of air fuel mixture such as for example a piezoelectric crystal sensor or a piezoresistive pressure sensor. In one embodiment sensors may measure the amount of air fuel mixture within cylinders during for example the compression stroke and or the power stroke and may generate a corresponding signal. Sensors may transfer signals that are indicative of the air fuel mixture amount within cylinders to controller . In another embodiment sensors may measure a peak cylinder pressure within cylinder during for example the compression stroke and or the power stroke and transfer a corresponding signal to controller .

Based on the signals controller may determine an air fuel mixture profile for each cylinder . The air fuel mixture profile may be a measurement of how the amount of air fuel mixture within cylinder changes during a combustion cycle and from cycle to cycle. The air fuel mixture profile may be a continuous indication of an amount of air fuel mixture within each cylinder and may be used to predict for example whether strong weak or normal combustion will occur in a subsequent combustion event. Controller may monitor the signals over time to determine a pressure rise rate within cylinder a number of pressure peaks during a single cycle a magnitude of the peaks and or an angular location of the peaks. Controller may then relate this information to the amount of the air fuel mixture in cylinder at any given time.

Controller may then compare the amount of air fuel mixture to a desired amount. In one example the amount may be an amount that is predetermined such that normal combustion may be maintained within cylinder . The amount of one cylinder may be compared with the amount of other cylinders of engine . In another example the desired amount may be a fixed base amount that may correspond to a given engine rating. In one embodiment the desired amount may be stored within a map of controller . Based on a comparison of the monitored amount with the desired amount controller may make adjustments to the timings of valves . Controller may also compare the sensed peak cylinder pressure within cylinder to a desired peak cylinder pressure that may be a fixed base amount that may correspond to a given engine rating or that may be based on a load of engine as measured by sensors . The desired peak cylinder pressure may be stored within a map of controller . Based on a comparison of the sensed peak cylinder pressure with the desired peak cylinder pressure controller may make an associated timing adjustment to valves . Controller may equate the sensed peak cylinder pressure to the amount of air fuel mixture remaining within cylinder based on signals received from sensors .

For example controller may compare the amount of the air fuel mixture of one cylinder to amounts corresponding to pressure profile . If the monitored amount will result in a pressure rise rate peak and or angular location that substantially matches that of profile then controller may determine that cylinder has or will have a desired amount for the subsequent combustion cycle. If the amount corresponds to a pressure rise rate peak and or angular location that does not substantially match that of profile then controller may determine that cylinder has or will have an amount that could correspond to weak combustion strong combustion and or detonation.

Based on the combustion strength determination i.e. the determination of the amount of the air fuel mixture remaining in cylinder controller may make an appropriate adjustment to engine . Specifically controller may control variable valve actuation device to selectively advance and or retard intake and or exhaust valves of cylinders . For example controller may retard intake valves within the family of curves or advance intake valves within the family of curves when a residual amount of air fuel mixture remaining in cylinder from a previous combustion cycle is less than a desired residual amount corresponding to typical combustion. Controller may advance intake valves within the family of curves or retard intake valves within the family of curves when a residual amount of air fuel mixture remaining in cylinder from a previous combustion cycle is greater than a desired residual amount corresponding to typical combustion. Controller may selectively advance and or retard intake valves during for example an intake stroke. Controller may selectively advance and or retard intake valves based on for example sensor input measured during a stroke of a subsequent engine cycle or sensor input measured during the same stroke as the advancing and or retarding.

It is also contemplated that controller may selectively advance and or retard exhaust valves based on combustion strength determination i.e. the determination of the amount of the air fuel mixture remaining in cylinder . For example controller may advance an opening of exhaust valves when a residual amount of air fuel mixture remaining in cylinder from a previous combustion cycle is greater than a desired residual amount corresponding to typical combustion. Controller may retard an opening of exhaust valves when a residual amount of air fuel mixture remaining in cylinder from a previous combustion cycle is less than a desired residual amount corresponding to typical combustion.

Controller may be any type of programmable logic controller known in the art for automating machine processes such as a switch a process logic controller or a digital circuit. Controller may serve to control the various components of engine system . Controller may be electrically connected to the plurality of variable valve actuation devices via a plurality of electrical lines . Controller may also be electrically connected to the plurality of sensors via a plurality of electrical lines . Controller may be electrically connected to variable geometry arrangement via an electrical line . It is also contemplated that controller may be electrically connected to additional components and sensors of engine system such as for example an actuator of fuel injector if desired.

Controller may include input arrangements that allow it to monitor signals from the various components of engine system such as sensors . Controller may rely upon digital or analog processing of input received from components of engine system such as for example sensors and an operator interface. Controller may utilize the input to create output for controlling engine system . Controller may include output arrangements that allow it to send output commands to the various components of engine system such as variable valve actuation devices variable geometry arrangement fuel injector and or an operator interface.

Controller may have stored in memory one or more engine maps and or algorithms. Controller may include one or more maps stored within an internal memory and may reference these maps to determine a required change in engine operation a modification of an engine parameter required to affect the required change in engine operation and or a capacity of engine for the modification. Each of these maps may include a collection of data in the form of tables graphs and or equations.

Controller may have stored in memory algorithms associated with determining required changes in engine operation based on engine parameters such as for example an amount of residual air fuel mixture from cycle to cycle. Based on input received from sensors the algorithm may determine an average air fuel mixture amount per cylinder per combustion cycle. The algorithm may then determine the statistical deviation of the air fuel mixture amount of each cylinder from the average air fuel mixture amount. Using the statistical deviation the algorithm may identify which cylinder air fuel mixture amounts are required to be increased or decreased to reduce the variation of air fuel mixture amounts. The algorithm may perform a similar statistical analysis of air fuel mixture amounts between combustion cycles i.e. as a function of time to identify which cylinders have air fuel mixture amounts that should be increased or decreased in subsequent combustion cycles.

The disclosed method for varying combustion pressure of an engine cylinder may be used in any machine having a combustion engine. For example the method may be used in highly loaded pre mix charge engines such as gaseous fuel driven engines utilized in electrical power generation applications.

During normal combustion events piston may move through the four strokes of the combustion cycle. The movement of piston drives the actuation of intake valve and exhaust valve via valve actuation assembly . Profile shown in the lower portion of may occur during normal combustion within cylinder .

A weak combustion event may occur within cylinder . In the weak combustion event less air fuel mixture than desired may be combusted in cylinder . Weak combustion pressure profile shown in the lower portion of may result. Controller compares the measured pressure profile within cylinder to the desired combustion profile to determine a difference between an amount of residual air fuel mixture that may remain within cylinder during the subsequent combustion cycle and a desired amount. More residual air fuel mixture may remain within cylinder than desired during the combustion cycle following the weak combustion event.

During the cycle following the weak combustion event the closing of intake valve may be advanced within the family of curves or retarded within the family of curves to decrease the magnitude and pressure rise rate within cylinder i.e. adjusted away from a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied . Controller may thereby decrease the amount of air fuel mixture within cylinder . The amount of retarding may be based on the amount of residual air fuel mixture that was determined by controller . Controller may thereby substantially reduce strong combustion and or detonation i.e. profiles during the subsequent cycle and substantially maintain combustion profile within cylinder . Engine detonation may thereby be substantially reduced. Sensors continue to measure parameters indicative of the amount of air fuel mixture within cylinder and provide corresponding input to controller .

A strong combustion event may occur within cylinders . In the strong combustion event more air fuel mixture than desired may be combusted in cylinder . Strong combustion pressure profile shown in the lower portion of may result. Controller compares the measured pressure profile within cylinder to the desired combustion profile to determine a difference between an amount of residual air fuel mixture that may remain within cylinder during the subsequent combustion cycle and a desired amount. Less residual air fuel mixture may remain within cylinder than desired during the combustion cycle following the strong combustion event.

During the cycle following the strong combustion event the closing of intake valve may be retarded within the family of curves or advanced within the family of curves to increase the magnitude and pressure rise rate within cylinder i.e. adjusted toward a profile of intake valve having a timing that has not been varied . The amount of advancing may be based on the amount of residual air fuel mixture that was determined by controller . Controller may thereby substantially reduce weak combustion i.e. profile during the subsequent cycle and substantially maintain combustion profile within cylinder . Sensors continue to measure parameters indicative of the amount air fuel mixture within cylinder and provide corresponding input to controller .

When a combustion event that is slightly greater than a desired combustion event occurs an adjustment of the timing of intake valves may not be required. For example when combustion profile is detected controller may determine that the amount of air fuel mixture remaining during the subsequent combustion cycle will not be low enough to cause an undesired pressure variation during the subsequent combustion cycle i.e. weak combustion . Therefore controller may make no adjustment when profile is detected. However if profile exceeds a threshold such as for example an engine map threshold then an adjustment of intake valves may be made that is similar to the adjustment described above for a cycle following strong combustion.

By adjusting the valve timing of each cylinder based on air fuel mixture amounts measured during previous combustion cycles engine system may reduce pressure variation within cylinder between combustion cycles thereby balancing the load of engine between combustion cycles. The combustion profiles within cylinder may be maintained at a desired profile providing a substantially balanced and constant output from engine that may be beneficial for some power generation applications. Also engine may be operated closer to its load limit because less margin of error may be required to protect engine components from significantly higher cylinder pressures caused by air fuel mixture variations between combustion cycles. Additionally by reducing air fuel mixture variation between combustion cycles detonation may be reduced in engine .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the disclosed method and apparatus. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed method and apparatus. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope being indicated by the following claims and their equivalents.

