---

title: Commerical mobile alert system interface
abstract: A system and method for facilitating the distribution of emergency alert messages to electronic devices via a communications network, such as a commercial mobile wireless network. The system includes a commercial mobile service provider (CMSP) gateway that is in communication with an alert gateway and the communications network. The CMSP gateway has a commercial mobile alert system (CMAS) interface, such as an application programming interface (API), that is configured to receive an emergency alert message from the alert gateway. The emergency alert message includes elements that have been mapped from a corresponding emergency alert message that was issued by an alert initiator. The CMAS interface is further configured to process the emergency alert message into a format suitable for distribution to electronic devices that are in communication with the communications network. The emergency alert message is then distributed to the appropriate electronic devices via the communications network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554169&OS=08554169&RS=08554169
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08554169
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081120
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 079 982 filed Jul. 11 2008 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The Emergency Alert System EAS enables federal state and or local governments to provide timely messages and alerts to the public regarding various types of emergencies. For example the public may receive messages pertaining to weather conditions disasters AMBER alerts America s Missing Broadcast Emergency Response and the like. EAS supersedes the Emergency Broadcast System EBS and is jointly administered by the Federal Communications Commission FCC the Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA and the National Weather Service NWS .

EAS alert messages may be issued nationally i.e. across the entire United States or within a specific geographic region within the United States. For example an EAS alert message may be issued for a specific area affected by a natural disaster such as a hurricane or a flood. The area covered by the alert may span a portion of one or more states and may cover tens or even hundreds of square miles depending on the type and severity of the emergency.

EAS alert messages are generally communicated to an affected area via radio and television broadcasts. However other types of communication mediums e.g. cellular networks local wireless networks the Internet cable networks etc. have become more prevalent over the years. In addition such mediums generally offer advanced capabilities and features such as targeted advertising and or messaging. Such features help to ensure that a particular message or communication is delivered to an appropriate audience.

The disclosed embodiments facilitate the distribution of alert messages via communication networks such as cellular networks local wireless networks the Internet cable networks and the like. In particular one or more of the disclosed embodiments may include a commercial mobile alert system CMAS interface that enables communications between an alert gateway and a commercial mobile service provider CMSP gateway connected to the communications network.

In one embodiment the CMAS interface may be an application programming interface API that may be executed by the alert gateway the CMSP gateway or both. The CMAS interface may enable the alert gateway to process alert messages from one or more alert initiators into a format that can be accommodated by the CMSP gateway. The CMAS interface may also enable the CMSP gateway to process the reformatted messages from the alert gateway into a format that is suitable for distribution to appropriate electronic devices via a commercial wireless network for example.

In another embodiment the CMAS interface may enable the alert gateway and the CMSP gateway to exchange various types of messages with one another such as acknowledgment heartbeat and or error condition messages.

For purposes of illustration various embodiments are described herein in connection with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM . The references to GSM are not exclusive however as it should be appreciated that one or more embodiments may be implemented in connection with any type of wired or wireless access system such as an intranet the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP network and the like.

GSM is one of the most widely used wireless access systems in today s fast growing communication systems. GSM provides circuit switched data services to subscribers such as mobile telephone or computer users. General Packet Radio Service GPRS which is an extension to GSM technology introduces packet switching to GSM networks. GPRS uses a packet based wireless communication technology to transfer high and low speed data and signaling in an efficient manner. GPRS optimizes the use of network and radio resources thus enabling the cost effective and efficient use of GSM network resources for packet mode applications.

The disclosed embodiments generally facilitate the distribution of alert messages such as Emergency Alert System EAS messages or Commercial Mobile Alert System CMAS messages via communication networks such as a GSM wireless network. In particular the disclosed embodiments may include a CMAS interface that enables communications between an alert gateway and a commercial mobile service provider CMSP gateway. The alert gateway and the CMSP gateway may each be connected to the GSM network. The CMAS interface may be an application programming interface API that may be executed by the alert gateway and or the CMSP gateway. The API may be implemented using any suitable messaging protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Transmission Control Protocol TCP . The API may also be implemented using any suitable mark up language such as eXtended Markup Language XML or HyperText Markup Language HTML .

The CMAS interface may enable the alert gateway to process alerts messages from one or more alert initiators into a format that can be accommodated by the CMSP gateway. The CMAS interface may also enable the CMSP gateway to process the reformatted messages from the alert gateway into a format that is suitable for distribution to appropriate electronic devices via a wireless network for example.

The system may be configured to distribute alert messages to various types of electronic devices such as the communications devices the PCs and or the televisions . To facilitate the distribution of such messages the wireless network may be in communication with a CMSP gateway . The CMSP gateway may be in communication with an alert gateway which may be in communication with an alert aggregator . The alert aggregator may be in communication with an alert initiator . The CMSP gateway may be part of a private entity such as a commercial wireless carrier. The alert gateway and the alert aggregator may be part of a public entity such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA . Similarly the alert initiator may be part of a public entity such as the National Weather Service NWS . However it will be appreciated that the CMSP gateway the alert gateway the alert aggregator and the alert initiator may each be part of a public or private entity.

The CMSP gateway may generally be responsible for providing the interconnection between the alert gateway and the CMSP infrastructure to be used for the broadcast of the CMAS alert message. The alert gateway may generally be responsible for providing the connection point between the alert aggregator functions for federal state local and or tribal alert initiators and the various commercial service providers.

In an embodiment an alert message e.g. a flash flood warning may be initiated by the alert initiator and sent to the alert aggregator . The alert aggregator may evaluate the alert message to determine if and how the alert should be broadcast to the public. If the alert aggregator determines that the alert message should be broadcast to the public the alert aggregator may pass the alert message to the alert gateway . The alert gateway may receive and process the alert message for transmission to the CMSP gateway . The CMSP gateway may then receive and process the alert message for distribution to the appropriate electronic devices via the wireless network . After receiving the alert message the electronic devices e.g. the communications devices may then display the alert message to the corresponding users.

The alert initiator may initiate the alert message using a common alerting protocol CAP though it will be appreciated that the alert message may be initiated in any suitable data format. However the wireless network may not be able to process CAP alerts or whichever data format is being used by the alert initiator . Thus as noted above a CMAS interface may be provided between the alert gateway and the CMSP gateway to enable the wireless network to receive and process various types of alert messages that may be initiated by the alert initiator . For example as shown in the alert gateway and or the CMSP gateway may include and or execute a CMAS interface which may be an application programming interface API that is implemented by way of an XML program or schema. An exemplary XML schema for the CMAS interface is shown in Appendix I.

The CMAS interface may enable the alert gateway to process the alert message from the alert initiator into another data format such as a commercial mobile alert C interface CMAC message. The alert gateway may then send the CMAC message to the CMSP gateway . The CMSP gateway may then process the CMAC message for distribution to the appropriate electronic devices. For example the CMSP gateway may process the CMAC message into another format e.g. a commercial mobile alert E interface CMAE message that may be distributed via the wireless network and the BSS to one or more of the communications devices . The reformatted message may also be transmitted to the PCs and the televisions via the Internet and the cable network respectively.

Using the CMAS interface the alert gateway may construct a CMAC message from the CAP alert as follows 

After receiving the CMAC message from the alert gateway the CMSP gateway may process the CMAC message e.g. format the CMAC message into a CMAE message so that it may be distributed via the wireless network and received by the appropriate electronic devices. Thus continuing with the foregoing example the CMSP gateway may send the CMAE message to the wireless network for broadcast to the communications devices as Severe Weather Warning until 4 15 pm MST National Weather Service Flagstaff. 

The CAP alert and the CMAC message may each have a number of elements. For example as shown in the CAP alert may include one or more mandatory elements and one or more optional elements . The CMAC message may have one or more CMAC elements . Thus the CMAS interface may map the CAP alert s mandatory elements and optional elements into the CMAC elements . It will be appreciated that in other embodiments some or all of the mandatory elements shown in may be designated as optional elements and some or all of the optional CAP elements may be designated as mandatory elements .

Each CMAC message may also define a number of segments. For example each CMAC message may include a CMAC alert attributes segment a CMAC alert information segment a CMAC alert area segment and a CMAC alert resource segment . Each of the CMAC elements may be associated with at least one of the CMAC alert segments . depicts an exemplary object model of the CMAC alert segments and CMAC elements . In a preferred embodiment the CMAC message may include one CMAC alert attributes segment one or more CMAC alert information segments and one or more CMAC alert area segments . In the preferred embodiment the CMAC resource segment may be optional and may be reserved for future use in streaming audio streaming video and or multimedia commercial mobile alerts CMAs .

While multiple CMAC alert information segments may be included within the CAP alert from the alert initiator each CMAC alert information segment may be a separate commercial mobile alert message CMAM from the alert gateway . Thus each CMAC alert information segment may be sent as a separate CMAM with a unique message identifier. In addition a separate CMAC alert information segment with associated CMAC elements may be created for the CMA messages to be given to commercial wireless providers for broadcast via the CMSP selected technologies consistent with the regulatory requirements and procedures.

The CMAC elements associated with the CMAC alert segments may be defined in any suitable manner. Appendix II lists an exemplary scheme for mapping CAP elements to CMAC elements and CMAC elements to CMAE elements. Tables I IV below list exemplary definitions of the CMAC alert elements within each of the CMAC alert segments .

The CMAC cmas geocode element defined above in Table III associated with the CMAC alert area segment may include five characters. The first two characters may identify the state or region associated with the particular CMAC message. The last three characters may identify the specific counties regions or equivalent entities.

For example the CMAC cmas geocode indication for a specific county may be defined in accordance with the Federal Information Processing Standard 6 4 FIPS 6 4 entitled Counties and Equivalent Entities of the United States Its Possessions and Associated Areas dated Aug. 31 1990 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein. The CMAC cmas geocode indication for an entire state may be the two digit FIPS State Numeric Code as defined in Federal Information Processing Standard 5 2 FIPS 5 2 entitled Codes for the Identification of the States the District of Columbia and the Outlying Areas of the United States and Associated Areas dated May 28 1987 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein followed by three zeroes 000 . The CMAC cmas geocode indication for the entire United States including all states the District of Columbia possessions and associated areas may be US000. It will be appreciated that alerts may be targeted for specific regions of the United States e.g. the Gulf States . Thus the CMAC cmas geocode may include values for regional areas such as FEMA regions or NWS regions. The FEMA regions may be assigned values in the format of US0xx and the NWS regions may be assigned values in the format of US1xx. Table V below lists exemplary definitions of assigned CMAC cmas geocode values.

The CMAS interface may provide other features and or functionality for facilitating communications between the alert gateway and the CMSP gateway . For example the CMAS interface may enable the alert gateway to periodically issue a keep alive e.g. a heartbeat message to the CMSP gateway . The keep alive message may be used by the alert gateway to check on the status of the CMSP gateway . In an embodiment the keep alive message may be a CMAC message that only includes the CMAC alert attributes segment . The keep alive message may be indicated by a CMAC status element value of System and a CMAC message type element value of Heartbeat. The alert gateway may indicate the time the message was initiated in the CMAC sent date time element. The alert gateway may assign a unique message identifier to the keep alive message specified in the CMAC message identifier element to send heartbeat messages to the CMSP gateway . Table VI below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for an alert gateway initiated keep alive message.

The following is an exemplary format for a keep alive message initiated from the alert gateway and sent to the CMSP gateway 

Upon receipt of the alert gateway initiated keep alive message the CMSP gateway may send an acknowledgement of successful receipt or indicate an error condition. In an embodiment the keep alive acknowledgement may be a CMAC message that only includes the CMAC alert attributes segment . A successful keep alive acknowledgement may be indicated by a CMAC status element value of System a CMAC message type element value of Ack and a CMAC Response Code in the CMAC note element. The CMSP gateway may indicate the time the message was acknowledged in the CMAC sent date time element. The CMSP gateway may use the same message identifier in the acknowledgment as was specified in the CMAC message identifier element of the received keep alive message. Table VII below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for a CMSP gateway acknowledgement of an alert gateway initiated keep alive message.

The following is an exemplary format of a CMSP keep alive acknowledgement message from the CMSP gateway to the alert gateway 

The CMSP gateway may also indicate an error condition as a result of receiving an alert gateway initiated keep alive message. An error condition may be indicated by the CMAC message type element including Error and with one or more CMAC response codes in the CMAC note element. The remaining fields may include the values specified in the acknowledgement. Table VIII below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for a CMSP gateway error indication of an alert gateway initiated keep alive message.

The following is exemplary format of a keep alive error message with multiple error conditions reported sent from the CMSP gateway to the alert gateway 

In another embodiment the CMAS interface may enable the CMSP gateway to acknowledge receipt of a CMAC alert update or cancel message from the alert gateway . More specifically upon receipt and validation of the CMAC alert update or cancel message the CMSP gateway may send an acknowledgement to the alert gateway from which the CMSP gateway received the message. In an embodiment the acknowledgement from the CMSP gateway may be a CMAC message that only includes a CMAC alert attributes segment . In the acknowledgement the CMSP Gateway may provide an identifier of the CMSP gateway in the CMAC sending alert gateway id element and indicate the time the message is acknowledged in the CMAC sent date time element. The CMAC message identifier may include the identifier of the message that is being acknowledged. The CMAC status element may indicate that the acknowledgment is a system message. Table IX below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used to acknowledge a CMAC alert update or cancel message.

The following is an exemplary format of a CMSP acknowledgment in response to receiving a CMAC alert update or cancel message from the alert gateway 

In addition to or in lieu of providing an acknowledgment to the alert gateway the CMSP gateway may also indicate a received message error or other error condition as a result of receiving an alert gateway initiated alert update or cancel message. An error condition may be indicated by the CMAC message type element including Error with one or more CMAC response codes in the CMAC note element. The remaining fields may include values as specified in the CMSP acknowledgement. Table X below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for an error indication of an alert gateway initiated alert update or cancel message.

The following is an exemplary format of a keep alive error message with multiple error conditions reported sent from the CMSP gateway to the alert gateway 

In addition to acknowledgments and error messages the CMSP gateway may periodically issue a keep alive e.g. a heartbeat message to the alert gateway via the CMAS interface . The CMSP gateway may use the keep alive message to check on the status of the alert gateway . In an embodiment the keep alive message from the CMSP gateway may be a CMAC message that only includes the CMAC alert attributes segment . The keep alive message may be indicated by a CMAC status element value of System and a CMAC message type element value of Heartbeat. The CMSP gateway may indicate the time the message was initiated in the CMAC sent date time element. The CMSP gateway may assign a unique message identifier to the keep alive message that may be specified in the CMAC message identifier element. Table XI below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for a CMSP gateway initiated keep alive message.

The following is an exemplary format for a keep alive message initiated from the CMSP gateway and sent to the alert gateway 

Upon receipt of the CMSP gateway initiated keep alive message the alert gateway may send an acknowledgement of successful receipt or indicate an error condition. The keep alive acknowledgement from the alert gateway may be a CMAC message that only includes a CMAC alert attributes segment . The keep alive acknowledgement may be indicated by a CMAC status element value of System a CMAC message type element value of Ack and a CMAC Response Code in the CMAC note element. The alert gateway may indicate the time the message was acknowledged in the CMAC sent date time element. The alert gateway may use the same message identifier in the acknowledgment as was specified in the CMAC message identifier element of the received keep alive message from the CMSP gateway . Table XII below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for an alert gateway acknowledgement of a CMSP gateway initiated keep alive message.

The following is an exemplary format of a CMSP keep alive acknowledgement message from the alert gateway to the CMSP gateway 

The alert gateway may also indicate an error condition as a result of receiving the CMSP gateway initiated keep alive message. The error condition may be indicated by the CMAC message type element including Error and with one or more CMAC Response Codes in the CMAC note element. The remaining fields may include the values that were specified in the acknowledgement. Table XIII below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for an alert gateway error indication of a CMSP gateway initiated keep alive message.

The following is an exemplary format of a keep alive error message with an error condition reported that may be sent from the alert gateway to the CMSP gateway 

The CMSP gateway may have the option of receiving additional information from the alert gateway . This additional information may include the original CAP message that the alert gateway used to create the CMAM. In the event the CMSP gateway is unable to retrieve this additional information an error message may be sent by the CMSP gateway to the alert gateway to indicate the failure to retrieve this additional information.

The error message is a separate message from the acknowledgement of an alert update or cancel message sent by the CMSP gateway to the alert gateway and may be sent upon failure to retrieve additional information associated with the alert update or cancel message. Thus this error indication is generally not an indication of an error with the original alert update or cancel message.

When the CMSP gateway is unable to retrieve the additional information from the alert gateway using the URI specified either by the CMAC original cap alert uri or in the CMAC resource segment in the original alert update or cancel message the CMSP gateway may send a CMAC message to the alert gateway indicating its inability to retrieve the additional information. The CMAC message may only include a CMAC alert attributes segment . Upon receipt of this error indication the alert gateway may log the error. Table XIV below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for a CMSP gateway error indication of upon failure to retrieve additional information.

The following is an exemplary format of an error message for failure to retrieve additional information that may be sent from the CMSP gateway to the alert gateway 

The CMSP gateway may be configured to inform the alert gateway of maintenance or other error situations during which period the CMSP gateway cannot receive any messages from the alert gateway . This action may be requested via an error response code as a result of a keep alive message being received by the alert gateway . In addition the CMSP gateway may also request transmissions be ceased via a maintenance command on the CMSP gateway or internal error processing whereby the CMSP gateway may be configured to initiate a message to the alert gateway to cease transmissions. All transmissions including the keep alive message may be stopped as a result of this command.

Upon a maintenance command or other error condition at the CMSP gateway the CMSP gateway may issue a transmission control message to the alert gateway via the CMAS interface to cease message traffic destined for the CMSP gateway . The transmission control message may be a CMAC message that only includes the CMAC alert attributes segment . The transmission control message may be indicated by a CMAC status element value of System and a CMAC message type element value of Error with the CMAC note element indicating CMAC Resp  for a transient error on the CMSP gateway with a request to discontinue transmission of alerts. The CMSP gateway may indicate the time the message was initiated in the CMAC sent date time element. The CMSP gateway may assign a unique message identifier to the transmission control message that is specified in the CMAC message identifier element. Table XV below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for a CMSP gateway initiated transmission control message that ceases transmissions from the alert gateway .

The following is an exemplary format for a transmission control message initiated from the CMSP gateway and sent to the alert gateway that ceases transmissions 

After the maintenance or error condition is cleared the CMSP gateway may inform the alert gateway that the transmission of messages may resume using a transmission control message indicated by a CMAC status element value of System a CMAC message type element value of Error and a CMAC note element indicating CMAC Resp  to resume transmission of alerts to CMSP gateway . The CMSP gateway may indicate the time the message was initiated in the CMAC sent date time element. The CMSP gateway may use the same unique message identifier in the transmission control message as was used in the original message to cease transmissions either the transmission control message or the response to the keep alive message . The unique message identifier may be specified in the CMAC message identifier element. Table XVI below summarizes the particular CMAC elements that may be used for a CMSP gateway initiated transmission control message that resumes transmissions.

The following is an exemplary format for a transmission control message initiated from the CMSP gateway and sent to the alert gateway that resumes transmissions 

If the CMSP gateway determines that there is an error condition the CMSP gateway may send a CMAC error message to the alert gateway at . The CMAC error message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table X above for example. In the absence of an error condition the CMSP gateway may acknowledge receipt of the alert message at . For example the CMSP gateway may send a CMAC acknowledgment message to the alert gateway . The CMAC acknowledgment message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table IX above for example.

At the CMSP gateway may process the alert message using the CMAS interface into a suitable format for distribution to various electronic devices such as communications devices . For example the CMSP gateway may process the alert message into a CMAE message. An exemplary scheme for mapping CMAC elements to CMAE elements is shown in Appendix II. At the CMSP gateway may send the reformatted alert message to the wireless network for distribution to the communications devices for example.

As noted above the CMAS interface may facilitate the exchange of various messages between the CMSP gateway and the alert gateway . Thus at the CMSP gateway may receive a keep alive message from the alert gateway . The keep alive message from the alert gateway may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table VI above for example. At the CMSP gateway may then determine whether there is an error condition associated with the CMSP gateway itself and or with the keep alive message. If the CMSP gateway determines that an error condition exists e.g. there is insufficient storage space at the CMSP gateway the CMSP gateway may indicate the error condition to the alert gateway at . For example the CMSP gateway may send a CMAC error message to the alert gateway . The CMAC error message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table VIII above for example. In the absence of an error condition the CMSP gateway may acknowledge receipt of the keep alive message at . For example the CMSP gateway may send a CMAC acknowledgement message to the alert gateway . The CMAC acknowledgment message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table VII above for example.

Continuing with the CMSP gateway may send other types of messages to the alert gateway. For example at the CMSP gateway may send a keep alive message to the alert gateway . The keep alive message from the CMSP gateway may be a CMAC message having one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XI above for example. At the CMSP gateway may receive an indication of an error condition and or an acknowledgment from the alert gateway in response to the keep alive message. For example the CMSP gateway may receive a CMAC error message having one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XIII above. Alternatively the CMSP gateway may receive a CMAC acknowledgment message having one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XII. At the CMSP gateway may inform the alert gateway that it is unable to retrieve additional information from the alert gateway . For example the CMSP gateway may send a CMAC message having one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XIV above.

In some situations the CMSP gateway may be unable to receive or exchange message traffic with the alert gateway . For example at the CMSP gateway may inform the alert gateway of a maintenance and or error situation. In such instances at the CMSP gateway may send the alert gateway a transmission control message instructing the alert gateway to cease message traffic to the CMSP gateway . The transmission control message may include on or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XV above for example. After the maintenance is complete or the error situation has been addressed the CMSP gateway may send the alert gateway another transmission control message instructing the alert gateway to resume message traffic to the CMSP gateway . This transmission control message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XVI above for example.

It will be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in may be omitted from the method while remaining consistent with an embodiment. In addition the sequence of the elements depicted in are for illustrative purposes only. Thus other suitable sequences are also consistent with an embodiment. For example the CMSP gateway may inform the alert gateway of a maintenance or error situation as depicted at prior to issuing a keep alive message to the alert gateway as depicted at .

As noted above the CMAS interface may facilitate the exchange of various types of messages between the alert gateway and the CMSP gateway . For example at the alert gateway may send a keep alive message to the CMSP gateway . The keep alive message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table VI above for example. After the keep alive message is sent the alert gateway may receive an acknowledgement and or one or more error conditions from the CMSP gateway at in response to the keep alive message. The acknowledgement from the CMSP gateway may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table VII above for example. The error condition s indicated by the CMSP gateway may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table VIII above for example.

Continuing with at the alert gateway may also periodically receive keep alive messages from the CMSP gateway . In response to the keep alive message from the CMSP gateway the alert gateway may determine whether there is one or more error conditions at e.g. the alert gateway may determine if it has insufficient storage . If the alert gateway determines that there is an error condition the alert gateway may indicate the error condition to the CMSP gateway at . The error condition indicated by the alert gateway may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XIII above for example. In the absence of an error condition the alert gateway may send an acknowledgement to the CMSP gateway that the keep alive was message received at . The acknowledgment from the alert gateway may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XII above for example. At the alert gateway may receive an indication that the CMSP gateway is unable to retrieve additional information from the alert gateway . The indication that the CMSP gateway is unable to retrieve additional information may be a CMAC message having one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XIV above for example.

Continuing with the alert gateway may receive an indication from the CMSP gateway of a maintenance and or error situation at . In such instances at the alert gateway may receive a transmission control message from the CMSP gateway instructing the alert gateway to cease message traffic to the CMSP gateway . The transmission control message may include on or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XV above for example. In response to the transmission control message at the alert gateway may stop sending message traffic to the CMSP gateway at . After the maintenance is complete or the error situation has been addressed the alert gateway may receive another transmission control message from the CMSP gateway instructing the alert gateway to resume message traffic at . This transmission control message may include one or more CMAC elements as illustrated in Table XVI above for example. In response to the transmission control message at the alert gateway may resume sending message traffic to the CMSP gateway at .

It will be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in may be omitted from the method while remaining consistent with an embodiment. In addition the sequence of the elements depicted in are for illustrative purposes only. Thus other suitable sequences are also consistent with an embodiment. For example the alert gateway may receive a keep alive message from the CMSP gateway as depicted at prior to sending a keep alive message to the CMSP gateway as depicted at .

In exemplary fashion the packet traffic originating from one or more user devices e.g. the communication device may be transported via an over the air interface to the BTS and from the BTS to the BSC . Base station subsystems such as the BSS may be part of an internal frame relay network that may include a Service GPRS Support Nodes SGSN such as SGSNs . As shown in the SGSN may be connected to an internal packet network through which the SGSN may route data packets to and from a plurality of gateway GPRS support nodes GGSNs such as GGSNs . As illustrated the SGSN and the GGSNs may be part of the internal packet network . The GGSNs typically provide an interface to external Internet Protocol IP networks such as a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN corporate intranets or a Fixed End System FES or the public Internet . As illustrated a corporate network may be connected to the GGSN via a firewall and the PLMN may be connected to the GGSN via a boarder gateway router . A Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server may be used for caller authentication when a user of a mobile cellular device such as communications device calls the corporate network .

Generally there may be four different cell sizes in a GSM network referred to as macro micro pico and umbrella cells. The coverage area of each cell is different in different environments. Macro cells may be regarded as cells in which the base station antenna is installed in a mast or a building above average roof top level. Micro cells may be cells whose antenna height is under average roof top level. Micro cells may typically be used in urban areas. Pico cells may include small cells having a diameter of a few dozen meters. Pico cells may be used mainly indoors. On the other hand umbrella cells may be used to cover shadowed regions of smaller cells and or fill in gaps in coverage between those cells.

The radio access network may include a plurality of BSSs such as a BSS which may include a BTS and a BSC . The core network may have a host of various network elements. As shown in the core network may have a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Service Control Point SCP a gateway MSC a SGSN a Home Location Register HLR an Authentication Center AuC a Domain Name Server DNS and a GGSN . The interconnect network may also include a host of various networks and network elements. For example the interconnect network may include a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Fixed End System FES or Internet a firewall and a corporate network .

The MSC may be connected to a large number of BSCs. At the MSC for instance depending on the type of traffic the traffic may be separated in that voice may be sent to the PSTN through the GMSC and or data may be sent to the SGSN which then sends the data traffic to the GGSN for further forwarding.

When the MSC receives call traffic for example from the BSC the MSC may send a query to a database hosted by the SCP . The SCP may process the request and issues a response to the MSC so that the MSC may continue call processing as appropriate.

The HLR often is a centralized database for subscribers to register to the GPRS network. The HLR may store static information about each subscriber such as the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI subscribed services and a key for authentication. The HLR may also store dynamic subscriber information such as the subscriber s current location. Associated with the HLR is the AuC . The AuC may be a database that contains the algorithms for authenticating subscribers and includes the associated keys for encryption to safeguard the user input for authentication.

In the following depending on context the term mobile subscriber sometimes refers to the end user and sometimes to the actual portable device such as the communications device used by an end user of the mobile cellular service. When a mobile subscriber turns on his or her communications device the device typically goes through an attach process by which the device attaches to a SGSN of the GPRS network such as the SGSN shown in . When mobile subscriber initiates the attach process by turning on the network capabilities of the communications device an attach request may be sent by the device to the SGSN . The SGSN may then query another SGSN not shown to which the mobile subscriber was attached before for the identity of the mobile subscriber . Upon receiving the identity of the mobile subscriber from the other SGSN the SGSN may request more information from the mobile subscriber . This information is used to authenticate the mobile subscriber to the SGSN by the HLR . Once verified the SGSN may send a location update to the HLR indicating the change of location to a new SGSN in this case the SGSN . The HLR may notify the old SGSN to which mobile subscriber was attached before to cancel the location process for the mobile subscriber . The HLR may then notify the SGSN that the location update has been performed. At this time the SGSN may send an Attach Accept message to the communications device associated with the mobile subscriber . The communications device may send an Attach Complete message to the SGSN .

After attaching itself with the network the mobile subscriber may then go through the authentication process. In the authentication process the SGSN may send the authentication information to the HLR which may send information back to the SGSN based on the subscriber s profile that was part of the subscriber s initial setup. The SGSN may then send a request for authentication and ciphering to the communications device associated with the mobile subscriber . The communications device may use an algorithm to send the user identification ID and password to the SGSN . The SGSN may use the same algorithm and compare the result. If a match occurs the SGSN typically authenticates the mobile subscriber .

Next the communications device may establish a user session with the destination network such as the corporate network by going through a Packet Data Protocol PDP activation process. Briefly in the process the communications device may request access to an Access Point Name APN such as UPS.com. The SGSN may receive the activation request from the communications device . The SGSN may then initiate a Domain Name Service DNS query to learn which GGSN node has access to the UPS.com APN. The DNS query may be sent to the DNS server in the core network which may be provisioned to map to one or more GGSN nodes in the core network . Based on the APN the mapped GGSN may access the requested corporate network . The SGSN may then send to the GGSN a Create Packet Data Protocol PDP Context Request message that contains necessary information. The GGSN may send a Create PDP Context Response message to the SGSN which may then send an Activate PDP Context Accept message to the communications device associated with the mobile subscriber .

Once activated data packets of the call made by the mobile subscriber may then go through the radio access network the core network and the interconnect network in the particular fixed end system or Internet and the firewall to reach corporate network .

Thus network elements that can invoke the functionality of sending and or receiving EAS messages and alerts may include but are not limited to Gateway GPRS Support Node tables Fixed End System router tables firewall systems VPN tunnels and any number of other network elements as required by the particular digital network.

While example embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices the underlying concepts can be applied to any computing device or system capable of processing EAS alerts. The various techniques described herein can be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus for implementing aspects of one or more embodiments may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for selectively processing a broadcast message. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The methods and apparatus for the methods and apparatus for implementing aspects of one or more embodiments may also be practiced via communications embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for selectively processing a broadcast message. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to process EAS alerts. Additionally any storage techniques used in connection with processing EAS alerts can invariably be a combination of hardware and software.

While the disclosed embodiments have been described in connection with the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the disclosed embodiments for performing the same function s without deviating therefrom. For example one skilled in the art will recognize that various instructions not specifically disclosed herein for interfacing an alert gateway to a CMSP gateway may be utilized. Further one skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments disclosed herein may apply to any environment whether wired or wireless and may be applied to any number of devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Therefore the embodiments should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

