---

title: Methods and apparatus for the identification of materials using photons scattered from the nuclear “PYGMY resonance”
abstract: The scattered intensity of photons from the nuclear Pygmy Resonance taken in conjunction with the scattered intensity at lower energies provides a signal that is sensitive to the nature of the nuclear species doing the scattering. Highly enriched uranium and depleted uranium can be distinguished by this signal from other materials. Other nuclei can also be distinguished and identified. Methods and apparatus for employing the phenomenon to identify or assist in the identification of materials are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949097&OS=07949097&RS=07949097
owner: Passport Systems, Inc.
number: 07949097
owner_city: Billerica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081230
---
This present application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 018 034 entitled A Method for the Identification of Materials Using Photons Scattered from the Nuclear Pygmy Resonance which was filed on Dec. 31 2007 by William Bertozzi and Robert J. Ledoux and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Portions of the disclosed subject matter were developed with support from the Department of Homeland Security award issued by SPAWAR Systems Center under Contract s N66001 05 D 6011 0002 and N66001 07 D 0025 0001. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in those portions of the disclosed subject matter.

This disclosure relates to the use of photons scattered from the nuclear Pygmy Resonance to enable or assist in the identification of nuclear species and materials. The nuclear species or materials may for example be included in a cargo or shipping container and the methods and systems disclosed herein may enable or assist in the detection and or identification of contraband security threats and or hazardous materials.

It is an object of the disclosure to provide methods for the identification of or for assisting in the identification of and or for spatially localizing a material such as an element or an isotope or a mixture thereof by measurement of and or by analysis of photons scattered by the Pygmy Resonance in the nuclei in the material.

It is a further object of the disclosure to provide apparatus for identifying or for assisting in the identification of and or for spatially localizing a material such as an element or an isotope or a mixture thereof by making and or analyzing measurements of photons scattered by the Pygmy Resonance in the nuclei in the material.

The embodiments described herein are exemplary of the possible applications of the technology and methods disclosed for the identification of nuclei and materials via the photons scattered in the region of energy of the Pygmy Resonance compared to other portions of the scattered photon spectrum. Those experienced in the art will recognize that there are extensions modifications and other arrangements of the important elements disclosed that can be implemented and they are included as part of this disclosure.

The Pygmy Resonance has been observed in photon scattering 208Pb N. Ryezayevea et al Physical Review letters Volume 89 Number 27 272502 1 272502 4 2002 and references cited therein by many experimenters.

In this disclosure data are presented using a NaI Tl detector for several exemplary targets and methods and apparatus for distinguishing the nuclei and materials in the various target materials based on scattering in the region of the Pygmy Resonance are disclosed.

The target materials in were irradiated using a continuous spectrum beam of bremsstrahlung photons obtained by directing a 9 MeV electron beam onto a thick copper bremsstrahlung target. The measured photons are from scattering at 110 degrees. The resulting energy spectra have been normalized to the peak of the 0.511 MeV annihilation line. The spectra are appropriately corrected for differential effects of attenuation in detectors and target materials and backgrounds using conventional correction techniques that are well understood by those skilled in this art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 286 638 Ledoux et al. Methods And Systems For Determining The Average Atomic Number And Mass Of Materials and U.S. Pat. No. 7 120 226 Ledoux et al. Adaptive Scanning Of Materials Using Nuclear Resonance Fluorescence Imaging both incorporated herein by reference. Although a thick copper bremsstrahlung target was used to generate the photons employed in irradiating the target materials when collecting the spectra in many different bremsstrahlung target materials may be effectively employed for those bremsstrahlung target materials commonly employed only small changes to the energy spectra in would result not effecting the generality of the technique. The methods disclosed herein are not limited to a particular target material for generating bremsstrahlung photons. The design of the bremsstrahlung target depends on the nature of the photon beam desired and can be a material such as water cooled tungsten for beams of wide angular spread or of a design such as that contained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 121 515 Bertozzi et. al. Thin Walled Tube Radiator For Bremsstrahlung At High Electron Beam Intensities for beams of narrow angular spreads. Those experienced in the art will recognize the use of different bremsstrahlung target designs are possible and it is intended that all are included herein as part of this disclosure.

The ratios of the counts in these energy regions for each target material are chosen for example to be 

These ratios have been chosen to be measures that can indicate the difference in the shapes of these spectra where one energy region in each ratio includes most of the Pygmy Resonance and the other energy region is well below the energy of the Pygmy Resonance. The energy regions chosen for the ratios and the ratios themselves are not intended to be the only such measurements that may be used to analyze the spectral data but rather to illustrate examples of various possible measures that can extract information to distinguish the target materials.

These ratios are summarized in in the form of a histogram for the three ratios B A D C and D A for each of the target materials DU HEU Pb W Sn and Fe. The histogram shows how different ratios B A D C and D A allow distinguishing the various target materials from each other and the relative ease or difficulty in making such a decision for various combinations of materials and various ratios. For best ease of detection different ratios may be used to distinguish between different pairs of elements and in particular to distinguish between targets of interest as potential threats DU and HEU and common place materials in containers or other objects being examined Pb W Sn and Fe. For example D A may be used to separate DU and HEU from Pb and W. Sn may be distinguished from HEU and DU by the ratios D C and B A respectively and Fe may be distinguished from HEU by the ratio D C and from DU by the ratios B A and D C. Of course others of the ratios also may be used to distinguish these materials from HEU and DU as well.

The details discussed herein are meant to be exemplary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other ratios other energy regions other continuous spectrum bremsstrahlung energies and monochromatic or nearly monochromatic photon beams that span the selected photon energy ranges can be used to distinguish between materials with different nuclear species and thus specific isotopes may be identified. Although the discussion has been limited to certain exemplary target materials the use of the technique is not limited to those materials. The use of ratios to describe the spectra is also exemplary of more general techniques that compare the shapes of the spectra and establish criteria for identifying nuclear species or materials based on calibrated characteristics and the use of statistical methods such as that of maximum likelihood. The normalization of the spectra to the 0.511 MeV annihilation peak is also exemplary and alternative normalization techniques will suffice if normalization is desired although normalization is not required for all techniques. Also different detector arrangements and different scattering angles can be used to achieve results that distinguish between species and identify a species. These other modalities are all included as part of this disclosure.

While certain specific nuclei and materials are used herein to demonstrate the methods disclosed herein those skilled in the art will recognize that other nuclei heavy enough to satisfy the requirement Z

The intersection of the beam and the collimated views by the detectors of the target define voxels spatially corresponding to the target areas and within the target that is being interrogated. Some of the photon beam may interact with a monitor target that may measure the incident photon flux. Some of the photon beam is transmitted through the container and the target and may interact with a monitor target that may measure the transmitted photon flux. Signals representing the incident photon flux and the transmitted photon flux may be transmitted to one or more computers via signal leads and or wirelessly. The detectors may be sensitive to photon energy and be capable of recording and transmitting these signals to one or more computers via signal leads and or wirelessly. Computers and or may record and analyze the nature of the signals received from the detectors and or the monitor targets and according to algorithms developed for the purpose of identification of the material in the target in the container according to the methods disclosed herein. Shielding of the detectors from the photon source and from other incidental scatterers as well as the collimation of the view of the detectors may be achieved by for example shield in a conventional manner as will be understood by those skilled in the art.

The photon source may be continuously distributed in energy such as a bremsstrahlung source as described above.

The photon source may be monochromatic or nearly monochromatic or limited to a range in energy such as those photons produced by one or a combination of techniques known to those skilled in the art including nuclear reactions such as n p Compton scattering and laser back scattering. These monochromatic or limited energy range photon sources may contain several photon energy lines and optionally only one or a few of those photon energy lines may be used in these embodiments. Those skilled in the art will recognize that there are many possibilities for the photon source even though the source used to generate the data presented herein is a bremsstrahlung source and they are all included in this disclosure as sources suitable for practicing the methods disclosed herein.

In some embodiments to identify a nuclear species or material including a combination of species such as HEU or DU in a voxel corresponding to a target area the ratios of counts in energy ranges A B C and or D and or other possible ranges or other mathematical analyses or parameterizations of the shape of the energy distribution or characteristics of the counts in each range may be determined. These results may be compared to a table of predetermined ratios analyses and parameters for specific nuclear species and materials. The table may be prepared using predetermined calibration targets and photon sources and the energy ranges and ratios and shape parameters of the energy distribution of the scattered photons may be prepared to make the determination of a nuclear species or material as sensitive as possible.

In other embodiments the identification of the nuclear species or material along a path through the target may be used to calculate the total expected attenuation of the photon beam along that path and this expected attenuation may be compared to the attenuation of the beam as determined by the measurements provided by a comparison of incident photon flux and the transmitted photon flux measured by the monitor targets and . This comparison may then be used to alter the version of the comparison table used to determine the nuclear species or material. Further any information on the material in the target can be used to self consistently correct the scattered photon distribution for effects such as energy dependence of photon absorption.

In other embodiments the detectors may include high resolution detectors that use Nuclear Resonance Fluorescence NRF techniques to identify an isotope and its mass in a voxel corresponding to a target area or . This data may be used in combination with Pygmy Resonance data identifying a nuclear species or material in any of several ways. For example an isotope may be a contributor to the counts in the energy regions used for the identification methods based on the Pygmy Resonance disclosed herein and may dilute the signal that is provided by the Pygmy Resonance to determine the presence of another nuclear species or material. The NRF data can be used to correct the signals for the contaminating isotope. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 115 459 Bertozzi Explosives Detection Using Resonance Fluorescence of Bremsstrahlung Radiation U.S. Pat. No. 5 420 905 Bertozzi Detection of Explosives and Other Materials Using Resonance Fluorescence Resonance Absorption and Other Electromagnetic Processes with Bremsstrahlung Radiation and U.S. Pat. No. 7 120 226 Ledoux et al. Adaptive Scanning Of Materials Using Nuclear Resonance Fluorescence Imaging the contents all of which are hereby incorporated by reference. It may be advantageous to use the techniques described herein in combination with techniques set forth in those patents to improve detection.

In some embodiments a high resolution detector such as high purity germanium may be used. In others a lower resolution detector such as a NaI Tl scintillator may be used. Other detectors may be used in different combinations and they are all included in this disclosure.

Although the methods and systems have been described relative to specific embodiments thereof they are not so limited. Obviously many modifications and variations may become apparent in light of the above teachings. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the disclosure. It should be realized that the methods and systems disclosed herein are also capable of a wide variety of further and other embodiments within the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the exemplary embodiments described specifically herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed in the scope of the present disclosure.

