---

title: Use of unsaturated sphingosine compounds as chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer
abstract: The present invention is directed to unsaturated sphingosine compounds which are useful as therapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer and for the treatment of other diseases including diabetes and infection with intracellular bacteria. This invention is also directed to methods of using the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds in treating these diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08741967&OS=08741967&RS=08741967
owner: Research Foundation of the City University of New York
number: 08741967
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081212
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 013 230 filed Dec. 12 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. RAT005336A CA 129438 CA77528 GM66954 and HL 083187 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The Sequence Listing associated with this application is provided in text format in lieu of a paper copy and is hereby incorporated by reference into the specification. The name of the text file containing the Sequence Listing is 200116409USPC SEQUENCE LISTING.txt. The text file is 22 KB was created on Jun. 10 2010 and is being submitted electronically via EFS Web concurrent with the filing of the specification.

The present invention is directed to unsaturated sphingosine compounds which are useful as therapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer and for the treatment of other diseases including diabetes and infection with intracellular bacteria. This invention is also directed to methods of using the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds in treating these diseases.

Colon cancer is the second most common cancer of men and women and the third leading cause of cancer mortality 1 . It is estimated that 8.4 billion per year is spent caring for patients with this disease in the United States. Identifying chemopreventive agents and dietary constituents that facilitate the turnover of intestinal epithelial cells containing DNA damage and or that block the progression of premalignant intestinal tissue to frank carcinoma could have a significant impact on public health. Similarly novel agents that could be used to treat the 50 of colon cancer patients suffering from advanced or refractory disease are needed.

In mammalian cells sphingolipid structure composition and metabolism have been well characterized 2 3 . Knowledge of sphingolipid structure has facilitated in depth analyses of the contribution of sphingolipids to membrane organization and their function in signal transduction events and normal physiology. Such studies have defined an important role for higher order sphingolipids in the formation of membrane subdomains lipid rafts wherein growth factor signaling and recruitment occur 4 7 and sphingolipid metabolites such as sphingosine ceramide sphingosine 1 phosphate and ceramide 1 phosphate have been shown to participate in signaling pathways regulating the key processes of cellular proliferation migration stress responses apoptosis angiogenesis and immune cell trafficking 8 13 . Dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism has been implicated as a contributing factor in carcinogenesis cancer progression and drug resistance 14 15 . Recently it was shown that sphingolipid metabolism is disrupted in the mucosal epithelium during intestinal tumorigenesis and contributes to tumor progression 16 17 . In contrast the accumulation of endogenous growth inhibitory sphingolipids such as ceramide is recognized as a mechanism of action of some cytotoxic agents 18 . The presence of the Cdouble bond in the sphingoid base is believed to confer cytotoxic biological activity as dihydrosphingosine and dihydroceramide are not cytotoxic in most cells. Strategies to enhance ceramide production and accumulation in malignant cells have been considered a novel approach for cancer therapy 19 21 .

Sphingolipids are conserved throughout evolution and as such are enriched in many constituents of the human diet including meat dairy and soy products 22 24 . Normal consumption of sphingolipids is estimated to be about 0.3 0.4 grams per day. Dietary sphingolipids are metabolized to ceramide and ultimately to sphingosine by brush border enzymes in the gut epithelium 25 . Sphingosine but not ceramide is taken up by intestinal epithelial cells where it inhibits growth 26 27 . Thus intestinal epithelial cells are exposed to sphingolipids from both intracellular synthesis and from the diet. Dietary sphingolipids have been shown to be cytotoxic to colon cancer cells in vitro and consumption of sphingolipids suppresses colon carcinogenesis in rodents 26 32 .

Studies have been conducted on the physiological roles of sphingolipids in the genetically tractable organism . In this species tight regulation of sphingolipid levels is required for proper development reproduction and the maintenance of tissue integrity as demonstrated by the severe phenotypes observed in mutants with disrupted sphingolipid metabolism 33 37 . However a clear understanding of the role of sphingolipid metabolism and in particular the mechanisms by which sphingolipid metabolites influence physiological processes in this organism has been hampered by an incomplete knowledge of the chemical structure of endogenous sphingolipids and their metabolic products.

The AKT PI3 kinase pathway has emerged as a central signaling node responsible for adjusting the metabolic and biosynthetic operations of the cell in response to changing nutrient and environmental conditions Woodgett J. R. Recent advances in the protein kinase B signaling pathway. Curr Opin Cell Biol 17 2 150 157 2005 Ruggero D. and Sonenberg N. The Akt of translational control. Oncogene 24 50 7426 7434 2005 . Activation of the pathway facilitates cell cycle progression inhibits apoptosis and enhances nutrient uptake and protein synthesis leading to increased cell growth and survival. The PIkinase AKT pathway is normally activated by tyrosine kinase receptor ligation which activates class I phosphoinositol 3 kinase PIK . PIK phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate PIP generating phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 trisphosphate PIP which facilitates membrane recruitment and activation of the protein kinase AKT by virtue of the latter s lipophilic pleckstrin homology domain PHD . Activated AKT subsequently phosphorylates downstream targets controlling cell growth and survival. The tumor suppressor PTEN antagonizes AKT signaling by catalyzing the dephosphorylation of PIPto PIP Ramaswamy S. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 96 2110 2115 1999 . Activating mutations in the PIK AKT pathway are commonly found in human malignancies including colon cancer Tohma Y. et al. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol 57 7 684 689 1998 Carpten J. D. et al. Nature 448 7152 439 444 2007 Vivanco I. and Sawyers C. L. Nat Rev Cancer 2 7 489 501 2002 .

Akt is a central player in the regulation of cell metabolism cell survival motility transcription and cell cycle progression see e.g. Fayard et al. 2005 118 5675 78 . The Akt subfamily comprises three mammalian isoforms Akt1 Akt2 and Akt3 which are products of distinct genes and share a conserved structure that includes three functional domains an N terminal pleckstrin homology PH domain a central kinase domain and a C terminal regulatory domain.

Akt is a downstream component in the phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K pathway. Akt is activated by numerous upstream PI3K regulatory components including for example receptor tyrosine kinases integrins B and T cell receptors cytokine receptors G protein coupled receptors and other stimuli that induce the production of lipid phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 triphosphates PtdIns 3 4 5 P3 through PI3K. Certain studies report as well that Akt can be activated in a PI3K independent manner see e.g. Vanhaesebroeck and Alessi 2000 346 561 576 .

PtdIns 3 4 5 triphosphates serve as plasma membrane docking sites for both Akt and its upstream activator PI3K dependent kinase 1 PDK1 by interacting with their PH domains. Akt interaction with PtdIns 3 4 5 P3 promotes Akt translocation from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane where Akt undergoes phosphorylation at two sites Thr308 in the activation loop and Ser473 in the carboxy terminal tail. PDK 1 phosphorylates Akt at Thr308 but the Ser473 kinase remains unknown. Phosphorylated Akt translocates from the plasma membrane to the cytosol or the nucleus where it acts on its downstream substrates.

When properly regulated activated Akt eventually undergoes dephosphorylation by phosphatases and returns to the inactive state. For example the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homology PTEN and the SH2 domain containing inositol polyphosphate 5 phosphatase SHIP indirectly inhibit Akt activity by regulating PtdIns 3 4 5 P3. In addition protein phosphatase 2A PP2A and PH domain leucine repeat protein phospatase PHLPP directly dephosphorylate Akt at Thr308 and or Ser473.

Akt mediates many of the downstream events regulated by PI3K. Of particular interest to cancer therapy Akt regulates the activity of numerous substrates associated with cell proliferation including for example p27 Chk1 Yes associated protein YAP p53 murine double minute Mdm 2 I B kinase IKK Par 4 caspase 9 the family of forkhead box Fox transcription factors p70 S6 kinase pathway through mammalian target of rapamycin mTor or Raf1 Bad glycogen synthase kinase 3 a GSK 3a glycogen synthase the androgen receptor cyclin D1 and p21. Most of these substrates comprise the minimal consensus sequence RxTxx S T where x is any amino acid and S T is the phosphorylation site. Generally Akt downstream activity promotes cell survival for example by either positively regulating cellular proliferation pathways or by preventing apoptosis. Although constitutive Akt action alone is believed to be insufficient for tumorigenesis Akt over activity is implicated in many types of cancer.

Also relevant to cancer therapy Akt plays a dual role in cell motility enhancing motility in certain cells such as fibroblasts and inhibiting motility in other cells such as epithelial cells. For example Akt expression in fibrosarcoma and pancreatic cancer cells increases their invasion through Matrigel and Akt expression can promote epithelial mesenchymal transition a process associated with tumor progression to invasive and metastatic carcinoma. In contrast as one example of Akt inhibition of motility the Akt1 isoform in particular limits the invasive migration breast cancer cells most likely by stabilizing Mdm2 and thus accelerating the degradation of the NFAT transcriptional regulator see e.g. Toker et al. 2006 66 3963 66 .

Akt is also a regulator of insulin signaling and glucose metabolism and its activation through the PI3K pathway is essential for most insulin induced glucose and lipid metabolism such as glucose uptake glycogen synthesis suppression of glucose output triglyceride synthesis as well as insulin induced mitogenesis see e.g. Asano et al. 2007 30 1610 1616 . For example GLUT 4 is the primary glucose transporter in skeletal muscle cells and adipocytes and plays a role in insulin mediated glucose disposal. Insulin activates Akt through the PI3K pathway causing GLUT 4 translocation to the plasma membrane and an increase in basal glucose transport. Akt effects glucose metabolism in other ways as PI3K and Akt inhibitors inhibit not only insulin induced glucose uptake but inhibit glycogen synthesis as well.

Studies also implicate Akt in intracellular bacterial growth see e.g. Kuijl et al. 2007 450 725 730 . The effector SopB activates Akt1 which promotes bacterial intracellular survival by controlling actin dynamics through PAK 4 and by controlling phagosome lysosome fusion through the AS160 RAB14 pathway. Akt1 inhibitors may counteract the bacterial manipulation of host signaling processes controlling the intracellular growth of bacteria such as and

The Wnt signaling pathway involves a large number of proteins that can regulate the production of Wnt signaling molecules their interactions with receptors on target cells and the physiological responses of target cells that result from the exposure of cells to the extracellular Wnt ligands. The canonical Wnt pathway involves a series of cellular events that occur when Wnt proteins bind to cell surface receptors of the Frizzled family causing the receptors to activate Dishevelled family proteins and ultimately resulting in a change in the amount of catenin that reaches the nucleus. Dishevelled DSH is a key component of a membrane associated Wnt receptor complex which when activated by Wnt binding inhibits a second complex of proteins that includes axin GSK 3 and the protein APC. The axin GSK 3 APC complex normally promotes the proteolytic degradation of the catenin intracellular signaling molecule. After this catenin destruction complex is inhibited a pool of cytoplasmic catenin stabilizes and some catenin is able to enter the nucleus and interact with TCF LEF family transcription factors to promote specific gene expression see Gordon M D and Nusse R. J Biol Chem. 2006 Aug. 11 281 32 22429 33 Hausmann G et al. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2007 April 8 4 331 6 Clevers H Cell 2006 469 2006 Nusse R. Science 316 988 2007 .

Activation of the Wnt signaling pathway leads to catenin migration into the nucleus where it interacts with and converts the T cell factor TCF transcription factor from a repressor to an activator inducing target genes that mediate proliferation adhesion and migratory responses Fuchs S. Y. et al. Cell Cycle 4 11 1522 1539 2005 . Mutations in the APC gene a negative regulator of the Wnt pathway are responsible for intestinal polyposis in Apc also called Min mice and colon cancer in the human disease Familial Adenomatous Polyposis FAP Kucherlapati R. et al. Semin Cancer Biol 11 3 219 225 2001 Sansom O. J. et al. Genes Dev 18 12 1385 1390 2004 . A high incidence of mutations in APC or other components of the Wnt pathway has been identified in sporadic colon cancer indicating the central role that Wnt signaling plays in intestinal tumorigenesis Sancho E. et al. Annu Rev Cell Dev Biol 20 695 723 2004 . In fact activation of the Wnt pathway is considered one of the first molecular changes contributing to colon carcinogenesis Kinzler K. W. and Vogelstein B. Cell 87 2 159 170 1996 .

Accordingly there exists a need for improved understanding of sphingolipid pathways and intermediates and of their role in influencing signaling pathways such as the AKT PI3 kinase pathway and the Wnt signalling pathway and their roles in cellular physiology including molecular mechanisms of cancer. Disclosed herein are compositions and methods that address this need by providing unsaturated sphingosine compounds that are useful in treating cancer and other diseases and which offer other related advantages.

This invention is directed in certain embodiments to unsaturated sphingosine compounds methods of using such compounds in treating cancer and other diseases as described herein and pharmaceutical compositions comprising such compounds.

Accordingly in one embodiment this invention is directed to a method of treating a cancer in a mammal wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I 

In another embodiment this invention is directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another embodiment this invention is directed to methods of treating cancer in a mammal wherein the methods comprise administering to the mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another embodiment this invention provides assays to determine the effectiveness of a compound of the invention in treating cancer.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for altering the activity of a component of the AKT PI3 kinase signaling pathway in a mammal wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another embodiment of the invention provides a method for inhibiting sphingosine kinase activity in a mammal wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method for inhibiting the Wnt signaling pathway in a mammal wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In another embodiment of the invention provides a method for inducing apoptosis in a cell wherein the method comprises contacting the cell with a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In certain embodiments this is an in vivo method whereby the compound is administered to a mammal. In another embodiment this method may be an ex vivo or in vitro method.

In another embodiment of the invention provides a method for inducing autophagy in a cell wherein the method comprises contacting the cell with a compound of formula I as described above as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In certain embodiments this method is an in vivo method whereby the compound is administered to a mammal. In another embodiment this method may be an ex vivo or in vitro method.

These and other aspects of the invention will be evident upon reference to the following detailed description and attached drawings.

All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if each was incorporated individually. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments of the invention.

As used in the specification and appended claims unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated 

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing no unsaturation having from one to fourteen carbon atoms preferably one to eight carbon atoms or one to six carbon atoms lower alkyl and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond for example methyl ethyl n propyl 1 methylethyl isopropyl n butyl n pentyl 1 1 dimethylethyl tert butyl 3 methylhexyl 2 methylhexyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl radical may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents halo cyano nitro oxo thioxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 S O OR where t is 1 or 2 S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocylylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkenyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing at least one double bond having from two to twelve carbon atoms preferably one to eight carbon atoms and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond for example ethenyl prop 1 enyl but 1 enyl pent 1 enyl penta 1 4 dienyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents halo cyano nitro oxo thioxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 S O OR where t is 1 or 2 S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocylylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkynyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing at least one triple bond optionally containing at least one double bond having from two to twelve carbon atoms preferably one to eight carbon atoms and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond for example ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents halo cyano nitro oxo thioxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 S O OR where t is 1 or 2 S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocylylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkylene or alkylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing no unsaturation and having from one to twelve carbon atoms for example methylene ethylene propylene n butylene and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single bond and to the radical group through a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon in the alkylene chain or through any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents halo cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo thioxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 S O OR where t is 1 or 2 S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocylylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkenylene or alkenylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing at least one double bond and having from two to twelve carbon atoms for example ethenylene propenylene n butenylene and the like. The alkenylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a double bond or a single bond and to the radical group through a double bond or a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkenylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkenylene chain may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents halo cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo thioxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O OR C O N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 S O OR where t is 1 or 2 S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocylylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Alkynylene or alkynylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing at least one triple bond and having from two to twelve carbon atoms for example propynylene n butynylene and the like. The alkynylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single bond and to the radical group through a double bond or a single bond. The points of attachment of the alkynylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkynylene chain may be optionally substituted by one or more of the following substituents alkyl alkenyl halo haloalkenyl cyano nitro aryl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl oxo thioxo trimethylsilanyl OR OC O R N R C O R C O R C O OR C O N R N R N R C O OR N R C O R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 S O OR where t is 1 or 2 S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl heterocyclyl heterocylylalkyl heteroaryl or heteroarylalkyl.

 Aryl refers to a hydrocarbon ring system radical comprising hydrogen 6 to 14 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the aryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic system and which may include spiro ring systems. An aryl radical is commonly but not necessarily attached to the parent molecule via an aromatic ring of the aryl radical. For purposes of this invention an aryl radical as defined herein can not contain rings having more than 7 members and cannot contain rings wherein two non adjacent ring atoms thereof are connected through an atom or a group of atoms i.e. a bridged ring system . Aryl radicals include but are not limited to aryl radicals derived from acenaphthylene anthracene azulene benzene 6 7 8 9 tetrahydro 5H benzo 7 annulene fluorene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene phenalene and phenanthrene. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term optionally substituted aryl is meant to include aryl radicals optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl cyano nitro optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted aralkenyl optionally substituted aralkynyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkenyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkynyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkenyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkynyl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkenyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkynyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R O R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 R S O OR where t is 1 or 2 R S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heteroaryl and optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or two R s together with the common nitrogen to which they are both attached may optionally form an optionally substituted N heterocyclyl or an optionally substituted N heteroaryl each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain and Ris a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain.

 Aralkyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above for example benzyl diphenylmethyl and the like. The alkylene chain part of the aralkyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an alkylene chain. The aryl part of the aralkyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an aryl.

 Aralkenyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above. The aryl part of the aralkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an aryl. The alkenylene chain part of the aralkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenylene group.

 Aralkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkynylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above. The aryl part of the aralkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for an aryl. The alkynylene chain part of the aralkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain.

 Arylene refers to an aryl radical as defined above which forms part of a chain in a compound of the invention. The arylene is divalent in that it is attached to the rest of the molecule through two carbons in the arylene. The arylene may be optionally substituted as set forth above for aryl radicals. An example of an arylene is the following group where the line represents the attachment points of the arylene to the rest of the molecule 

 Cycloalkyl refers to a stable non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which may include spiro or bridged ring systems having from three to fifteen carbon atoms and which is saturated or unsaturated and attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. For purposes of this invention a bridged ring system is a system wherein two non adjacent ring atoms thereof are connected through an atom or a group of atoms. Monocyclic cycloalkyl radicals include non bridged cycloalkyl radicals for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Polycyclic radicals include fused spiro or bridged cycloalkyl radicals for example Cradicals such as adamantanyl bridged and decalinyl fused and Cradicals such as bicyclo 3.2.0 heptanyl fused norbornanyl and norbornenyl bridged as well as substituted polycyclic radicals for example substituted Cradicals such as 7 7 dimethylbicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl bridged and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically in the specification cycloalkyl radicals defined herein may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl oxo thioxo cyano nitro optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted aralkenyl optionally substituted aralkynyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkenyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkynyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkenyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkynyl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkenyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkynyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 R S O OR where t is 1 or 2 R S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heteroaryl and optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or two R s together with the common nitrogen to which they are both attached may optionally form an optionally substituted N heterocyclyl or an optionally substituted N heteroaryl and each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain.

 Cycloalkylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. The alkylene chain and the cycloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above.

 Cycloalkylalkenyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. The alkenylene chain and the cycloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above.

 Cycloalkylalkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkynylene radical as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. The alkynylene chain and the cycloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above.

 Haloalkyl refers to an alkyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above for example trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl trichloromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1 fluoromethyl 2 fluoroethyl 3 bromo 2 fluoropropyl 1 bromomethyl 2 bromoethyl and the like. The alkyl part of the haloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkyl radical.

 Haloalkenyl refers to an alkenyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above. The alkenyl part of the haloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenyl radical.

 Haloalkynyl refers to an alkynyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above. The alkynyl part of the haloalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynyl radical.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a stable 3 to 18 membered non aromatic ring radical which comprises one to twelve carbon atoms and from one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the heterocyclyl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include spiro or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized and the heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such heterocyclyl radicals include but are not limited to dioxolanyl 1 4 diazepanyl decahydroisoquinolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl octahydroindolyl octahydroisoindolyl octahydro 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridinyl octahydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridinyl octahydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridinyl octahydro 1H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridinyl octahydropyrrolo 3 4 c pyrrolyl octahydro 1H pyrido 1 2 a pyrazinyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl quinuclidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl thienyl 1 3 dithianyl trithianyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl 1 oxo thiomorpholinyl 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl azetidinyl octahydropyrrolo 3 4 c pyrrolyl octahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrolyl decahydroprazino 1 2 a azepinyl azepanyl azabicyclo 3.2.1 octyl and 2 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonanyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term optionally substituted heterocyclyl is meant to include heterocyclyl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl oxo thioxo cyano nitro optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted aralkenyl optionally substituted aralkynyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkenyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkynyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkenyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkynyl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkenyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkynyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 R S O OR where t is 1 or 2 R S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heteroaryl and optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or two R s together with the common nitrogen to which they are both attached may optionally form an optionally substituted N heterocyclyl or an optionally substituted N heteroaryl and each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain.

 N Heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical. An N heterocyclyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for heterocyclyl radicals.

 Heterocyclylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. The alkylene chain of the heterocyclylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkylene chain. The heterocyclyl part of the heterocyclylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heterocyclyl radical.

 Heterocyclylalkenyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkenylene chain at the nitrogen atom. The alkenylene chain of the heterocyclylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenylene chain. The heterocyclyl part of the heterocyclylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heterocyclyl radical.

 Heterocyclylalkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkynylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkynyl radical at the nitrogen atom. The alkynylene chain part of the heterocyclylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain. The heterocyclyl part of the heterocyclylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heterocyclyl radical.

 Heteroaryl refers to a 5 to 14 membered ring system radical comprising hydrogen atoms one to thirteen carbon atoms one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and at least one aromatic ring. A heteroaryl radical is commonly but not necessarily attached to the parent molecule via an aromatic ring of the heteroaryl radical. For purposes of this invention the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic ring system which may include spiro ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. For purposes of this invention the aromatic ring of the heteroaryl radical need not contain a heteroatom as long as one ring of the heteroaryl radical contains a heteroatom. For example 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl is considered a heteroaryl for the purposes of this invention. For purposes of this invention a heteroaryl radical as defined herein can not contain rings having more than 7 members and cannot contain rings wherein two non adjacent ring atoms thereof are connected through an atom or a group of atoms i.e. a bridged ring system . Examples of heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to azepinyl acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzo d imidazolyl benzindolyl 1 3 benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzo b 1 4 dioxepinyl benzo b 1 4 oxazinyl 1 4 benzodioxanyl benzonaphthofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxinyl benzopyranyl benzopyranonyl benzofuranyl benzofuranonyl benzothienyl benzothiophenyl benzothieno 3 2 d pyrimidinyl benzotriazolyl benzo 4 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl carbazolyl chromeno 4 3 c pyridazinyl cinnolinyl cyclopenta d pyrimidinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta 4 5 thieno 2 3 d pyrimidinyl 5 6 dihydrobenzo h quinazolinyl 5 6 dihydrobenzo h cinnolinyl 7 8 dihydro 5 H spiro 1 3 dioxolane 2 6 quinoline 3 yl 6 7 dihydro 5H benzo 6 7 cyclohepta 1 2 c pyridazinyl dibenzofuranyl dibenzothiophenyl furanyl furanonyl furo 3 2 c pyridinyl furopyrimidinyl furopyridazinyl furopyrazinyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl imidazopyrimidinyl imidazopyridazinyl imidazopyrazinyl indazolyl indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl isoquinolinyl isoquinolyl indolizinyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl naphthyridinonyl oxadiazolyl 2 oxoazepinyl oxazolyl oxiranyl 5 6 6a 7 8 9 10 10a octahydrobenzo h quinazolinyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrrolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl phenanthridinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidinyl pyridinyl pyridyl pyrido 3 2 d pyrimidinyl pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidinyl pyrido 4 3 c pyridazinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyridazyl pyrrolyl pyrrolopyrimidinyl pyrrolopyridazinyl pyrrolopyrazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl quinolinyl quinuclidinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroquinazolinyl 2 3 4 5 tetrahydrobenzo b oxepinyl 3 4 dihydro 2H benzo b 1 4 dioxepinyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydro 5H cyclohepta b pyridinyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydro 5H pyrido 3 2 c azepinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydrobenzo 4 5 thieno 2 3 d pyrimidinyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydro 5H cyclohepta 4 5 thieno 2 3 d pyrimidinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 4 5 c pyridazinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolin 7 yl triazinyl thieno 2 3 d pyrimidinyl thienopyrimidinyl e.g. thieno 3 2 d pyrimidinyl or thieno 2 3 d pyrimidinyl thieno 2 3 c pyridinyl thienopyridazinyl thienopyrazinyl and thiophenyl thienyl . Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term optionally substituted heteroaryl is meant to include heteroaryl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl halo haloalkyl haloalkenyl haloalkynyl oxo thioxo cyano nitro optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted aralkenyl optionally substituted aralkynyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkenyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkynyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkenyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkynyl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkenyl optionally substituted heteroarylalkynyl R OR R OC O R R N R R C O R R C O OR R C O N R R N R C O OR R N R C O R R N R S O R where t is 1 or 2 R S O OR where t is 1 or 2 R S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 and R S O N R where t is 1 or 2 where each Ris independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted cycloalkylalkyl optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted aralkyl optionally substituted heterocyclyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted heteroaryl and optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or two R s together with the common nitrogen to which they are both attached may optionally form an optionally substituted N heterocyclyl or an optionally substituted N heteroaryl and each Ris independently a direct bond or a straight or branched alkylene or alkenylene chain.

 N Heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. An N heteroaryl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for heteroaryl radicals.

 Heteroarylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. The heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heteroaryl. The alkylene chain part of the heteroarylalkyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkylene chain.

 Heteroarylalkenyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkenylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. The heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heteroaryl. The alkenylene chain part of the heteroarylalkenyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkenylene chain.

 Heteroarylalkynyl refers to a radical of the formula RR where Ris an alkynylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. The heteroaryl part of the heteroarylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for a heteroaryl. The alkynylene chain part of the heteroarylalkynyl radical may be optionally substituted as defined above for an alkynylene chain.

 Heteroarylene refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above which forms part of a chain in a compound of the invention. The heteroarylene is divalent in that it is attached to the rest of the molecule through two carbons in the heteroarylene through a nitrogen and a carbon in the heteroarylene or through two nitrogens in the heteroarylene. The heteroarylene may be optionally substituted as set forth above for heteroaryl radicals. An example of an heteroarylene is the following group where the line represents the attachment points of the heteroarylene chain to the rest of the molecule 

Certain chemical groups named herein may be preceded by a shorthand notation indicating the total number of carbon atoms that are to be found in the indicated chemical group. For example C Calkyl describes an alkyl group as defined below having a total of 7 to 12 carbon atoms and C Ccycloalkylalkyl describes a cycloalkylalkyl group as defined below having a total of 4 to 12 carbon atoms. The total number of carbons in the shorthand notation does not include carbons that may exist in substituents of the group described.

 Stable compound and stable structure are meant to indicate a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.

 Mammal includes humans and domestic animals such as cats dogs swine cattle sheep goats horses rabbits and the like. Preferably for purposes of this invention the mammal is a human.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event of circumstances may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted aryl means that the aryl radical may or may not be substituted and that the description includes both substituted aryl radicals and aryl radicals having no substitution. When a functional group is described as optionally substituted and in turn substitutents on the functional group are also optionally substituted and so on for the purposes of this invention such iterations are limited to five.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient includes without limitation any adjuvant carrier excipient glidant sweetening agent diluent preservative dye colorant flavor enhancer surfactant wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent stabilizer isotonic agent solvent or emulsifier which has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for use in humans or domestic animals.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts that retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and are formed with inorganic acids such as but not limited to hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as but not limited to acetic acid 2 2 dichloroacetic acid adipic acid alginic acid ascorbic acid aspartic acid benzenesulfonic acid benzoic acid 4 acetamidobenzoic acid camphoric acid camphor 10 sulfonic acid capric acid caproic acid caprylic acid carbonic acid cinnamic acid citric acid cyclamic acid dodecylsulfonic acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid formic acid fumaric acid galactaric acid gentisic acid glucoheptonic acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid glutamic acid glutaric acid 2 oxo glutaric acid glycerophosphoric acid glycolic acid hippuric acid isobutyric acid lactic acid lactobionic acid lauric acid maleic acid malic acid malonic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid mucic acid naphthalene 1 5 disulfonic acid naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid 1 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid nicotinic acid oleic acid orotic acid oxalic acid palmitic acid pamoic acid propionic acid pyroglutamic acid pyruvic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid sebacic acid stearic acid succinic acid tartaric acid thiocyanic acid p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid undecylenic acid and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt refers to those salts that retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids and are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from addition of an inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from inorganic bases include but are not limited to the sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum salts and the like. Preferred inorganic salts are the ammonium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include but are not limited to salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as ammonia isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine diethanolamine ethanolamine 2 dimethylaminoethanol 2 diethylaminoethanol dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine benethamine benzathine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine triethanolamine tromethamine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine polyamine resins and the like. Particularly preferred organic bases are isopropylamine diethylamine ethanolamine trimethylamine dicyclohexylamine choline and caffeine.

A pharmaceutical composition refers to a formulation of a compound of the invention and a medium generally accepted in the art for the delivery of the biologically active compound to mammals for example humans. Such a medium includes all pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients therefor.

 Therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of a compound of the invention which when administered to a mammal preferably a human is sufficient to effect treatment as defined below of cancer diabetes or other disease to be treated in the mammal preferably a human. The amount of a compound of the invention which constitutes a therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the cancer diabetes or other disease to be treated and its severity and the age of the mammal to be treated but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.

 Treating or treatment as used herein covers the treatment of a disease e.g. a cancer diabetes or other disease as described herein to be treated in a mammal preferably a human having the disease and includes 

As used herein the terms disease and condition may be used interchangeably or may be different in that the particular malady or condition may not have a known causative agent so that etiology has not yet been worked out and it is therefore not yet recognized as a disease but only as an undesirable condition or syndrome wherein a more or less specific set of symptoms have been identified by clinicians.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts may contain one or more asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids. The present invention is meant to include all such possible stereoisomers as well as their racemic and optically pure forms. Optically active and R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques such as HPLC using a chiral column. When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

A stereoisomer refers to a compound made up of the same atoms bonded by the same bonds but having different three dimensional structures which are not interchangeable. The present invention contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and includes enantiomers which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules are nonsuperimposeable mirror images of one another as well as diastereomers.

The chemical naming protocol and structure diagrams used herein are a modified form of the I.U.P.A.C. nomenclature system wherein the compounds of the invention are named herein as derivatives of the central core structure i.e. the triazole structure. For complex chemical names employed herein a substituent group is named before the group to which it attaches. For example cyclopropylethyl comprises an ethyl backbone with cyclopropyl substituent. In chemical structure diagrams all bonds are identified except for some carbon atoms which are assumed to be bonded to sufficient hydrogen atoms to complete the valency.

For example a compound of formula I wherein R R R and Ris hydrogen and Ris C H C H CH CH i.e. a compound of the following formula I 1 

Of the various aspects of the invention as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention certain embodiments are preferred.

In one aspect this invention is directed to a method of treating a cancer in a mammal wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I 

Accordingly in one embodiment this invention is directed to a method of treating a cancer in a mammal wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I 

In one embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein each Ris a direct bond.

In another embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein each Ris an optionally substituted arylene.

In another embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein each Ris an optionally substituted heteroarylene.

In another embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein each Ris an optionally substituted heteroarylene chain

In one embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of C R C R C R CH C R C R C R CH C R C R C R C R CH C R C R C R C R CH C R C R C R C R C R CHand C R C R C R C R C R CH.

In one embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of C H C H C R CH C H C H C R CH C R C H C H C R CH C R C H C H C R CH C H C H C H C H C R CH C H C H C H C H C R CH C H C CH C R CH C H C CH C R CH C R C H C CH C R CH C R C H C CH C R CH C H C CH C H C H C R CHand C H C CH C H C H C R CH.

In one embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above wherein 

In one embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above selected from the group consisting of 

Preferably the compound of formula I 1 the compound of formula I 2a the compound of formula 1 2b and the compound of formula I 3 have the following stereochemistry 

Even more preferably the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I 1a as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In one embodiment of this aspect the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I as set forth above is selected from the group consisting of 

Preferably the compound of formula I 4 the compound of formula I 5 and the compound of formula I 6 have the following stereochemistry 

Even more preferably the compound of formula I is a compound of formula I 4a as an isolated stereoisomer or mixture thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Further embodiments of the invention include methods for the treatment of a variety of cancers and other diseases by administering the compounds of the invention such as the compounds of formula I any one or more of I 1 1 6 as described herein. In this regard a cancer to be treated may be associated with activation of AKT or PIkinase or may be associated with a deficiency of PTEN activity. In a further embodiment the cancer to be treated may be associated with activation of the Wnt signaling pathway. A variety of cancers are suitably treated using the methods and compounds of the invention including but not limited to gastrointestinal cancers colon cancer breast cancer neuroblastoma leukemia and brain tumors.

In a further embodiment the compounds of the invention alter the activity of a component of the AKT PIkinase signaling pathway. In this regard in certain embodiments the compounds of the invention inhibit the activity of AKT. In particular in one embodiment the compounds of the invention inhibit the cytosolic to membrane translocation of AKT. In another embodiment the compounds activate the PTEN phosphatase. In a further embodiment of the invention the compounds of the invention act as competitive inhibitors of sphingosine kinase.

Free sphingoid bases isolated from e.g. are comprised largely of C and C sphingosine and dihydrosphingosine 38 . As disclosed herein a second family of sphingolipids has been identified based on their differential separation in high performance liquid chromatography HPLC compared to previously known sphingolipids. The herein disclosed sphingadiene sphingolipids contain a long chain base LCB of either 14 or 16 carbons with conjugated double bonds at C4 and C6. These C sphingadienes and their corresponding C ceramides decrease e.g. reduce in a statistically significant manner cell proliferation and increase e.g. induce in a statistically significant manner apoptosis in cells and also likely contribute to tissue degeneration in mutants that accumulate these compounds due to effects on key conserved signaling pathways.

As a brief background sphingadienes have been identified in numerous biological species. They are commonly found in plants and plant derived dietary constituents such as soy and legumes where the long chain base LCB is desaturated at C4 and C8 39 . They have also been detected as rare endogenous lipids in mammalian and human brain aorta and plasma 40 43 . The presence of sphingolipids containing LCBs that are desaturated at C4 and C6 has previously been reported in insect species other than indicating that these structures may be conserved among dipteran insects. A study of sphingomyelins from the tobacco hornworm revealed the presence of the desaturated LCB in sphingomyelin ceramide phosphoethanolamine and ceramide 44 . Moreover a ceramide compound purified from larvae of the silk mouth was shown to contain a desaturated LCB 45 .

The sphingadienes disclosed herein are medium chain C14 sphingolipids containing two double bonds. Ceramide compounds containing two double bonds and an N acyl chain were found previously to be more cytotoxic to breast cancer cells than ceramides with a single double bond in the long chain base LCB 46 . The sphingadienes disclosed herein are contemplated for colon cancer chemotherapy because according to non limiting theory 1 the presence of two double bonds in their LCB may increase their cytotoxicity relative to other similar long chain bases 2 the shorter chain length of their LCB compared with mammalian sphingoid bases makes them more water soluble thereby facilitating their delivery as drugs 3 the shorter chain length of their LCB also makes them more cell permeable than mammalian and plant sphingoid bases 4 they are not acylated i.e. they are not ceramides and are therefore more readily taken up by colonic epithelial cells compared to ceramides which must first be converted to sphingoid bases by intestinal brush border enzymes prior to cellular uptake 5 unlike mammalian sphingoid bases the medium chain sphingadienes accumulate in colon cancer cells due to inefficient conversion to sphingosine 1 phosphate S1P and subsequent poor clearance of the phosphorylated compound by S1P lyase and 6 they promote cytotoxicity in colon cancer cells by inhibiting protein synthesis through the AKT signaling pathway which is upregulated in many cancers of colonic and other origins making it likely that sphingadiene effects will be more pronounced in cancer cells than in normal cells 47 50 .

The sphingadiene compounds of certain presently disclosed invention embodiments are useful for the treatment of cancer in particular cancers associated with altered e.g. increased or decreased in a statistically significant manner activity of any one or more components of the AKT phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3 kinase signaling pathway. In this regard the compounds described herein can be used for the treatment of colon cancer breast cancer neuroblastoma leukemia brain tumors gastrointestinal cancers and any cancer demonstrating upregulation of AKT or PI3 kinase or deficiency of PTEN phosphatase and tensin homolog activity. Cancers associated with altered activity of one or more components of the AKT PI3 kinase signaling pathway that may be treated with the compounds described herein also include but are not limited to colo rectal cancer breast cancer prostate cancer brain cancer melanoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma Hodgkin s disease leukemias plasmocytomas sarcomas adenomas gliomas thymomas kidney cancer renal cell carcinoma uterine cancer pancreatic cancer esophageal cancer lung cancer ovarian cancer cervical cancer testicular cancer gastric cancer multiple myeloma hepatoma acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL acute myelogenous leukemia AML chronic myelogenous leukemia CML and chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL or other cancers. The sphingadiene compounds of the present invention embodiments may be used to inhibit the development of cancer metastasis or both development of cancer and metastasis in an individual afflicted with a cancer.

The presently disclosed sphingadiene compounds may also be used for the treatment of diabetes and for the treatment of infections with intracellular bacteria such as but not limited to spp spp spp spp and others such as those described in Zinsser Microbiology 20th Edition 1992 Appleton Lange Norwalk Conn.

As noted above altered activity of components of the Akt PI3 kinase pathway provides a method for inhibiting the growth i.e. proliferation of a cancer cell either in culture or in a mammal afflicted with cancer. In vivo such alteration or modulation may also be used to inhibit cancer development progression and or metastasis. Accordingly one or more of the compounds as provided herein may be administered as described above to a mammal in need of anti cancer therapy. Patients that may benefit from administration of a modulating agent are those afflicted with cancer. Such patients may be identified based on standard criteria that are well known in the art.

As used herein AKT or AKT protein means a mammalian protein and in particular a human protein that is a member of the set of PKBa Akt1 PKBb Akt2 PKBg Akt3 PKBg 1 and proteins having substantially identical amino acid sequences thereof and that has protein kinase activity whenever phoshorylated by a PI3K protein. In one embodiment an Akt protein has kinase activity whenever either or both of a tyrosine at a location number from 305 to 310 is phosphorylated and a serine at location number from 470 to 475 is phosphorylated. Akt proteins are described under various NCBI accession numbers including NP005154 SEQ ID NO 1 and in Nicholson et al. 2002 14 381 395 Kandel et al. 1999 253 210 229 and like references.

 Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase protein or equivalently a PI3K protein or PI3 kinase means a mammalian in particular a human intracellular protein of the set of proteins described under NCBI accession numbers NP852664 NP852556 and NP852665 provided in SEQ ID NOs 2 3 and 4 respectively and proteins having amino acid sequences substantially identical thereto and that retain substantially the same activity.

 PTEN or PTEN protein phosphatase and tensin homology means a mammalian protein in particular a human protein such as described in published sequences for example the sequence information set forth in GenBank accession number U93051 provided herein as SEQ ID NO 5 and proteins having amino acid sequences substantially identical thereto and that retain substantially the same activity.

 Substantially identical in reference to proteins or amino acid sequences of proteins in a family of related proteins that are being compared means either that one protein has an amino acid sequence that is at least fifty percent identical to the other protein or that one protein is an isoform or splice variant of the same gene as the other protein. Generally proteins having substantially identical amino acid sequences retain substantially the same activity e.g. kinase activity phosphatase activity and the like or in certain embodiments may have increased activity as compared to the native protein sequence. In one embodiment substantially identical means one protein or amino acid sequence thereof is at least 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 identical to the other protein or amino acid sequence thereof.

The sphingosine compounds described herein alter e.g. increase or decrease in a statistically significant manner the activity of one or more components of the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway.

Any component of the AKT PI3 kinase signaling pathway may be regarded as within the context of the present invention for example with respect to embodiments that relate to altering e.g. increasing or decreasing in a statistically significant manner the activity of one or more AKT PI3 kinase signalling pathway components. As such components of the AKT PI3 kinase signaling pathway may include but are not limited to Akt PI3 kinase phosphatidylinositol phosphates such as PIP receptor tyrosine kinase RTK PTEN pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 PDK1 mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR p27 murine double minute Mdm2 IkB kinase IKK Caspase 9 Forkhead Bad glycogen synthase kinase 3 GSK3 Raf1 Yes associated protein YAP p53 WNK1 p21 I B p50 p65 and NF B for which activity assays have been described as will be known to those familiar with the art see for example Brazil et al. 2004 29 233 242 Brazil et al. 2002 111 293 303 Cantley 2002 296 1655 1657 Shiojima et al. 2002 90 1243 1250 Vivanco et al. 2002 2 489 501 Woodgett 2005 17 150 157 .

The sphingosine compounds described herein also alter e.g. increase or decrease in a statistically significant manner the activity of one or more components of the Wnt signaling pathway. Any component of the Wnt signaling pathway may be regarded as within the context of the present invention for example with respect to embodiments that relate to altering e.g. increasing or decreasing in a statistically significant manner the activity of one or more Wnt signalling pathway components. As such components of the Wnt signaling pathway may include but are not limited to in particular those components of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway such as Wnt Frizzled catenin Disheveled GSK3 Axin APC TrCP WTX CK1 naked and downstream genes that may be affected by the activity of any of these proteins.

Altered activity comprises any statistically significant change e.g. increase or decrease in the activity of one or more components of the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway and or the Wnt signaling pathway when an isolated component or a host cell or an animal comprising a component is contacted with the compound as compared to an isolated component a host cell or animal comprising a component that is not contacted with the compound. As such in one embodiment modulation or alteration of activity comprises an altered activity level that is a statistically significant decrease or increase in enzymatic activity of any enzyme involved in the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway or the Wnt signaling pathway. Numerous methods for detecting and measuring enzymatic activity such as phosphatase and kinase activity are known in the art and can be used in the context of the present invention see e.g. John Wiley Sons Inc. Boston Mass. .

In one embodiment of the invention the altered activity of one or more components of the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway comprises a decrease in the activity of Akt. In one particular embodiment this decrease in activity results from inhibition of the cytosolic to membrane translocation of the AKT protein.

In another embodiment the alteration in activity of one or more components of the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway comprises the activation of increase in activity of the PTEN phosphatase.

In one embodiment the alteration in activity of one or more components of the Wnt signaling pathway comprises translocation of catenin from the nucleus to the cytoplasm thereby negatively regulating the Wnt signaling pathway.

In certain embodiments modulation of a component involved in the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway or the Wnt signaling pathway comprises an increase or decrease in one or more of cellular proliferation apoptosis autophagy angiogenesis drug resistance and cell motility. A variety of assays to determine these and related cellular functions are known in the art including those described in or both published by John Wiley Sons Inc. Boston Mass.

Signaling resulting from the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway and the Wnt signaling pathway contributes to specific pathways for biological signal transduction including those associated with cell division cell survival apoptosis proliferation and differentiation. Biological signal transduction pathways or inducible signaling pathways in the context of the present invention include transient or stable associations or interactions among molecular components involved in the control of these and similar processes in cells. Depending on the particular aspect of the pathway of interest an appropriate parameter for determining induction or inhibition of such pathway may be selected. There is available a variety of well known methodologies for quantifying cellular proliferation including for example incorporation of tritiated thymidine into cellular DNA monitoring of detectable e.g. fluorimetric or colorimetric indicators of cellular respiratory activity or cell counting or the like. Similarly in the cell biology arts there are known multiple techniques for assessing cell survival e.g. vital dyes metabolic indicators etc. for determining apoptosis e.g. annexin V binding DNA fragmentation assays caspase activation etc. and for determining autophagy e.g. tracking the conversion of LC3 1 to LC3 2 as a marker for autophagic activity .

In certain embodiments signaling pathways will be associated with particular cellular phenotypes for example specific induction of gene expression e.g. detectable as transcription or translation products or by bioassays of such products or as nuclear localization of cytoplasmic factors altered e.g. statistically significant increases or decreases levels of intracellular mediators e.g. activated kinases or phosphatases altered levels of cyclic nucleotides or of physiologically active ionic species lipid intermediates phosphorylated or dephosphorylated docking proteins scaffold proteins chaperone proteins etc. or altered cellular morphology and the like such that cellular responsiveness to a particular stimulus as provided herein can be readily identified to determine whether a particular cell responds to a particular stimulus such as by contact with the compounds described herein. For example signaling kinase and phosphatase activity may be determined using any of a variety of assays known in the art or commercially available assay kits such as those available from Reaction Biology Corp. Malvern Pa. and Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass.

Specifically catenin expression and localization can be determined by immunoblotting cytosolic and nuclear extracts with a monoclonal antibody that recognizes catenin and IF and confocal microscopy essentially as described Schmelz et al. Cancer Res 61 18 6723 6729 2001. . Nuclei can be isolated using the Nuclear Extract Kit Active Motif . The effect of the sphingosine compounds described herein on catenin TCF dependent gene expression may be assessed by transfecting cells with a TCF responsive reporter system. Cells are transfected with the TOPflash TCF reporter plasmid Upstate now part of Millipore Billrica Mass. which contains three copies of the TCF binding site upstream of a TK minimal promoter and luciferase open reading frame. The FOPflash vector which contains mutated TCF binding sites can serve as a negative control. Transfections and luciferase assays may be performed as described Oskouian et al. J Biol Chem 280 18 18403 18410 2005 . Antibodies against components of the signaling pathways described herein such as PIK AKT 4EBP and PTEN antibodies are commercially available for instance from Cell Signaling Technologies Danvers Mass. Fluorescent microscopy can also be used for detecting components of the signaling and sphingolipid pathways described herein. Fluorescent microscopy may be performed using commercially available equipment such as a Zeiss Axiovert 25 equipped with a Diagnostic spot digital camera.

In certain embodiments alteration of the activity of one or more components of the Akt PI3 kinase signaling pathway and or the Wnt signaling pathway comprises an altered level e.g. a statistically significant decrease or increase relative to appropriate controls in gene expression of or enzyme activity level of and or phosphorylation state of a downstream target of the pathway. Numerous methods for detecting polypeptide and or polynucleotide levels e.g. gene expression enzyme activity e.g. kinase phosphatase protease etc. and phosphorylation status are known in the art and are useful in the context of the instant invention. Illustrative methods are described in Ausubel et al. 1993 Greene Publ. Assoc. Inc. John Wiley Sons Inc. Boston Mass. Sambrook et al. 1989 Second Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Plainview N.Y. Maniatis et al. 1982 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Plainview N.Y. and elsewhere.

According to certain embodiments contemplated herein the compounds of the present invention also inhibit sphingosine kinase. Sphingosine kinase SK is a component of the sphingolipid metabolic pathway and functions primarily to convert phosphorylate sphingosine to sphingosine 1 phosphate S1P . S1P then acts as the trigger to the ensuing signalling processes that ultimately activate various pro survival mechanisms in a cell. Importantly sphingosine kinase activity is known to be upregulated in many cancers. SK proteins are known in the art and are described under various NCBI accession numbers. A representative human SK polypeptide sequence is provided in SEQ ID NO 6.

In certain embodiments inhibition of sphingosine kinase may have effects on other components of the sphingolipid metabolic pathway. Thus in certain embodiments the compounds of the present invention modulate one or more components of this pathway. Any component of the sphingolipid metabolic and or signaling pathway may be regarded as within the context of the present invention. As such components of the sphingolipid metabolic and or signaling pathway include but are not limited to enzymes involved in these pathways and the polynucleotides encoding said enzymes such as sphingosine 1 phosphate lyase SPL SK ceramidase S1 PP serine palmitoyltransferase SPT 3 ketodihydrosphingosine reductase ceramide synthase dihydroceramide desaturase sphingosine desaturase ceramide kinase phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase CDP ethanolamine phosphotransferase acid sphingomyelinase sphingomyelin synthase neutral sphingomyelinase S1P phosphatase and glucosylceramide synthase. Components of the sphingolipid metabolic and or signaling pathway further include intracellular or cell surface receptors and the polynucleotides encoding said receptors such as the G protein coupled S1P receptors formerly called EDG receptors e.g. EDG1 EDG3 EDG5 EDGE EDG8 and CFTR.

Generally sphingolipid metabolism can be viewed as all synthetic and catabolic pathways involving any sphingolipid or sphingolipid intermediate as described herein. Sphingolipid signaling pathways are known in the art and can generally be viewed herein as any signaling pathway activated by a sphingolipid such as the signaling pathways of sphingosine 1 phosphate such as those described in Pyne S. and Pyne N. J. 2000 349 385 402 and Pyne S. and Pyne N. J. 2000 88 115 131. However the skilled artisan would recognize that other sphingolipid signaling pathways fall within the scope of the present invention and are contemplated herein.

The skilled artisan would readily appreciate that there any many assays known in the art for measuring inhibition of SK activity. Within certain embodiments various in vitro assay for SK activity may be performed to detect inhibition of SK. Illustrative assays are described for example by Caligan et al. 2000 281 36 44 Skrzypek M. et al. 1999 181 1134 1140 Kim S. et al. 2000 156 1519 1529 Lanterman M. and Saba J. 1998 332 525 531. In further embodiments inhibition of SK can be determined using gene expression analysis by standard molecular biological techniques or by detection of the effects of inhibition of SK on other components of the sphingolipid metabolic pathway e.g. measuring levels of S1P.

Administration of the compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts in pure form or in an appropriate pharmaceutical composition can be carried out via any of the accepted modes of administration of agents for serving similar utilities. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be prepared by combining a compound of the invention with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient and may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants gels microspheres and aerosols. In addition other pharmaceutically active ingredients including other anti cancer agents and or suitable excipients such as salts buffers and stabilizers may but need not be present within the composition.

Administration may be achieved by a variety of different routes including oral parenteral nasal intravenous intradermal subcutaneous or topical. Preferred modes of administration depend upon the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented. An amount that following administration inhibits prevents or delays the progression and or metastasis of a cancer is considered effective.

In certain embodiments the amount administered is sufficient to result in regression as indicated by 50 mass or by scan dimensions. The precise dosage and duration of treatment is a function of the disease being treated and may be determined empirically using known testing protocols or by testing the compositions in model systems known in the art and extrapolating therefrom. Controlled clinical trials may also be performed. Dosages may also vary with the severity of the condition to be alleviated. A pharmaceutical composition is generally formulated and administered to exert a therapeutically useful effect while minimizing undesirable side effects. The composition may be administered one time or may be divided into a number of smaller doses to be administered at intervals of time. For any particular subject specific dosage regimens may be adjusted over time according to the individual need.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered alone or in combination with other known cancer treatments such as radiation therapy chemotherapy transplantation immunotherapy hormone therapy photodynamic therapy etc. The compounds may also be administered in combination with antibiotics used to treat bacterial infections in particular intracellular bacterial infections.

Typical routes of administering these and related pharmaceutical compositions thus include without limitation oral topical transdermal inhalation parenteral sublingual buccal rectal vaginal and intranasal. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions that will be administered to a subject or patient take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet may be a single dosage unit and a container of a compound of the invention in aerosol form may hold a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art for example see 20th Edition Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 2000 . The composition to be administered will in any event contain a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for treatment of a disease or condition of interest in accordance with the teachings of this invention.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be in the form of a solid or liquid. In one aspect the carrier s are particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s may be liquid with the compositions being for example an oral oil injectable liquid or an aerosol which is useful in for example inhalatory administration.

When intended for oral administration the pharmaceutical composition is preferably in either solid or liquid form where semi solid semi liquid suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.

As a solid composition for oral administration the pharmaceutical composition may be formulated into a powder granule compressed tablet pill capsule chewing gum wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition will typically contain one or more inert diluents or edible carriers. In addition one or more of the following may be present binders such as carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin excipients such as starch lactose or dextrins disintegrating agents such as alginic acid sodium alginate Primogel corn starch and the like lubricants such as magnesium stearate or Sterotex glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring and a coloring agent.

When the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a capsule for example a gelatin capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.

The pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of a liquid for example an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be for oral administration or for delivery by injection as two examples. When intended for oral administration preferred composition contain in addition to the present compounds one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.

The liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the invention whether they be solutions suspensions or other like form may include one or more of the following adjuvants sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. Physiological saline is a preferred adjuvant. An injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A liquid pharmaceutical composition of the invention intended for either parenteral or oral administration should contain an amount of a compound of the invention such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically this amount is at least 0.01 of a compound of the invention in the composition. When intended for oral administration this amount may be varied to be between 0.1 and about 70 of the weight of the composition. Preferred oral pharmaceutical compositions contain between about 4 and about 75 of the compound of the invention. Preferred pharmaceutical compositions and preparations according to the present invention are prepared so that a parenteral dosage unit contains between 0.01 to 10 by weight of the compound prior to dilution of the invention.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be intended for topical administration in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a solution emulsion ointment or gel base. The base for example may comprise one or more of the following petrolatum lanolin polyethylene glycols bee wax mineral oil diluents such as water and alcohol and emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical composition for topical administration. If intended for transdermal administration the composition may include a transdermal patch or iontophoresis device. Topical formulations may contain a concentration of the compound of the invention from about 0.1 to about 10 w v weight per unit volume .

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be intended for rectal administration in the form for example of a suppository which will melt in the rectum and release the drug. The composition for rectal administration may contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases include without limitation lanolin cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may include various materials which modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For example the composition may include materials that form a coating shell around the active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert and may be selected from for example sugar shellac and other enteric coating agents. Alternatively the active ingredients may be encased in a gelatin capsule.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention in solid or liquid form may include an agent that binds to the compound of the invention and thereby assists in the delivery of the compound. Suitable agents that may act in this capacity include a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody a protein or a liposome.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may consist of dosage units that can be administered as an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages. Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of the invention may be delivered in single phase bi phasic or tri phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient s . Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary container activators valves subcontainers and the like which together may form a kit. One of ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by methodology well known in the pharmaceutical art. For example a pharmaceutical composition intended to be administered by injection can be prepared by combining a compound of the invention with sterile distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate the formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are compounds that non covalently interact with the compound of the invention so as to facilitate dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in the aqueous delivery system.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are administered in a therapeutically effective amount which will vary depending upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the metabolic stability and length of action of the compound the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the mode and time of administration the rate of excretion the drug combination the severity of the particular disorder or condition and the subject undergoing therapy. Generally a therapeutically effective daily dose is for a 70 kg mammal from about 0.001 mg kg i.e. 0.07 mg to about 100 mg kg i.e. 7.0 g preferably a therapeutically effective dose is for a 70 kg mammal from about 0.01 mg kg i.e. 0.7 mg to about 50 mg kg i.e. 3.5 g more preferably a therapeutically effective dose is for a 70 kg mammal from about 1 mg kg i.e. 70 mg to about 25 mg kg i.e. 1.75 g .

Compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may also be administered simultaneously with prior to or after administration of one or more other therapeutic agents. Such combination therapy includes administration of a single pharmaceutical dosage formulation which contains a compound of the invention and one or more additional active agents as well as administration of the compound of the invention and each active agent in its own separate pharmaceutical dosage formulation. For example a compound of the invention and the other active agent can be administered to the patient together in a single oral dosage composition such as a tablet or capsule or each agent administered in separate oral dosage formulations. Where separate dosage formulations are used the compounds of the invention and one or more additional active agents can be administered at essentially the same time i.e. concurrently or at separately staggered times i.e. sequentially combination therapy is understood to include all these regimens.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered to an individual afflicted with a disease as described herein such as a cancer diabetes or infection with an intracellular bacteria. For in vivo use for the treatment of human disease the compounds described herein are generally incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition prior to administration. A pharmaceutical composition comprises one or more of the compounds described herein in combination with a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient as described elsewhere herein. To prepare a pharmaceutical composition an effective amount of one or more of the compounds is mixed with any pharmaceutical carrier s or excipient known to those skilled in the art to be suitable for the particular mode of administration. A pharmaceutical carrier may be liquid semi liquid or solid. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal subcutaneous or topical application may include for example a sterile diluent such as water saline solution fixed oil polyethylene glycol glycerin propylene glycol or other synthetic solvent antimicrobial agents such as benzyl alcohol and methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid and sodium bisulfite and chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA buffers such as acetates citrates and phosphates . If administered intravenously suitable carriers include physiological saline or phosphate buffered saline PBS and solutions containing thickening and solubilizing agents such as glucose polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol and mixtures thereof.

The compounds described herein may be prepared with carriers that protect it against rapid elimination from the body such as time release formulations or coatings. Such carriers include controlled release formulations such as but not limited to implants and microencapsulated delivery systems and biodegradable biocompatible polymers such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid polyorthoesters polylactic acid and others known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The compounds of the invention may be prepared by standard organic chemistry synthesis or by recombinant technology.

With respect to standard organic chemistry synthesis the following Reaction Schemes illustrate methods to make compounds of this invention i.e. compounds of formula I 

It is understood that in the following Reaction Schemes combinations of substituents and or variables of the depicted formulae are permissible only if such contributions result in stable compounds.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the processes described below the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by suitable protecting groups. Such functional groups include hydroxy amino mercapto and carboxylic acid. Suitable protecting groups for hydroxy include trialkylsilyl or diarylalkylsilyl for example t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl or trimethylsilyl tetrahydropyranyl benzyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for amino amidino and guanidino include benzyl t butoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for mercapto include C O R where R is alkyl aryl or arylalkyl p methoxybenzyl trityl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for carboxylic acids include alkyl aryl or arylalkyl esters.

Protecting groups may be added or removed in accordance with standard techniques which are known to one of ordinary skill in the art and as described herein.

The use of protecting groups is described in detail in Greene T. W. and P. G. M. Wuts 1999 3rd Ed. Wiley. As one of skill in the art would appreciate the protecting group may also be a polymer resin such as a Wang resin Rink resin or a 2 chlorotrityl chloride resin.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art although such protected derivatives of compounds of this invention may not possess pharmacological activity as such they may be administered to a mammal and thereafter metabolized in the body to form compounds of the invention which are pharmacologically active. Such derivatives may therefore be described as prodrugs . All prodrugs of compounds of this invention are included within the scope of the invention.

It is understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to make the compounds of the invention by methods similar to the methods described herein or by methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art. It is also understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to make in a similar manner as described below other compounds of formula I not specifically illustrated below by using the appropriate starting components and modifying the parameters of the synthesis as needed. In general starting components may be obtained from sources such as Sigma Aldrich Lancaster Synthesis Inc. Maybridge Matrix Scientific TCI and Fluorochem USA etc. or synthesized according to sources known to those skilled in the art see for example Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 5th edition Wiley December 2000 or prepared as described in this invention.

Compounds of formula I 1a and 1 4a are compounds of formula I as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention and are prepared as set forth below in Reaction Scheme 1 where X is OSOMe OSOCHCH 4 bromo iodo or chloro Ris CH CH for compounds of formula I 1 or CH CH for compounds of formula I 4 Me is methyl Ph is phenyl and Pg is a nitrogen protecting group preferably t butoxycarbonyl 

Compounds of formula A can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art or by the method disclosed in Garner P. et al. 1991 70 18 27. Compounds of formula Ca can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art or by the method disclosed in Chun J. et al. 2002 67 2600 2605.

In general compounds of formula I 1a and I 4a are prepared as set forth above in Reaction Scheme 1 by first condensing a compound of formula A with 2 equivalents of the carbanion of methyl phenyl sulfoxide at 78 C. to give a compound of formula B using a procedure set forth in Chun J. et al. 2002 67 2600 2605. The alkylation of compound of formula B with a compound of formula Ca is performed in the presence of KCOin dimethylformamide DMF at ambient temperature using the procedure set forth in Chun J. et al. 2002 67 2600 2605 to form a compound of formula E via the intermediate of formula D .

Reduction of the compound of formula E with a high erythro stereoselectivity can be conducted using reducing agents such as NaBH CeClin methanol DIBAL H in tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of between about 15 C. to about 0 C. or NaBH CsCl to form the erythro intermediate of formula F . The use of other reducing agents such as Red Al or L Selectride permits the formation and subsequent isolation of the corresponding threo intermediate not shown . Acid hydrolysis of the oxazolidine ring and the protecting group on the amino group of compound of formula F under standard acid hydrolysis conditions such as 1 M HCl 70 C. affords the erythro compound of formula I 1a when Ris C H CHor the erythro compound of formula 1 4a when Ris C H CH.

Compounds of formula I 3a and compounds of formula I 6a as set forth above in the Embodiments section may be similarly prepared using compounds of formula Ca where Ris C H C H C H CH for compounds of formula I 3a or C H C H C H CH for compounds of formula I 6a . Such compounds of formula Ca can be prepared in a manner similar to that which is disclosed in Chun J. et al.

Compounds of formula I 2a1 and 1 5a are compounds of formula I as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention and are prepared as set forth below in Reaction Scheme 2 where X is OSOMe bromo iodo or chloro Ris C H CH for compounds of formula I 2a1 or C H CH for compounds of formula I 5a Cp is 5 cyclopentadienyl TMS is trimethylsilyl and Pg is a nitrogen protecting group preferably t butoxycarbonyl 

Compounds of formula Cb can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art or by the method disclosed in Chun J. et al. 2002 67 2600 2605. Compounds of formula K can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art or by the method disclosed in Garner P. et al. 1991 70 18 27.

In general compounds of formula I 2a1 and I 5a are prepared as set forth above in Reaction Scheme 2 by the methods disclosed in Murakami T. et al. 2006 61 9233 9241 wherein the compound of formula Cb is treated with lithiated 1 trimethylsilyl TMS 1 propyne to give a compound of formula G i.e. a 1 TMS alkyl 5 E en 1 yne. The TMS group in the compound of formula G is removed with BuNF in tetrahydrofuran to give the compound of formula H . The compound of formula H is then treated under standard hydrozirconation conditions of a terminal alkyne such as by treatment with zirconocene chloride hydride Schwartz reagent CpZr H Cl wherein Cp is 5 cyclopentadienyl Fernandez Megia E. 1999 1179 in tetrahydrofuran to form the vinyl zirconium organometallic compound of formula J . The compound of formula J is then treated with S Garner s aldehyde of formula K in the presence of an excess of zinc bromide in tetrahydrofuran at ambient temperature to form the compound of formula L with a high ratio of anti to syn diastereoselectivity.

Reduction of the compound of formula L can be performed using reducing agents such as NaBH CeClin tetrahydrofuran methanol or DIBAL H in tetrahydrofuran to afford the erythro intermediate of formula M or Red Al or L Selectride to afford the corresponding threo intermediate not shown . Acid hydrolysis of the compound of formula M under standard acid hydrolysis conditions affords the erythro compound of formula I 2a1 when Ris CH CHor the erythro compound of formula 1 5a when Ris CH CH.

Alternatively compounds of formula 1 2a1 and formula I 5a can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 3 wherein Ris as defined above for compounds of formula 1 2a1 and formula I 5a in Reaction Scheme 2 above and Pg is a nitrogen protecting group preferably t butoxycarbonyl 

Compounds of formula N and formula O can be prepared by methods known to one skilled in the art or by the methods disclosed herein.

In general compounds of formula I 2a1 and formula I 5a are prepared by the method set forth above in Reaction Scheme 3 by first reacting a beta keto phosphonate compound of formula N after treatment with a base such as KCOor CsCOor BaCOin aqueous 2 propanol at ambient temperature with an aldehyde of formula O under Horner Wadsworth Emmons HWE olefination reaction conditions to afford the compound of formula L . A stereoselective reduction of the ketone functionality of compound of formula L with the appropriate reducing agents such as sodium borohydride cesium III chloride in tetrahydrofuran methanol at a temperature of about 80 C. and then warming to about ambient temperature followed by acid hydrolysis of the N O isopropylidene acetal group furnishes the compounds of formula P which are then treated under standard deprotecting conditions to form the compound of formula I 2a1 and formula I 5a .

Compounds of formula N utilized above in Reaction Scheme 3 can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 3A 

Compounds of formula Na 2 2 dimethoxypropane and dimethyl methylphosphonate are commercially available or can be prepared by methods known to one skilled in the art.

In general compounds of formula N can be prepared by the method set forth above in Reaction Scheme 3A by first treating the compound of formula Na with 2 2 dimethoxypropane and para toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate in benzene to form the compound of formula A which after vacuum distillation is treated with dimethyl lithiomethylphosphonate formed in situ from dimethyl methyl phosphonate and n butyllithium at about 78 C. in a dry aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran to form the compound of formula N .

Compounds of formula O utilized above in Reaction Scheme 3 can be prepared according to the following Reaction Scheme 3B where Ris as described above for the compounds of formula 1 2a1 and formula I 5a 

Compounds of formula Oa vinyl magnesium bromide and 1 1 1 triethoxyethane triethyl orthoacetate are commercially available or can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art.

In general compounds of formula O can be prepared by first treating Oa with the Grignard reagent vinyl magnesium bromide in an aprotic solvent such as dry tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of about 80 C. and then warming to about 30 C. to form a compound of formula Ob . The compound of formula Ob is then treated with an excess of 1 1 1 triethoxyethane for about 7 hours at a temperature of about 140 C. to form a compound of formula Oc which is treated with a reducing agent preferably lithium aluminum hydride in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of between about 5 C. to about 30 C. to form a compound of formula Od which is then treated with N chlorosuccinimide at ambient temperature under oxidation conditions using 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine 1 oxyl Tempo and tetra n butylammonium bromide as catalysts in a mixture of dichloromethane and aqueous bicarbonate and carbonate to produce a compound of formula O . See Einhorn J. et al. 1996 61 7452 7454. 

Compounds of formula I 3a and I 6a are compounds of formula I as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention and are prepared as set forth below in Reaction Scheme 4 Ris C H CH for compounds of formula I 3a or C H CH for compounds of formula I 6a 

In general compounds of formula 1 3a and 1 6a may be prepared by the treatment of the oxazolidine methyl ester derivative of L serine with dimethyl lithiomethylphosphonate in tetrahydrofuran to afford its ketophosphosphonate intermediate compound of formula N which reacts after treatment with KCOin aqueous 2 propanol or with dry CsCOin acetonitrile with unsaturated aldehydes containing two carbon carbon double bonds of formula Q in a Horner Wadsworth Emmons HWE reaction to afford trienone intermediates of formula R . A diastereoselective reduction of the ketone functionality with the reducing agents described above e.g. with sodium borohydride cesium III chloride in tetrahydrofuran methanol followed by the removal of the protecting groups furnishes a sphingosine analog with three double bonds in the long chain base i.e. compounds of formulas 1 3a or compounds of formula 1 6a . Compounds of formula I 7 are obtained in a similar fashion by use of a substituted cinnamaldehyde of formula S as the unsaturated aldehyde in the HWE reaction.

Compounds of formula I 1a I 2a I 3a I 4a 1 5a and 1 6a can be further treated with the appropriate etherification alkylation or acylation agent under conditions known to one skilled in the art after the appropriate protection of other functional groups if desired to produce compounds of formula I not exemplified above. In addition appropriately substituted compounds of formula Ca and formula Cb wherein Ris C H C H C R CHor C H C H C R CHand Ris C R CHor is C R CHwhere each Ris defined as set forth above in the Summary of the Invention can be utilized in Reaction Scheme 1 or Reaction Scheme 2 to prepare compounds of formula I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of C H C H C R CH C H C H C R CH C R C H C H C R CH C R C H C H C R CH C H C H C H C H C R CHand C H C H C H C H C R CH and each Rcan be hydrogen halo haloalkyl alkyl alkenyl alkynyl R OR R OC O R R S O R where p is 0 1 or 2 R C O R R C O OR R N R Ror R C O N R R where each R R and Ris as defined above in the Summary of the Invention.

All compounds of the invention which exist in free base or acid form can be converted to their pharmaceutically acceptable salts by treatment with the appropriate inorganic or organic base or acid by methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Salts of the compounds of the invention can be converted to their free base or acid form by standard techniques known to one skilled in the art.

In addition to above synthetic methods certain compounds of the invention may be produced in vitro in an appropriate host cell. For example synthesis of C14 4 6 sphingadienes i.e. compound of formula I 1 as set forth above in the Embodiments Section from precursor lipids in is likely through the introduction of a second double bond into an appropriate precursor long chain base by a sphingolipid desaturase or fatty acid desaturase. Thus in certain embodiments a sphingolipid desaturase and or fatty acid desaturase may be expressed recombinantly in an appropriate cell line e.g. S2 and Cl8 cells and sphingadiene compounds isolated from these cell lines see e.g. J. Biol. Chem. 2002 277 25512 25518 Curr. Microbiol. 2002 45 459 461 FEBS Lett. 2003 538 192 196 Mol. Microbiol. 2006 62 1507 1514 Biochim. Biophys. Acta 2007 1771 271 285 .

In this regard lipid extracts in the context of the present invention can be isolated using any number of procedures known in the art. For example samples containing 50 mg of frozen intact fly material or isolated fly tissues or cells may be placed in a glass Potter Elvehjem homogenizer. Twenty microliters of an internal standard mixture containing 200 pmol of each C17 sphingosine Avanti Polar Lipids Alabaster Ala. and C17 sphingosine 1 phosphate Matreya Inc. Pleasant Gap Pa. are then added and fly materials are homogenized in 0.5 ml of methanol until pestle moved smoothly. An equal volume of water is then added and homogenization continued with another 10 strokes. Fly homogenates may be transferred to a glass tube and a two phase separation obtained after the addition of 1 ml of chloroform and 0.75 ml of 1 M ammonium hydroxide followed by vortexing and centrifugation. For the analysis of long chain base phosphates LCBPs the water phase is recovered dried and resuspended in methanol water 1 1 v v . For the analysis of long chain bases LCBs a portion of the organic phase is recovered dried and resuspended in the appropriate volume of methanol. After hydrolysis a two phase separation is obtained and the organic phase recovered.

The following specific Biological Examples are provided as a guide to assist in the practice of the invention and are not intended as a limitation on the scope of the invention.

To assess the effect of C14 sphingadienes on colon cancer cell viability HT29 DLD1 and SW480 colon cancer cells available from American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. were propagated in DME H21 plus 10 serum until confluent. Media was then replaced with serum free media containing 10 M sphingadienes SD . After 24 hours cells were harvested and whole cell extracts were prepared for caspase 3 activity assays. Caspase 3 activity was determined using substrate Ac DEVD pNA Biomol Plymouth Meeting Pa. as described Oskouian B. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 103 17384 17389 2006 .

HT29 HCT116 and SW480 colonic epithelial cell lines were chosen for study because their growth has been shown previously to be affected by sphingolipids and they have upregulation of the Wnt and AKT signaling pathways see Ahn E. H. and Schroeder J. J. Exp Biol Med Maywood 227 5 345 353 2002 Ilyas M. et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 94 10330 10334 1997 Huang X. and Guo B. Cancer Res 66 9245 9251 2006 

As shown in sphingadiene Sd treatment induced apoptosis in HT29 cells and DLD1 SW480 cells not shown . The effect was time and dose dependent data not shown .

Effect of SDs on non malignant colonic epithelium is tested using FHC and CCD 841 CoN transformed colonic epithelial cell lines. Cells are cultured in DME H21 plus 10 serum or serum free with SD. FHC line is grown in Ham s F12 45 DMEM 45 25 mM HEPES 10 ng ml cholera toxin 0.005 mg ml insulin 0.005 mg ml transferrin 100 ng ml hydrocortisone fetal bovine serum 10 and CCD 841 is grown in ACL 4 medium. Transfections are performed using FuGene HT reagent according to the manufacturer s instructions.

To address the possibility that sphingadienes might promote cell death by inhibiting the PIK AKT pathway the effect of sphingadienes on phosphorylation of AKT PTEN and the AKT substrate 4EBP which is a regulator of protein translation was evaluated using immunoblotting of whole cell extracts. The results showed that within hours of treatment with sphingadienes AKT and 4EBP phosphorylation were diminished whereas PTEN phosphorylation and activation was increased.

To determine if AKT phosphorylation was prevented due to its failure to translocate to the membrane the effect of sphingadienes on AKT and phospho AKT protein content in membrane versus cytosol of HT29 cells treated with insulin which promotes AKT translocation to the membrane was examined. The results of immunoblot analysis of cell membrane and cytosol fractions of insulin treated cells showed that AKT translocation and phosphorylation were prevented by sphingadiene treatment whereas a myristoylated constitutively membrane bound and active AKT AKT myr was unaffected by sphingadienes. Further AKT myr could protect against sphingadiene induced cell death as shown previously in .

The inhibition of AKT membrane translocation by sphingadienes was confirmed by fluorescence microscopy studies of Hela cervical carcinoma cells transiently transfected with a GFP AKT pleckstrin homology domain PHD domain fusion construct which contains the lipid sensing AKT domain. For this experiment cells were transfected with constructs for GFP PHD or GFP Akt Myr. After 36 hours the medium was changed to serum free medium plus sphingadiene and cells were incubated for 9 hours followed by treatment with 10 g ml insulin for 1 hour. Fluorescent microscopy was then performed on a Zeiss Axiovert 25 equipped with a Diagnostic spot digital camera.

Additional studies also confirmed that sphingadiene inhibition of AKT signaling leads to decreased protein translation in HT29 cells and that sphingadienes are synergistic with mTOR inhibitor rapamycin and PIK inhibitor LY294002 but not MAPK or JNK inhibitors in inducing apoptosis in HT29 colon cancer cells in vitro and were more effective than sphigadiene C2 ceramides see .

In this example the uptake and metabolism of C14 sphingadienes was compared with that of synthetic C17 sphingosine as a substitute for endogenous C18 sphingosine which is already present in cells and C14 sphingosine to assess the importance of the second double bond by HT29 colon cancer cells. Toward that end cells were incubated with 10 M sphingadiene in serum free media followed by cell harvest at various time points lipid extraction and analysis by mass spectrometry of SD SD phosphate C14 sphingosine and corresponding S1Ps. The results showed that C14 sphingosine and C14 SDs were taken up at equal rates but both faster than long chain sphingosine not shown . However whereas C14 sphingosine was rapidly converted to S1P and cleared from the cells in hours C14 SDs were not converted to SD phosphates and remained in the cells for many hours. These results suggest that SD molecules may serve as poor substrates of SK. Additional studies with both sphingosine and SD suggest that SDs likely inhibit SK.

The Wnt signaling pathway is another critical hub in the pathogenesis of colon cancer. Using immunofluorescent detection of catenin in sphingadiene treated SW480 and HT29 cells experiments showed that in addition to disrupting PI3K AKT signaling sphingadiene treatment disrupted Wnt signaling by inducing translocation of catenin from the nucleus where catenin resides in these cells due to mutations of APC to the cytoplasm. Similarly results from reporter assays using catenin T cell factor TCF reporter plasmid TOPFLASH system from Upstate now part of Millipore Billerica Mass. performed on extracts of SW480 cells showed that sphingadiene effects on catenin localization correlated with 50 reduction in TCF gene transcription see . For these experiments cells were transfected with the TOPflash TCF reporter plasmid Upstate now part of Millipore Billerica Mass. which contains three copies of the TCF binding site upstream of a TK minimal promoter and luciferase open reading frame. The FOPflash vector which contains mutated TCF binding sites served as a negative control.

The human colon cancer cell lines HT29 SW480 HCT116 and DLD1 were treated with 10 M C14 4 6Sd also referred to herein as 2 aminotetradeca 4 6 diene 1 3 diol and viability was determined at 24 hours. As shown in the viability for the treated HT29 SW480 and DLD1 cells was below 50 of controls after 24 hours of exposure and just above 50 of controls in the HCT116 cell line.

HT29 cells were then incubated with various sphingadiene compounds and viability was determined at 24 hours. As shown in C14 4 6Sd C14 4 8Sd C18 4 6Sd and C18 4 8Sd were all cytotoxic to the HT29 colon cancer cell line.

HT29 cells were incubated with various concentrations of C14 4 6Sd and viability was determined at 24 hours or incubated with 10 M C14 4 6Sd and viability was determined at various time points. As shown in the cytotoxicity effect was dose and time dependent.

Autophagy is a cell process used to degrade components of the cytoplasm and functions as a cell survival mechanism during nutrient deprivation P. Codogno and A J Meijer Cell Death Differ. 2005 November 12 Suppl 2 1509 18 . Formation of what appeared to be organelle like structures was observed in cells exposed to sphingadienes. In order to further investigate this phenomenon LC3 microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 was used as a marker for this process. In particular LC3 is found in two forms LC3 1 and LC3 2 and tracking the conversion of LC3 1 to LC3 2 is a marker for autophagic activity.

In one experiment SW480 cells were transfected with a GFP LC3 construct and treated for 4 h with 5 M C14 4 6Sd. Fluorescence microscopy to detect the presence of GFP LC3 showed autophagosome formation in cells exposed to 5 M C14 4 6Sd. In another experiment SW480 cells transfected with myr Akt were treated with various concentrations of C14 4 6Sd and the amount of LC3 activation shift from LC3 1 to LC3 2 was verified by western blotting. These results confirmed the occurrence of autophagic activity that was observed by microscopy.

In an additional experiment HT29 cells were treated with 10 M sphingoid bases or ceramides and caspase 3 activity was determined at 24 hours. Confirming the results of Example 1 shows that sphingadienes induced apoptosis in the HT29 colon cancer cell line as indicated by the increase in caspase 3 activity.

HT29 cells transfected with constitutively active myristoylated Akt myr Akt were treated with 10 M C14 4 6Sd and caspase 3 activity was determined at 24 hours. As shown in myristoylated constitutively membrane bound and active AKT myr AKT was unaffected by sphingadienes and protected against sphingadiene induced cell death as also shown in .

HT29 cells were incubated with 10 M C14 4 6Sd for 0.5 1 3 6 and 24 hours and the level of Akt and 4EBP phosphorylation was evaluated at each time point by western blotting. The results showed that sphingadienes inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and 4EBP in a time dependent manner. The ratios of phosphorylated Akt to total Akt and of phosphorylated 4EBP to total 4EBP were quantified by densitometry using ImageJ software ImageJ is a public domain Java image processing program inspired by NIH Image available at rsbweb.nih.gov ij index.html and are shown in and respectively. Similar experiments where SW480 cells were incubated with 10 M C14 4 6Sd for up to 5 hours and analyzed by Western blotting showed that reduced phosphorylation of 4EBP over time also occurred in this cancer cell line when exposed to sphingadienes.

In an additional experiment HT29 cells were treated for various time periods with 10 M C14 4 6Sd or C18 4 8Sd and the level of phosphorylation of Akt and 4EBP was evaluated by western blotting at 0.5 1.0 and 3.0 hours. The results confirmed that sphingadienes inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and 4EBP even at 0.5 hours of exposure thus inhibiting signaling through Akt and 4EBP.

HT29 cells were incubated for 6 hours with 10 M C14 4 6Sd and the translational activity of the cell cytosol was measured with the DUAL LUCIFERASE Reporter Assay System Promega Madison Wis. . As shown in Luciferase activity was reduced by more than half in the presence of 10 M C14 4 6Sd demonstrating that C14 4 6Sd inhibited protein synthesis. In another experiment HT29 cells were pretreated with inhibitors of p38 SB20350 MEK PD98059 PIK LY294002 and JNK JNK inhibitor 2 and caspase 3 activity was determined following an 18 hour incubation with 10 M C14 4 6Sd. The results shown in show that sphingadienes were synergistic with PIK inhibitor LY294002 confirming previous experiments shown in but were not synergistic with p38 MEK or JNK inhibitors.

In a further experiment HT29 cells were treated with the PIK inhibitor wortmannin and various concentrations of C14 4 6Sd and viability was determined at 24 hours by MTT assay. The results confirmed synergistic inhibition of PIK by C14 4 6Sd and wortmannin see .

HT29 cells were incubated for 0.25 hours 0.5 hours and 1 hour in media containing 10 M C14 So 4 sphingosine or C14 4 6Sd see . HT29 cells were incubated for 1 hour in media containing 10 M C14 So or C14 4 6Sd. Media was then removed and cells were incubated without lipids for 1 3 and 6 hours . At each time point cells were harvested lipids were extracted and the cellular contents of C14 So or C14 4 6Sd and the corresponding phosphorylated compounds were analyzed by LC MS.

As shown in C14 So was efficiently phosphorylated while the C14 4 6Sd was not. Similarly as shown in after 1 hour incubation without lipids almost all C14 So and its metabolite were completely metabolized while much of the C14 4 6Sd remains unaltered after even 6 hours. Thus metabolism of the sphingadiene compound was less effective than metabolism of the corresponding C14 sphingosine compound in these cells.

Further experiments to investigate the metabolism of sphingadienes showed that in fact these compounds were metabolized in an in vitro lysate system.

In order to test whether C14 4 6Sd was phosphorylated by SK1 cell extracts from HEK293 cells overexpressing murine Sphingosine Kinase 1 SK1 were incubated with C14 So or C14 4 6Sd for different time periods . The formed phosphorylated sphingoid base products were measured by HPLC. As shown in C14 4 6Sd was phosphorylated by SK1 in this in vitro cell lysate system.

In order to test if preincubation with C14 So or C14 4 6Sd has an inhibitory effect on the ability of the SK enzyme to phosphorylate the C17 So compound cell extracts were preincubated for 10 minutes with either C14 So or C14 4 6Sd followed by C17 So. As shown in no inhibitory effect was observed.

Further experiments in HEK 293 cells that overexpressed human Sphingosine 1 Phosphate Lyase SPL and that were incubated with C14So 1P and C14 4 6Sd 1P showed that C14 4 6Sd 1P was cleaved by SPL. No significant difference was observed in the processing of C17So 1P following preincubation with either C14So 1P or C14 4 6Sd 1P.

Thus using cell lysates the sphingadiene compounds were phosphorylated by SK and then cleaved by SPL similar to endogenous sphingosine compounds. Without being bound by theory it is believed that in intact cells the introduced sphingadienes may localize to a part of the cell where SK and SPL are not able to reach it thus explaining the discrepancy between the results of the cell based and lysate based experiments.

Murine experiments were performed to investigate the in vivo effect of C14 4 6Sd on the development of polyps in intestinal tissue using an established animal model system having an inherited genetic defect underlying spontaneous multiple intestinal neoplasia Min Polakis 1997 1332 F127 Kucherlapati et al. 2001 11 219 Sansom et al. 2004 18 1385 . Ten 12 week old male ApcMin mice available from Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. were administered by gavage 2.5 mg day C14 4 6Sd and ten mice received vehicle control. Mice were euthanized by COasphyxiation and intestinal tissues harvested at day 10. Gross polyps were counted and measured diameter . Microscopy showed the presence of more and larger polyps in the intestinal mucosa of control versus treated mice data not shown . As shown in there was a significant difference between the mean polyp number p

In summary the results from these experiments show that C14 sphingadienes promote colon cancer cell death by apoptosis autophagy and by blocking AKT signaling inhibiting Wnt signaling and inhibiting the SK S1P axis. In vivo murine experiments demonstrated that administration of sphingadienes can reduce the number and size of intestinal polyps. These results support the use of the sphingadiene compounds for the treatment of cancers or other diseases associated with aberrant AKT or Wnt signaling pathways or aberrant SK activity.

The following list of references is provided to assist one skilled in the art in the practice of invention.

All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail to facilitate understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the described embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

