---

title: Three-terminal two-junction photovoltaic cells and method of use
abstract: A method of operating a multi-junction photovoltaic cell with junctions connected in series includes operating each junction at a different, respective maximum power point. A photovoltaic circuit includes: at least one multi-junction photovoltaic cell, comprising at least first, second, and third terminals; a first junction of the photovoltaic cell positioned intermediate the first and second terminals; a second junction of the photovoltaic cell positioned intermediate the second and third terminals; and a device for independently setting current flow through the first junction and the second junction to allow for maximum power point operation of each junction, the device for setting current flow being connected to the second terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08088991&OS=08088991&RS=08088991
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08088991
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081014
---
This Application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional. Application Ser. No. 61 083 564 filed Jul. 25 2008 titled Three terminal Two junction Photovoltaic Cells And Method Of Use which is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if reproduced in full below.

The invention that is the subject of this patent application was made with U.S. Government support under Subcontract No. CW135971 under Prime Contract No. HR0011 07 9 0005 through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Multi junction photovoltaic cells provide a method for increasing the efficiency of solar cells and panels and other devices that produce or use electrical energy from light. In multi junction photovoltaic cells each junction has a band gap attuned to capture a specific range of photon energies in the visible spectrum. Generally each junction in a cell has a different band gap in order to broaden the range of photon energies which a cell is able to capture. This helps to increase the overall efficiency of the cell.

Photovoltaic cells produce peak power at only one current and voltage operating point. This one operating point is known as the maximum power point MPP . Operation at any other point reduces the output power and hence cell efficiency. However in a multiple junction series connected cell operating every junction at its respective peak power point is difficult because each junction will have a different MPP due to the differing band gaps of the junctions.

Placing the junctions in series dictates that the same current flow through successive junctions. Consequently where this current does not match the MPP of a junction through which it is flowing the efficiency of that junction will be compromised. By preventing one or more of the junctions from operating at its MPP the overall power output and efficiency of the cell is lower than if all the junctions were operated at their MPPs.

The junctions could be connected in parallel in an attempt to operate more of the junctions at their respective MPPs. However parallel connections result in a lower efficient for downstream power converters that aggregate and condition the electrical output of the cell. Consequently multi junction photovoltaic cells have not been successfully commercialized.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

The present specification describes a method of interconnecting multiple junction photovoltaic cells in series while still providing for all junctions to be operated at their respective maximum power points MPPs . The present specification also describes multiple junction photovoltaic cells that include junctions connected in series while still providing for all junctions to be operated at their respective maximum power points MPPs .

As used in the present specification and in the appended claims the term maximum power point MPP refers to a point on the current voltage curve of a photovoltaic junction representing the current and voltage at which the junction operates where maximum power output may be obtained. MPP is affected by several factors some examples of which are discussed in the present specification.

Multi junction photovoltaic cells having at least two or more junctions may be internally wired on an electronic chip for series connection or parallel connection. As noted above series connection provides for simpler and more efficient electrical conversion but generally suffers from lower quantum efficiency due to mismatches between the current of each junction. Parallel connection requires three terminals and suffers from the inability to easily series connect cells for higher output voltage.

In attempts to solve the problem of current mismatch and to reduce the losses resulting from such some cell designers try to make the MPP current of each junction the same by tailoring one or both of the band gap energies of the junctions. Additionally it is possible to intentionally thin the upper junction of the cell so that some of the higher energy light can penetrate to the lower junction and be collected there. However thinning the upper junction to allow higher energy light to penetrate to the lower junction comes at the penalty of lower collection efficiency due to the lower operating voltage of the lower band gap junction. Even when balanced additional loss can occur if the spectrum of the incoming light shifts.

A method allowing each junction to operate at its respective MPP current without using the aforementioned configurations would eliminate the losses from current mismatch while still allowing the cell to retain higher photon collection efficiency.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

In the illustrative graph of a plurality of curves are shown representing current voltage and power relationships through a two junction two terminal photovoltaic cell. A first current voltage I V curve represents possible current and voltage values through a first junction. A corresponding first power curve represents the power produced by the first junction at each current value in the first I V curve .

A second I V curve represents possible current and voltage values through a second junction with a higher band gap than the first junction. A corresponding second power curve represents the power produced by the second junction at each current and voltage value in the second I V curve .

A third I V curve represents possible current and voltage values through both the first and second junctions placed in series. A corresponding third power curve represents the power produced by the first and second junctions at each current and voltage value in the third I V curve .

A first set of points on the first I V curve and first power curve illustrates the maximum power point MPP of the first junction. A second set of points on the second I V curve and second power curve illustrates the MPP of the second junction. As can be seen in the current and voltage at which the first junction operates at MPP are different than the current and voltage at which the second junction operates at MPP. Because the junctions are placed in series and the cell has only two terminals the junctions must operate at the same current preferably at the current which would allow the second junction to operate at its MPP because of its lower operating current.

A third set of points on the first I V curve and first power curve illustrates the power produced by the first junction when operated at the MPP current of the second junction. The MPP current and power for the series combined junctions are illustrated by a fourth set of points placed on the third I V curve and third power curve . When the two junctions are placed in series the first junction does not produce its maximum power when operating at the MPP current of the second junction. This results in a lower overall output for the series combined junctions than if each of the junctions were operated at its respective MPP.

Depending on the incoming spectrum and the band gaps of the two junctions either junction may have a higher operating current. The band gap of each junction is determined by the semiconductor material used to make that junction. If the photovoltaic cell has more than two junctions in series each junction may have a different operating current which may result in larger deviations from the MPP of each junction and larger losses.

The holes represent absences of electrons in normally full valence bands of an atom. By doping each side of the material with different dopants a non conducting region is created between the two doped regions of the junction called the depletion layer. Hole electron pairs created in the depletion region can be collected by a photovoltaic device to power an external circuit.

Each junction also has a band gap specific to the semiconductor material or alloy being doped. The material of each junction may be selected for specific band gaps depending on the desired wavelength range to be captured from the incoming spectrum. In addition the different band gap energies result in different operating voltages at the various junctions. Some light absorbing materials which may be used include silicon cadmium telluride copper indium selenide gallium arsenide gallium indium phosphide and germanium in addition to other materials known in the art.

Light absorbing dyes may also be used to increase the capture efficiency of the photovoltaic cell. The band gap of each junction may also be manually altered or engineered to further meet desired specifications. Any other materials or methods well known in the art may be used to further maximize the efficiency of each junction.

The photovoltaic cell in the illustrated embodiment is constructed on a wafer with a substrate material such that it may be integrated with other photovoltaic cells and circuitry. The cell has two junctions a first junction comprising a low band gap adjacent the substrate and a second junction comprising a high band gap at the surface of the cell . The first and second junctions are oriented in the same direction such that the junctions are in series and produce current in the same direction in the circuit.

The cell also may have a tunnel junction and a buffer layer intermediate the first and second junctions . The tunnel junction provides for electrical connection between the first and second junctions without using metal interconnects while having low power losses. The tunnel junction also allows the series multi junction cell to be monolithic. The buffer layer may accommodate lattice matching requirements between the first and second junctions if the junctions are made from different materials.

The cell has first second and third terminals . The first terminal may be connected directly to the substrate . The substrate in this example acts as an electrical contact. The second terminal may be attached to a tap contact positioned at a place intermediate the first and second junctions . In this embodiment the tap contact is attached to the tunnel junction proximate the buffer layer . The third terminal is connected to a top contact attached to the second junction at the surface where the cell is exposed to light.

The second terminal provides an additional branch in the circuit between the junctions allowing the current through both the first and second junctions to be different while still placing the junctions in series. The tap contact may be placed at different locations in the stack depending on the configuration of the cell . Additionally the cell may include a new tap contact for every additional junction such that the cell has a terminal connected to a tap contact intermediate each pair of junctions for example a three junction cell would include four terminals.

While the current embodiment displays the tunnel junction and buffer layer in one possible arrangement the photovoltaic cell may be constructed such that the tunnel junction may be placed in a different location in the stack of the series connected cell . The cell may be constructed using hetero junctions made of the same material and without a buffer layer . The cell may alternatively have a transparent substrate with substrate side illumination such that the higher band gap junction may be positioned adjacent to the substrate.

The second terminal in the cell is connected to an input of the balance converter and the third terminal is connected to an output of the balance converter such that the balance converter is connected in parallel with the second junction of the photovoltaic cell and in series with the first junction . The first terminal is connected to ground as a reference. The circuit also has a maximum power point tracking MPPT converter connected to the third terminal of the photovoltaic cell and leading to the output of the circuit .

The MPPT converter may be a high efficiency DC to DC converter adapted to convert the entire output of both junctions to the load utilization voltage or current at the maximum power point. DC to DC converters may operate by converting the input DC current to high frequency AC current running it through a transformer and then back to a different DC current.

The MPPT converter compares the output of the cell to the load voltage which may be a battery in many instances. After comparing the MPPT converter converts the output of the cell to the voltage which will allow the maximum power into the load for charging the battery or other load. Photovoltaic cells are generally capable of outputting a higher amount of voltage than the load to account for changes in temperature. In solar cells the performance may vary to a large degree depending on the temperature particularly if the cells are to be used in both summer and winter. In order to reduce power loss the MPPT converter attempts to match the voltage between the two as closely as possible. Consequently without an MPPT converter photovoltaic cells are likely to experience high amounts of power loss. With a MPPT converter the amount of power loss is significantly reduced.

The balance converter shown in is applicable to lower voltage outputs for example into a single or a few cells in a battery charger application. The balance converter may be any converter capable of processing the difference currents that may be used. The inductor may be connected to the drain of a first transistor and the source of a second transistor . The balance converter may also include shunt capacitors for filtering signal noise at the input and the output of the balance converter.

The balance converter and MPPT converter may be connected to ground as a reference point which may also help reduce noise or prevent reference mismatches between the photovoltaic cell the balance converter and the MPPT converter . The overall rating of the balance converter may be small compared to the power of the complete flow because the current difference between the junctions may only be a small fraction of the total current through the cell . The MPPT converter may be designed similarly to the balance converter though the MPPT converter may include different component values. The MPPT converter may also have a different overall circuit rating.

Though the current embodiment shows the balance converter configured in a certain way the invention may use any sub circuit which accomplishes the same goal of processing the difference current between junctions in a multi junction photovoltaic cell. Also additional junctions may be added to the photovoltaic cell along with tap terminals between each junction and balance converters connected to each tap terminal in order to operate each of the junctions at its respective MPP. This may allow for higher total power to be produced with a single photovoltaic cell.

At higher powers it may be desirable to operate a photovoltaic conversion circuit at higher voltage to improve the efficiency of the MPPT converter . The circuit in shows a design allowing series interconnection of photovoltaic cells while maintaining the ability to operate each junction at its respective MPP and therefore a higher overall power. The circuit shown has first and second two junction photovoltaic cells in series. First and second balance converters are connected to their respective cells at a second terminal and a third terminal . The first terminal of the first cell is connected to ground as a reference point and the first balance converter for the first cell is also referenced to ground. The first terminal of the second cell may be connected to the third terminal of the first cell .

However there may be additional cells connected in series in the circuit as indicated by the break in the circuit line in which case the first terminal of the second cell would be connected to the third terminal of the preceding cell. A balance converter connected at each series tier balances the currents between each pair of junctions allowing them all to operate at MPP. The balance converters connected for each subsequent cell in series after the first cell are referenced to the first terminal of the cell to which the balance converters are connected. This improves upon series connected circuit designs of the prior art which operate each junction in a multi junction photovoltaic cell at the same current. By connecting a plurality of cells in series the circuit is able to produce a larger amount of power at the output than a single cell.

As shown in the third terminal of the cell may be connected to an input of a first MPPT converter . The second terminal may be connected to an input of a second MPPT converter . The outputs of the first and second MPPT converters may be connected to each other such that the first MPPT converter is in series with the second junction and the second MPPT converter is in parallel with the first MPPT converter and the second junction .

In this configuration the second MPPT converter converts the cell output at the second terminal to the load utilization voltage and the first MPPT converter converts the output at the third terminal to the load utilization voltage. The current outputted by the first and second MPPT converters is combined and sent to the load rather than first combining the outputs of the two junctions and then converting it to the load utilization voltage. In cells with more than two junctions the circuit may include an additional MPPT converter connected to a new tap terminal for each additional junction.

The cell includes two junctions a first junction comprising a low band gap adjacent the substrate and a second junction having a high band gap at the surface of the cell . Similar to the series connected embodiment in the junctions in the cell may be p n junctions.

The junctions are oriented on the wafer in opposite directions such that each junction produces current in opposite directions in the circuit. This allows the cell to be placed in parallel with other cells. The cell does not require a tunnel junction in order to have an electrical connection between the first and second junctions and for the multi junction cell to be monolithic. The cell may have a buffer layer intermediate the first and second junctions to accommodate lattice matching requirements between the two junctions if they are made from different materials which would allow for a different band gap in each junction.

The cell has first second and third terminals . The first terminal may be connected to the substrate which acts as a contact. The second terminal is attached to a tap contact positioned at a place intermediate the first and second junctions . In this embodiment the tap contact is attached to the buffer layer . The third terminal is connected to a top contact attached to the second junction at the surface where the cell is exposed to light. The second terminal provides an additional branch in the circuit between the junctions allowing the junctions to be placed in parallel in the circuit. The tap contact may also be attached to the first junction rather than the buffer layer . The parallel connected cell may have other monolithic designs as long as it has a tap contact intermediate the junctions.

Parallel connected photovoltaic cells may have several advantages over series connected cells. Tunnel junctions in series connected cells add both cost and complexity due to additional fabrication steps. The tunnel junction also adds additional power loss reducing the cell efficiency. The major disadvantage of parallel connected cells in the prior art is the inability to connect a plurality of multi junction parallel connected cells in series for higher output voltage. With the inability to series connect the parallel connected cell in prior art circuits downstream power converters are forced to operate at the voltage of a single cell which is relatively low. Operating a converter at the low input voltage of a single cell results in converters with efficiencies that are low enough that the advantages of the parallel connected cell are minimized. However the present embodiment makes series connection of high band gap junctions in parallel connected cells possible by using an additional converter to boost the output of the low band gap junction allowing for a higher operating voltage.

A basic embodiment of a parallel connected multi junction cell is shown in . In this embodiment the second terminal of the cell is connected to an output of a balance converter while a third terminal is connected to an input of the balance converter . The balance converter may be a synchronous rectifier boost converter. A boost converter has at least two semiconductor switches and an energy storage element in this embodiment two NMOS transistors and an inductor and is used to step up the output of the lower band gap junction. The balance converter has a duty cycle which is adjusted to operate the low band gap junction at MPP. The second terminal connects the output of the balance converter to the high band gap junction which is the first junction in this embodiment.

At least two cells may be connected in parallel as in the circuit shown in the embodiment of . A first cell is connected to a first balance converter connected similar to the embodiment of where the output of a first balance converter is connected to a first high band gap junction at the second terminal and the input of the first balance converter is connected to a first low band gap junction at the third terminal of the first cell .

A second cell is connected to a second balance converter similar to the first cell and first balance converter . The first balance converter is referenced to the first terminal of the first cell and the second balance converter is referenced to the first terminal of the second cell . The first terminal of the second cell is also electrically connected to the output of the first balance converter and thus is also connected to the second terminal of the first cell .

The circuit also has a MPPT converter with the input of the MPPT converter being connected to the second terminal of the second cell and the output of the second balance converter . The MPPT converter is referenced to the first terminal of the first cell . Appropriate referencing of each converter facilitates the proper operation of the circuit .

Power flow from the high band gap junctions in this embodiment follows a path of least resistance that circumvents the balance converters . Current is able to flow through the first high band gap junction in the first cell directly to a second high band gap junction in the second cell and through the outer loop of the circuit to the input of the MPPT converter . Therefore any power produced by the high band gap junctions is uninterrupted and unmodified by the balance converters.

However power flow from the first low band gap junction and a second low band gap junction passes through both of the balance converters such that the output of the low band gap junctions is stepped up to the output of the high band gap junctions . The output of the first low band gap junction is stepped up by the first balance converter and the output of the second low band gap junction is stepped up by the second balance converter . The combined outputs are sent to the input of the MPPT converter with the output of the first high band gap junction where the overall output of the circuit is converted to MPP and sent to a load such as a solar panel output. The MPPT converter is adapted to match the voltage of the high band gap junctions to the panel output.

The balance converters may suffer from low efficiency due to the low output voltage of a single cell. However the penalty of this low efficiency is offset by the fact that the output of the high band gap junctions will be processed at high efficiency. The penalty is further reduced by the fact that the output of the high band gap junctions is generally significantly greater than half of the total power output of the circuit.

While only two cells are connected in parallel in the current embodiment as many additional cells may be connected as needed to reach the desired output voltage. The concept of using balance converter to boost the output of a lower voltage junction to the output of a higher voltage junction can be extended to three or more junctions on one cell by using a balance converter for each junction added to the cell.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

