---

title: High-index contrast waveguide optical gyroscope having segmented paths
abstract: A waveguide optical gyroscope is disclosed. The waveguide optical gyroscope includes a laser, two detectors, a set of couplers and a set of waveguides. The laser generates a light beam. A first waveguide guides the light beam to travel in a first direction, and a second waveguide guides the light beam to travel in a second direction. The first and second waveguides are coupled to several ring waveguides via the couplers. The first detector detects the arrival of the light beam traveling from the first waveguide, and the second detector detects the arrival of the light beam traveling from the second waveguide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08031343&OS=08031343&RS=08031343
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08031343
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080829
---
The present application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 365 to the previously filed international patent application number PCT US08 074717 filed on Aug. 29 2008 assigned to the assignee of the present application and having a priority date of Oct. 29 2007 based upon U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 000 830. The contents of both applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was made with United States Government assistance under Contract No. HR0011 05 C 0027 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The United States Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to optical gyroscopes in general and in particular to high performance waveguide optical gyroscopes.

Optical gyroscopes can sense rotation by measuring the difference in time for two light beams or other electromagnetic waves to pass in opposite directions through a common loop path. During rotation the two opposite light beams within an optical gyroscope are out of phase. Specifically the light beam moving in the direction of rotation will arrive at a detector at a later time than the light beam moving in opposite to the direction of rotation. Thus by measuring the phase difference between the two opposite light beams within the optical gyroscope rotation information can be obtained.

However if the two opposite light beams within the optical gyroscope are only slightly out of phase then the change in phase difference between the two opposite light beams may not be significant enough to be measured by a detector. For example prior art optical gyroscopes tend to have less than optimal performance because they are not able to measure very small changes in phase difference between two opposite light beams. Consequently it would be desirable to provide an improved optical gyroscope having higher detection capabilities.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a waveguide optical gyroscope includes a laser two detectors a set of couplers and a set of waveguides. The laser generates a light beam. A first waveguide guides the light beam to travel in a first direction and a second waveguide guides the light beam to travel in a second direction. The first and second waveguides are coupled to several ring waveguides via the corresponding couplers. The first detector detects the arrival of the light beam traveling from the first waveguide and the second detector detects the arrival of the light beam traveling from the second waveguide.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

As mentioned previously when two opposite light beams within an optical gyroscope are only slightly out of phase the phase difference between the two opposite light beams may not be significant enough to be measured by a detector. This is because the light intensity does not vary enough to cause any noticeable change in the phase difference between the two opposite light beams and such point represents a point of almost zero slope on a graph of light intensity versus phase difference. Sensitivity however can be greatly increased by shifting the phase of one of the two opposite light beams by 90 degrees so that the detector will be operating at a point of maximum slope on the graph of light intensity versus phase difference. As a result small variations in phase difference can result in large variations in light intensity.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is illustrated a diagram of a waveguide optical gyroscope having segmented paths in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown a waveguide optical gyroscope includes a laser four tunable couplers and detectors . Couplers are 15 to 90 couplers and couplers are 90 couplers. Couplers control the coupling coefficient and phases of the light beam.

Waveguide optical gyroscope also includes multiple waveguides connected between laser and detectors . For example waveguide optical gyroscope includes linear waveguides and circular waveguides . Waveguide is connected between laser and detector and waveguide is connected between laser and detector . Each of waveguides and is in the form of a ring coupled to each other and to waveguides and . For example waveguides and are coupled to each other via couplers and and waveguide is coupled to waveguides and via couplers and . Waveguides are made of high index contrast materials. The usage of high index contrast couplers allows the rotation induced phase shifts to be converted into a power variation with a resonator structure itself. The greater the number of couplers within the ring structure the greater the amplitude change versus rotation induced phase shift.

Laser generates a light beam. Waveguide guides the light beam to travel in a first direction and waveguide guides the light beam to travel in a second direction. Detector detects the arrival of the light beam traveling from waveguide and detector detects the arrival of the light beam traveling from waveguide . The phase different between waveguide and waveguide is 90 degrees.

When the light beam traveling in the first direction within waveguide arrives at coupler a portion of the light beam is coupled to ring waveguide that guides the light beam to travel in a clockwise direction indicated as dotted arrows . When the light beam traveling in the clockwise direction within waveguide arrives at coupler most if not all of the light beam is coupled to ring waveguide that also guides the light beam to travel in the clockwise direction. When the light beam traveling in the clockwise direction within waveguide arrives at coupler most if not all of the light beam is coupled back to ring waveguide . When the light beam traveling in the clockwise direction within waveguide arrives at coupler again a portion of the light beam is coupled back to waveguide .

Similarly when the light beam traveling in the second direction within waveguide arrives at coupler a portion of the light beam is coupled to ring waveguide that guides the light beam to travel in an anti clockwise direction indicated as solid arrows . When the light beam traveling in the anti clockwise direction within waveguide arrives at coupler most if not all of the light beam is coupled to ring waveguide that also guides the light beam to travel in the anti clockwise direction. When the light beam traveling in the anti clockwise direction within waveguide arrives at coupler most if not all of the light beam is coupled back to ring waveguide . When the light beam traveling in the anti clockwise direction within waveguide arrives at coupler again a portion of the light beam is coupled to waveguide .

Like most waveguide optical gyroscopes waveguide optical gyroscope exploits the Sagnac effect that describes the counter rotating optical radiation in a ring which induces a phase difference as the ring is being rotated. Such phase difference is proportional to the rate of rotation. Ring waveguides within waveguide optical gyroscope are less than 1 cm in diameter. The Sagnac effect is multiplied by a laser beam going around ring waveguides multiple times and this multiplication is enabled by a high index contrast segmented path approach of the present invention.

High index contrast structures are utilized to fabricate waveguide optical gyroscope based on the modification of optical phase within a ring structure. The segmented paths of waveguide optical gyroscope enable multiple revolutions of the light beam without detrimental interactions with outside couplers. Coupler steering affects utilized to detect small optical phase variations within the compact coupler need co propagating radiation of the same wavelength to occur. As a result the effect on internal couplers should be null.

The fixed phase variation induced by rotation within waveguide optical gyroscope can be monitored by measuring the amplitude of the induced steering effect within couplers .

With reference now to there is depicted a graph of optical power output versus phase variation at a coupler input of waveguide optical gyroscope from such as coupler in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the amplitude change developed by the effective phase change of the optical frequency as it interacts with the input phase.

Referring now to there is depicted a graph of output voltage versus rotational rate at a coupler input of waveguide optical gyroscope from in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown in at each of detectors and from for the measured configuration 3500 um diameter with TIA gain of 100 ohms using germanium detector the rotational sensitivity is 0.0023 Volts Hz. For the typical differential gyroscope this will be two times this value as there is an equal and opposite signal contribution from each coupler.

As has been described the present invention provides an improved waveguide optical gyroscope having segmented paths. The usage of segmented paths allow light to be confined within a true single path preventing back coupling into an emitter. The waveguide optical gyroscope of the present invention allows larger interaction cross sections in terms of the Sagnac effect and allow even greater device scaling while allowing improved or similar performance. The waveguide optical gyroscope of the present invention allows close pack the guides without cross coupling which can further enable extremely long effective optical lengths by close packing of the waveguides in the cross coupled rings.

There are several benefits to the segmented path approach of the present invention. It can detect small optical phase variations. It provides phase variations in couplers to affect amplitude changes through the phase steering of the beam. It can bypass couplers where undesirable power loss may occurred. It can direct a light beam through a controllably long rotational path such as providing 400 rotations for an optical gyroscope having a 3 mm diameter loop.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

