---

title: Human-portable remote control driving system
abstract: A human-portable modular system is provided for remotely controlling an automotive vehicle by an operator physically unconnected thereto. For a typical vehicle, the system includes a radio control transmitter that sends command signals from the operator, a pedal control assembly, a steering control assembly, an electronics case disposable on the driver's seat, coupling mechanisms that respectively connect said assemblies to the electronics case, and a package for stowing and transporting the transmitter, the electronics case, and the assemblies. The pedal control assembly includes a linkage arm, an actuator pivotably connected to the linkage arm at its proximate end, and first and second arms pivotably connected to the linkage arm to controllably push the respective control pedals for acceleration and braking. The steering control assembly includes a motor that provides torque, and an attachment that couples the motor to the vehicle's steering wheel. The electronics case includes a receiver that receives the command signals from the transmitter, a controller that communicates the command signals to the motor and the actuator, and a portable power supply to provide electrical power to the controller and to the receiver. The package can include shoulder straps to facilitate backpack transport. The coupling mechanisms include detachable hinge connectors to pivotably attach the pedal control and steering control assemblies to the electronics case. The pedal control assembly can further include near the linkage arm's distal end a linkage arm feedback potentiometer that sends an angular position indicator signal to the controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08051936&OS=08051936&RS=08051936
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08051936
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080612
---
The invention is a Continuation in Part claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 518 735 filed Aug. 30 2006 titled Adaptable Remote Control Driving System to Wallace Louie and James L. Hebert and assigned Navy Case 97889.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to remote control systems for automobiles. In particular the system includes a human portable kit of linkage components that can be adjustably and non destructively installed for a variety of vehicles and subsequently disassembled for storage in minimal time. The system responds to control signals transmitted via a radio remote control device.

Test safety demands on occasion require remote control of a road mobile ground transportation vehicle such as that simulated by the time traveling Delorean sportscar featured in Back to the Future. Such implements have typically been custom fitted to the controls subsequent to or currently with modification of the driver s position equipment such as seat bench or steering wheel.

Conventional remote control systems yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a human portable modular system for remotely controlling an automotive vehicle by an operator physically unconnected thereto. For a typical vehicle the system includes a radio control transmitter that sends command signals from the operator to drive the vehicle a pedal control assembly a steering control assembly an electronics case disposable on the driver s seat coupling mechanisms that respectively connect said assemblies to the electronics case and a package for stowing and transporting the transmitter the electronics case and the assemblies.

The pedal control assembly includes a linkage arm an actuator pivotably connected to the linkage arm at its proximate end and first and second arms pivotably connected to the linkage arm to controllably push the respective control pedals for acceleration and braking. The steering control assembly includes a motor that provides torque and an attachment that couples the motor to the vehicle s steering wheel. The electronics case includes a receiver that receives the command signals from the transmitter a controller that communicates the command signals to the motor and the actuator and a portable power supply to provide electrical power to the controller and to the receiver.

In various embodiments the package can include shoulder straps to facilitate backpack transport. In alternate or additional embodiments the coupling mechanisms include detachable hinge connectors to pivotably attach the pedal control and steering control assemblies to the electronics case. Additionally and or alternatively the pedal control assembly can further include near the linkage arm s distal end a linkage arm feedback potentiometer that sends an angular position indicator signal to the controller.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Operating a motor vehicle typically requires a human driver to control direction and speed along a road or other path. Select circumstances that present catastrophic hazards to personnel and or equipment may preclude such an option. Such operations may include test conditions such as crash evaluation and or radiation exposure or battlefield conditions such as on patrol for landmines. Remote control of the vehicle from a standoff position presents a solution to avoid dangerous risk to human personnel.

For military operations in hostile environments armed service personnel may commandeer a vehicle for remote operations without necessitating permanent modifications to the vehicle. Conventional methods of installing remote driving equipment require physical modification to the vehicles and are not readily transferable from one vehicle to another. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 518 735 incorporated entirely by reference describes a related system that can be installed for remote vehicle operation and subsequently disassembled. That system is appropriate for remotely driving vehicles during research and development testing under hazardous conditions.

That and earlier systems could not easily be carried by one person. Also conventional systems do not facilitate expeditious installation into virtually any vehicle. Various embodiments provide a modular human portable system that upon installation provides remote vehicle control for virtually any conventional four plus wheel vehicle that incorporates automatic transmission.

In regions far from supply depots the equipment necessary to perform such tasks may preferably be human portable such as in a back pack. This back pack version can be used to remotely operate virtually any vehicle via radio control with a system that is totally self contained therein. Optimally such equipment should be modular and rugged to facilitate transport under severe vibration shock inclement weather and large temperature variations. Also preferably such equipment should be installable by a single operator. The system would be environmentally sealed to resist damage from dust debris rain water or temporary submersion in water.

Upon installation the operator starts the vehicle manually and shifts the gear setting to drive prior to being remotely driven by the radio controller. In order to provide operational capability in desolate regions on the globe at least one direct current DC battery supplies the electrical power which limits the operational run time depending upon system load and usage. Thus significant steering and braking to avoid obstacles may reduce total operation duration as compared to cruising at constant speed in a straight line.

Within the container may be contained a radio control transmitter a battery and electronics case an actuator linkage segmented actuator arms a steering drive motor a connection hub steering brackets and optionally a remote sensor such as a miniature video camera. The transmitter may represent a commercial off the shelf COTS standard Futaba 9 channel transmitter controller and receiver operating on 75 MHz. This can easily be replaced with a system that operates on 2.4 GHz or any tactically used frequency with Digital Spread Spectrum DSS if required operationally.

A motor controller such as an AX2550 receives instruction signals. A pair of 12 volt batteries provides 24 volts DC power to the controller . Either the motor controller or one of the batteries submits 5 volts DC power to the receiver . An optional third channel optional servo output receives signals from the controller . An accelerator brake pedal subsystem with a 24 volt linear actuator and a feedback potentiometer pot is external to the case . A steering subsystem with a 24 volt motor and a feedback pot is also external to the case . Wires connecting the controller to the pedal and steering subsystems may be tightly twisted with braided shield to fixed potential known as ground.

The disconnect physically separates the actuator and the motion control arm under defined circumstances such as under acceleration levels beyond an established threshold. The disconnect includes a pair of components that axially combine to form a cylinder held by a releasable pin as described more fully in paragraph 0048 of the 735 co pending Application.

The actuator expands and contracts to translate linearly thereby pivotably deflecting the arm . The pivot rotates clockwise or counterclockwise depending on the acceleration or braking control being commanded. The motor controller provides control signals to the actuator and the pot . The actuator arms include an accelerator arm a brake arm and a safety return spring . The arms are pivotably attached to the linkage arm . The arms respectively engage accelerator and brake pedals of the vehicle. The spring provides tension to pull the arm away from the actuator upon release of the disconnect .

The arms may be encased in a weather proof enclosure with the insides that have the embodied design as illustrated below. This enclosure can be secured by the slidable hinge to the battery and electronics case that provides the stability and pack pressure needed to actuate the pedals. The arms that extend down to the respective accelerator and brake pedals are length wise adjustable to fit sundry vehicles. The tilt angle to the pedals can be adjustably set at the hinge relative to the case . The pedals may be connected with plastic tie wraps or industrial Velcro to the actuator arms and no modifications are necessary to either pedal for releasable detachment of the arms .

The steering device attaches to the top of the case to inhibit twisting while turning the steering wheel . The steering device may contain the direct drive motor for turning the steering wheel . The adjustable arm brackets of which three are preferably shown connect to the steering wheel converging at the hub and connect to the motor . Another optional feedback pot corresponding to the pot in may be connected to the hub to provide steering feedback signals to the controller .

This system provides the advantage of complete portability enabling the components to be packaged for being carried by one person on his back. The new concept for the steering wheel mechanism alleviates the need for a drive chain as the prior application. The system may be self aligning to thereby facilitate faster system installation.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

