---

title: Rigid particulate matter sensor
abstract: A sensor to detect particulate matter. The sensor includes a first rigid tube, a second rigid tube, a detection surface electrode, and a bias surface electrode. The second rigid tube is mounted substantially parallel to the first rigid tube. The detection surface electrode is disposed on an outer surface of the first rigid tube. The detection surface electrode is disposed to face the second rigid tube. The bias surface electrode is disposed on an outer surface of the second rigid tube. The bias surface electrode is disposed to face the detection surface electrode on the first rigid tube. An air gap exists between the detection surface electrode and the bias surface electrode to allow particulate matter within an exhaust stream to flow between the detection and bias surface electrodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07891232&OS=07891232&RS=07891232
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 07891232
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081121
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC26 06NT42966 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Internal combustion engines e.g. diesel engines typically generate an exhaust flow that contains varying amounts of particulate matter PM . The amount and size distribution of particulate matter in the exhaust flow tends to vary with engine operating conditions such as fuel injection timing injection volume injection pressure or the engine speed to load relationship. Adjustment of these conditions may be useful in reducing particulate matter emissions and average particle size of the particulate matter from the engine. Reducing particulate matter emissions from internal combustion engines is environmentally favorable. In addition particulate matter measurements for diesel exhaust is useful for on board e.g. mounted on a vehicle diagnostics of PM filters and reduction of emissions through combustion control.

Conventional technologies that may be used for on board monitoring of particulate matter in exhaust flow include the use of wire electrodes in sensor applications. Wire electrode sensors apply a high voltage between two electrodes and measure the current or charge between the electrodes. The electrode measurement is correlated with a specific particulate matter concentration. However wire electrode sensors are subject to the de calibration and baseline drift of the sensor due to accumulation of soot i.e. particulate matter deposit on and between the electrodes. Wire electrodes are also subject to vibration which changes the distance between the electrodes. As the distance between the electrodes changes according to the vibration of the electrodes the varying distance introduces error in the particulate matter reading.

Embodiments of a sensor are described. In one embodiment the sensor includes a first rigid tube a second rigid tube a detection surface electrode and a bias surface electrode. The second rigid tube is mounted substantially parallel to the first rigid tube. The detection surface electrode is disposed on an outer surface of the first rigid tube. The detection surface electrode is disposed to face the second rigid tube. The bias surface electrode is disposed on an outer surface of the second rigid tube. The bias surface electrode is disposed to face the detection surface electrode on the first rigid tube with a gap between the detection surface electrode and the bias surface electrode. Other embodiments of the sensor are also described.

Embodiments of a system are also described. In one embodiment the system is a system for detecting particulate matter. The system includes a sensor and an electronic controller. The sensor is configured to detect the particulate matter within an exhaust stream. The sensor includes a pair of non conductive rigid tubes a detection surface electrode and a bias surface electrode. The detection surface electrode is disposed on one of the rigid tubes and faces the other non conductive rigid tube. The bias surface electrode is disposed on the other rigid tube. The bias surface electrode faces the detection surface electrode and is separated from the detection surface electrode by an air gap for passage of a portion of the exhaust stream through the air gap. The electronic controller is configured to determine an amount of the particulate matter within the exhaust stream. Other embodiments of the system are also described.

Embodiments of a method are also described. In one embodiment the method is a method for making a particulate matter sensor. The method includes disposing a detection surface electrode on an outer surface of a first non conductive rigid tube. The method also includes disposing a bias surface electrode on an outer surface of a second non conductive rigid tube. The bias and detection surface electrodes face each other and are separated by an air gap for passage of a portion of an exhaust stream through the air gap. The method also includes disposing a first heater on a first heater post within an internal cavity of the first rigid tube. The first heater applies heat to burn off particulate matter from the first non conductive rigid tube. The method also includes disposing a second heater on a second heater post within an internal cavity of the second rigid tube. The second heater applies heat to burn off particulate matter from the second non conductive rigid tube. Other embodiments of the method are also described.

Other aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrated by way of example of the principles of the invention.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described herein and illustrated in the appended figures could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of various embodiments as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure but is merely representative of various embodiments. While the various aspects of the embodiments are presented in drawings the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by this detailed description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussions of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the description herein that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the indicated embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

While many embodiments of a particulate matter sensor are described herein at least some of the described embodiments detect particulate matter within an exhaust stream. The sensor includes two surface electrodes on two rigid tubes. The surface electrodes are oriented to face each other. An air gap between the two surface electrodes allows exhaust to flow between the two surface electrodes. In some embodiments the first surface electrode is a detection electrode. The detection electrode is disposed on the first rigid tube. The second surface electrode is a bias electrode and is disposed on the second rigid tube. The bias surface electrode has an applied voltage also referred to as a bias voltage. As the particulate matter in the exhaust stream passes between the bias and detection surface electrodes a charge builds up or a current flows on the detection surface electrode. An electronic controller measures an electrical characteristic in the form of a charge current or voltage and determines an amount of particulate matter in the exhaust.

Additionally as exhaust passes through the sensor particulate matter may build up on the surfaces of the sensor. Deposits on the detection and bias surface electrodes can distort particulate matter measurements. In some embodiments each rigid tube of the sensor includes a heater post located in an internal cavity within the tube. A wire heater may be wrapped around the heater post. The wire heater is configured to generate heat sufficient to burn off the particulate matter deposits on the surfaces of the rigid tube. In particular the heaters may burn off particulate matter deposits on the detection and bias surface electrodes.

Also in some embodiments by locating the surface electrodes on two separate rigid tubes typical problems relating to electrical leakage through intermediate ceramic layers can be avoided. While conventional ceramic sensors which include electrodes separate by an intermediate ceramic layer can exhibit electrical leakage at high voltages and or high operating temperatures due to decreased electrical insulating properties of the intermediate ceramic layer embodiments of the particulate matter sensor described herein do not have an intermediate ceramic layer interposed between the electrode layers and therefore do not exhibit electrical leakage between the surface electrodes. In other words embodiments with the surface electrodes mounted on separate structures e.g. rigid tubes have reduced charge leakage which results in reduced signal distortion compared with conventional ceramic particulate matter sensors made from a single stack of ceramic and conductive layers.

In some embodiments the first rigid tube is made of non conductive ceramic. For example the first rigid tube may be made of alumina AlO3 magnesia MgO magnesium aluminate spinell MgAlO or other types of spinells. Other embodiments may use other types of ceramics and or non conductive materials. In one embodiment the first rigid tube has a substantially cylindrical geometry. The first rigid tube has an outer diameter that is constant along the length of the first rigid tube . In some embodiments the first rigid tube has an inner diameter to retain the structural stability of the first rigid tube . In one embodiment the outer diameter of the first rigid tube is between about 6 to 7 mm approximately 0.25 inch . In other embodiments the outer diameter of the first rigid tube is between about 5 to 10 mm. In some embodiment the wall thickness of the first rigid tube is about 1 mm approximately 30 to 40 thousandths of an inch . In other embodiment the wall thickness of the first rigid tube is about 0.5 to 2 mm. The inner diameter of the first rigid tube depends on the outer diameter and the wall thickness of the first rigid tube . However at least some embodiments of the first rigid tube have an inner diameter that is sufficiently large to fit the first heater post within the interior cavity of the first rigid tube . The size of the first heater post may depend on the type of heating element which is implemented by the first heater post . Other embodiments may use other dimensions for the inner or outer diameters or the wall thickness of the first rigid tube .

The first rigid tube is aligned parallel to the second rigid tube . The second rigid tube is substantially similar to the first rigid tube . In some embodiments the first and second rigid tubes and are formed of the same ceramic materials. In other embodiments the first and second rigid tubes and are formed of different ceramic or non conductive materials. The first and second rigid tubes and define an air gap . The air gap allows air or exhaust to flow between the first and second rigid tubes and . The air gap separates the first and second rigid tubes and as well as the corresponding detection and bias surface electrodes and by a distance D.

The detection surface electrode is disposed on the outer surface of the first rigid tube . The detection surface electrode is made of a conductive material. The detection surface electrode may include for example a metallic foil made of platinum gold tungsten nickel or a mullite based material. Other embodiments may use or include other types of conductive materials. In some embodiments the detection surface electrode is painted onto an outer surface of the first rigid tube . In another embodiment the detection surface electrode is printed onto the outer surface of the first rigid tube . In other embodiments the detection surface electrode is chemically or physically deposited onto the outer surface of the first rigid tube .

The bias surface electrode is substantially similar in structure and material to the detection surface electrode . In particular the bias surface electrode is disposed on an outer surface of the second rigid tube . The detection and surface electrodes and may be between about 1.0 to 2.0 square cm. In another embodiment the surface area of each of the surface electrodes and is between about 0.5 to 4.0 square cm. Other embodiment may have surface electrodes and with smaller or larger surface areas.

In some embodiments the bias surface electrode is biased and generates an electric field. In one embodiment a bias voltage is applied to the bias surface electrode . The bias voltage of the bias surface electrode may be for example between about 1 to 10 000 Volts. Alternatively the bias voltage may be between about 500 to 5 000 Volts. Other embodiments may use other bias voltages. By biasing the bias surface electrode the particulate matter passing in the exhaust stream between the bias surface electrode and the detection surface electrode affects a charge or current on the detection surface electrode . The charge or current or voltage on the detection surface electrode can be correlated with a particulate matter concentration within the exhaust stream. In this way the detection surface electrode facilitates detection of the particulate matter in the exhaust stream.

The detection and bias surface electrodes and are connected to the first and second electrical connections and respectively. In one embodiment the first electrical connection is used to measure the charge current or voltage on the detection surface electrode . The second electrical connection is used to supply the bias voltage to the bias surface electrode . shows the first and second electrical connections and looped around the outside of the rigid tubes and and the surface electrodes and to mechanically connect to the surface electrodes and . In another embodiment the electrical connections and may be connected to the surface electrodes and by a thermal process such as brazing. The electrical connections and extend down to the sensor base . Other embodiments may implement other connection configurations for the first and second electrical connections and .

In order to measure the charge on the detection surface electrode some embodiments of the sensor include a charge amplifier not shown coupled to the detection surface electrode via the first electrical connection . The charge amplifier may be calibrated to measure an accumulated electric charge on the detection surface electrode as particulate matter flows within the exhaust stream between the detection and bias surface electrodes and . The electric charge that accumulates on the detection surface electrode varies with the mass concentration of particulate matter in the exhaust conduit. Thus the charge amplifier may generate an output voltage corresponding to the measured accumulated electric charge. In general the charge amplifier obtains a voltage proportional to the charge and yields a low output impedance. Hence the charge amplifier also may be referred to as a charge to voltage converter.

Alternatively in some embodiments current flow on the detection surface electrode and through the first electrical connection may be measured in order to determine an amount of particulate matter in the exhaust stream. In another embodiment voltage or another electrical parameter may be measured to determine the amount of particulate matter in the exhaust stream.

In one embodiment although not depicted in detail in the detection and bias surface electrodes and are offset relative to each other to reduce the chance of an electrical short occurring between the electrical components of the first rigid tube and the electrical components of the second rigid tube . In particular the detection and bias surface electrodes and are offset relative to each other along a longitudinal axis of the first and second rigid tubes and to reduce the chance of an electrical short occurring between the bias surface electrode and the first electrical connection or between the detection surface electrode and the second electrical connection . However it should be noted that offsetting the surface electrodes and may reduce the amount of overlap between the surface electrodes and and hence reduce the effective size of the surface electrodes and or alternatively increase the effective distance D between the surface electrodes and .

The first and second heater posts and are located within the internal cavities first and second rigid tubes and . The heater posts and are described in more detail below with reference to . The sensor base allows the sensor to be mounted into an exhaust channel wall e.g. an exhaust pipe .

The shape of the first rigid tube forms an internal cavity . In one embodiment the heater post is centrally mounted within the internal cavity . Alternatively the heater post may be offset for example to be near the detection surface electrode . A heater element is disposed on the outer surface of the first heater post . In one embodiment the heater element is separated by a distance from the first rigid tube . More specifically there may be an air gap between the heater element and the ceramic structure of the first rigid tube . By having the air gap between the heater element and the first rigid tube the temperature of the first rigid tube can be maintained lower so that the first rigid tube does not get too hot and become electrically conductive. If the first rigid tube were to become electrically conductive then a disruptive current can flow from the heater element to the surface electrode if the heater element were to contact the inner surface of the first rigid tube .

In one embodiment the heater element is a resistive heater element. For example the heater element may be a resistive wire wrapped around the heater post . In one embodiment the heater element is configured to generate heat substantially continuously. In some embodiments the heater element is configured to generate heat intermittently. Some embodiments may incorporate a timing scheme to control the heater element as described in more detail below with reference to .

In one embodiment the heater element maintains specific operating temperatures for the corresponding rigid tube and in particular the corresponding detection surface electrode . The heater may operate continuously periodically or on some other non continuous basis. In one embodiment the heater element operates within a temperature range of approximately 200 C. or higher to burn off particulate matter from the rigid tube which may include burning off particulate matter accumulated on the detection surface electrode . In some embodiments the heater element operates within a temperature range of approximately 400 C. or higher. Other embodiments of the heater element may operate at other temperatures.

The particulate matter detection system also includes an electronic controller . The electronic controller includes a heater controller a processor and an electronic memory device . The sensor relays the sensor signal to the processor of the electronic controller . In some embodiments the processor analyzes the sensor signal from the sensor . If the sensor signal is corrupted the processor sends a control signal to the heater controller . The heater controller activates one or more heaters on the sensor to burn off particulate matter deposits that might corrupt the sensor signal from the sensor . In some embodiments the processor sends the control signal to the heater controller to activate the heater on the sensor according to a timing scheme or on some other substantially continuous or non continuous basis.

If the sensor signal from the sensor is not corrupt the processor compares the sensor signal with data stored in a lookup table on the electronic memory device to determine one or more qualities of the exhaust in the exhaust system . For example the processor may determine an amount of particulate matter in the exhaust stream. The processor also may compare the sensor signal from the sensor with data from the lookup table to estimate for example a mass concentration of particulate matter in the exhaust stream. In other embodiments the electronic controller facilitates detection of one or more other qualities of the exhaust in the exhaust system .

Some embodiments of the particulate measurement system also may include one or more emissions control elements not shown to emit neutralizing chemicals into the exhaust system either before or after the sensor . It should also be noted that embodiments of the sensor may be tolerant of fluctuations of certain gaseous constituents in an exhaust gas environment. In this way the sensor may be calibrated to measure particular chemicals or materials within an exhaust stream.

It should also be noted that the sensor may be used in some embodiments to determine a failure in another component of the particulate matter detection system . For example the sensor element may be used to determine a failure of a particulate matter filter not shown within the exhaust system . In one embodiment a failure within the particulate matter detection system may be detected by an elevated signal generated by the sensor . In some embodiments the particulate matter detection system includes an alarm to indicate a detected failure of the sensor or other component of the particulate matter detection system . In some embodiments the sensor also could be coupled to another sensor or detector such as a mass flow meter.

The illustrated method includes disposing a detection surface electrode on an outer surface of a first non conductive rigid tube . The method also includes disposing a bias surface electrode on an outer surface of a second non conductive rigid tube . The detection and bias surface electrodes and face each other and are separated by an air gap with a distance D. The air gap allows a portion of an exhaust stream to pass between the detections and bias surface electrodes and . The method also includes disposing a first heater on a first heater post within an internal cavity of the first rigid tube . The method also includes disposing a second heater on a second heater post within an internal cavity of the second rigid tube . The heaters may be operated according to the electronic controller of to burn off particulate matter on the rigid tubes and and or the detection and bias surface electrodes and . The depicted method then ends.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operations may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be implemented in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the above description specific details of various embodiments are provided. However some embodiments may be practiced with less than all of these specific details. In other instances certain methods procedures components structures and or functions are described in no more detail than to enable the various embodiments of the invention for the sake of brevity and clarity.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the invention is to be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

