---

title: Associating network devices with users
abstract: Systems, devices, and methods for associating network devices with users are described, which can facilitate establishing a secure user to network device association. In various embodiments, the disclosed subject matter facilitates devices providing indication of location and device identity to a user and recognizing the user is in the proximity of the device. The disclosed subject matter provides efficient and secure device to user association and can facilitate performing customized actions based on the nature of the association.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08302166&OS=08302166&RS=08302166
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08302166
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080218
---
The subject disclosure relates to network systems and more particularly to associating network devices with users.

Networks are widely used to interconnect various types of devices. Examples of networks can include wireless and wired local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs personal area networks PANs metropolitan area networks MANs cellular and telephone networks the Internet etc. Examples of devices interconnected by networks can include desktop computers portable computers and handheld devices network telephones network enabled printers copiers cellular devices multifunction devices and other appliances either information technology IT appliances or otherwise etc.

A network such as a network within an organization can interconnect numerous network devices. Typically devices such as printers copies and the like provide services are shared among a number of users and are located centrally according to anticipated demand. Conversely devices such as computers and handheld devices provide user network access and can be shared or designated to a particular user or user class as the situation demands.

Although the evolution of technology has provided powerful systems and enabled more efficient performance of complex tasks the initial setup and association of a device with a user remains complex and daunting for even the most simple task. It is now extremely common for users to wish to associate themselves with a networked device. For example the purpose of association may be physically locating the networked device creating a communication channel between the user e.g. a secure channel in which case this would require creating a secured association and or releasing or authorizing the use of resources on the device e.g. authorizing a user to use a specific printer .

However bootstrapping or associating the connection between the network devices and users using them still requires significant human intervention. Consider for example an employee attempting to print a document for the first time after arriving in a new office space. If the nearest networked printer has not already been set up on the employee s computer by experienced and knowledgeable IT staff then the user must go about seeking out a suitable printer determine the proper information required to set up the printer on the employee s computer go through any required setup programs and device driver installation programs and then possibly print a test page to ensure success.

In addition many configuration and management interfaces for networked devices operate under the often unfounded assumption that the user configuring the device is sufficiently technically capable to locate and identify the correct physical device and determine proper set up information. As the number of devices networked together on a site increases and or the size and complexity of the network increases the issue of locating the correct device becomes increasingly overwhelming. Significantly such a set up routine would be required for each additional device that the employee has occasion to use.

Moreover any one of the steps in the setup routine is prone to human error which can result in lost productivity and user frustration. Moreover measures in place to enhance security or privacy such as authentication or privacy protections can further provide opportunity for user error as a result of the tradeoffs between usability security and privacy protection. In some instances a frustrated user may give up and abandon the attempt which can result in lost future productivity due to the employee s avoidance of setting up IT assets provided to improve worker productivity. In other instances the frustrated user may turn to IT support staff for assistance which can lead to IT staff s reduced availability for attending to more complex tasks. In turn this can lead to higher IT support costs. Thus a technique that makes this association effortless and secure will reduce the cost of managing and supporting network devices.

Conventional solutions to device association are point solutions that either assume that the user knows the location of the device or omit the user from the association process. As an example Bluetooth pairing involves selecting menu items or pressing buttons on devices such as a cell phones and headsets in a non intuitive manner. By design the Bluetooth pairing method assumes that the user possesses the devices to be associated or is at least in close proximity with the devices. Thus the user presumably already knows the location of the devices as a precondition of the pairing operation. In addition the pairing does not really associate the user with either device because after the pairing occurs anyone or no one can use the device without affecting the paired devices. In other words the use of the paired devices by a user is incidental to the pairing between of the devices.

In addition although a password might be considered as an adequate mechanism for creating a secure association between a user and a device this leaves open to human interaction the requirement of physically locating the correct networked device. This is a more subtle issue than at first glance because even in home networking environments while there may only be a small number of devices that are networked the expertise of the user might be such that they do not know where the device is on a network what its indications describe how to enter a password or otherwise interact with the device.

As a further example a proximal user interacting or associating with a device by using a radio frequency smart card such as a corporate identification card can create a secure association between the user and the device. However this presumes that the user has already located the device and still requires significant human interaction to run and configure the required setup programs and device driver installation programs.

Moreover there are numerous security exploits that can be performed by a rogue device or software component masquerading as a legitimate device or process. For example if a user is required to enter security credentials on a terminal a compromised terminal masquerading as an intended device that the user wishes to associate with can surreptitiously capture the user s credential.

The above described deficiencies are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems encountered in associating network devices with users and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art may become further apparent upon review of the description of the various non limiting embodiments of the disclosed subject matter that follows.

In consideration of the above described deficiencies of the state of the art the disclosed subject matter facilitates associating network devices with users by associating device location with a device and communicating the location information to a user in an efficient and meaningful way to facilitate associating the device with the user and or the user with the device.

In consideration of the above described limitations in accordance with exemplary non limiting embodiments the disclosed subject matter facilitates association of network devices with users. Accordingly methods are provided that comprise initiating a device discovery on behalf of the user. The methods also include presenting a set of device or function candidates for selection. The methods further include identifying and locating a device of interest based on an indication generated by the device of interest. In addition the methods include interacting with the device of interest to facilitate device recognition of the user and creating a communication channel with the device of interest based on identifying the device of interest and device recognition of the user. Moreover the methods can include performing a customized action based on creating the communication channel with the device of interest.

In consideration of the above described limitations in accordance with further non limiting embodiments the disclosed subject matter facilitates association of network devices with users. Accordingly methods are provided that comprise responding to a device discovery query. The methods also include providing an indication to facilitate determining physical location and device identification in response to receiving a device selection notification on behalf of the user. The methods further include recognition by the network device that the user is in the proximity of the network device. In addition the methods include establishing a communication channel with the user based on recognizing that the user is in the proximity of the network device. Moreover the methods can include performing a customized action based on proximity of the user a user profile a device usage history user local selections device inventory or audit nature of the communication channel and or user authentication credentials and the like.

In further consideration of the above described limitations various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter provide devices and systems that facilitate associating network devices with users.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter that follows.

Simplified overviews are provided in the present section to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This overview section is not intended however to be considered extensive or exhaustive. Instead the sole purpose of the following embodiment overviews is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of these and various other embodiments of the disclosed subject matter that follow. It is understood that various modifications may be made by one skilled in the relevant art without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Accordingly it is the intent to include within the scope of the disclosed subject matter those modifications substitutions and variations as may come to those skilled in the art based on the teachings herein.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software software in execution firmware middle ware microcode and or any combination thereof. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration not limitation both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal . Additionally components of systems described herein may be rearranged and or complemented by additional components in order to facilitate achieving the various aspects goals advantages etc. described with regard thereto and are not limited to the precise configurations set forth in a given figure as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In addition various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter are directed to methods. It is to be understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an example of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. The method claims appended hereto present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

It is now common for users to wish to associate themselves with a networked device. For example the purpose of association may be physically locating the networked device creating a communication channel between the user e.g. a secure channel in which case this would creating a security association and or releasing or authorizing the use of resources on the device e.g. authorizing a user to use a specific printer . Typically the end goal of such an association is to create a communication path that has certain properties between a user and a device on a computer network for the purposes of performing some task of interest to the user.

Accordingly the user typically first attempts to locate the correct device on the network and or the physical location of the device. For example there can be many devices in the network which can make it difficult to locate and identify the correct device without some sort of user recognizable output from the device. Secondly once the user has located and identified the correct device the user then has to initiate some mechanism to facilitate creating an association with the correct device and user so that an intended task is performed by the correct device and the correct user. In addition a secure channel can be desired by the user and or an organization s security or privacy policy as well as desiring the ability to perform a customized action upon successful association with a device.

Thus the disclosed subject matter facilitates associating network devices with users in a secure fashion and in a manner that is tangible or salient to the users. Advantageously the disclosed subject matter overcomes many of the difficulties encountered in the conventional manual device set up routines by avoiding the inherent technical difficulties and opportunities for human error. For purposes of illustration the disclosed subject matter can comprise locating the correct device and creating the communication channel desired to accomplish a desired task. Additionally locating the correct device can comprise discovery of candidate devices user identification of the correct device and or device identification of the correct user. In addition after successfully associating a network device with a user the disclosed subject matter can facilitate performing a customized action based on the association with the user. In addition to facilitating associating network devices with users the disclosed subject matter can facilitate further useful functions such as creating and updating a device map and or an inventory of network devices for auditing purposes.

According to various non limiting embodiments computing environment can comprise user network device and service network device interconnected by a network. Although for purposes of illustration the network is shown as comprised of Ethernet segments and connected by links to router and the associated network devices it is to be appreciated that the structure and components of the network can be modified according to system design requirements and without departing from the scope of the disclosed subject matter and the claims appended hereto. For example a wireless access point can interconnect other network segments comprising further interconnections to additional networks and network devices. As a further example router can connect to other network segments comprising further interconnections to additional network devices network segments connections to the internet and so on. Additionally network devices can conceivably connect to the system to facilitate associating network devices with users via other networking technologies and devices not shown such as LANs PANs MANs WANs cellular and telephone networks and so on using technologies such as but not limited to Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. IEEE 802.3 Ethernet IEEE 802.11 WiFi IEEE 802.15 Zigbee IEEE 802.16 WiMax Ultra Wide Band UWB and so on.

Additionally while user network device and service network device are shown as generic network capable devices user network device is intended to refer to a class of network capable devices that user can use to facilitate access to a network to initiate a device association discovery step where a device to be discovered is associated with a task service and or function that the user is interested in performing or obtaining. While for purposes of illustration the user is described as initiating a device association discovery step it is to be understood that device e.g. via an operating system and or application software can initiate a device association discovery step on behalf of the user. Accordingly exemplary user network device can include without limitation a cellular phone connected to the network via access point or otherwise a laptop computer a desktop computer a terminal a tablet personal computer PC device and or a personal digital assistant PDA and so on. As further examples user network device can include such devices not shown as a pen computing device portable digital music player home entertainment devices network capable appliances and sensors and so on.

In addition while service network device is shown as a generic network capable device service network device is intended to refer to a class of network capable devices that can be an object of a device association discovery step where a device to be discovered is associated with a service to be provided perform a function and or perform a task as task that the user is interested in. Accordingly exemplary user service network device can include without limitation a network capable camera connected to the network via access point or otherwise a scanner a multi function device MFD a printer and or a copier and so on. As further examples service network device can include such devices not shown as a network enabled refrigerator a network enabled coffee maker and or any network enabled appliance or sensor either IT appliances e.g. network attached storage NAS or otherwise etc.

It is to be appreciated that user network device and service network device can comprise more or less functionality than those exemplary devices described above and can be either one or both of a user network device and a service network device as the context requires and as further described below in connection with . In addition in some circumstances a user network device service network device can comprise a subset of the functionality of a service network device user network device . For example camera can include functionality to initiate a device association discovery step for instance to discover and associate with a network connected photo printer not shown . As a further example PDA can include camera or memory card reader functionality that can be made available and discoverable to other network devices to accomplish desired tasks or provide desired services.

According to various non limiting embodiments of the disclosed subject matter computing environment can further comprise server and or database server . For example service network device and or user network device can be relatively simplistic and lacking certain features to facilitate associating network devices with users. Accordingly particular aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be facilitated by server and or database server in communication with service network device and or user network device . For instance a service network device can be capable of performing a customized action upon successful association but be unable to receive a set of custom instructions directly from user . As a result a set of custom instructions can be stored on a server and or database server via user network device and that can be received by service network device from server and or database server . As a further example while a service network device can comprise a fingerprint reader or other user identification components in order to identify a correct user for device marketing reasons e.g. keeping device costs low security reasons e.g. centralizing access control or other reasons the service network device can offload the authentication and or database functions to server and or database server .

According to various aspects of the disclosed subject matter computing environment can facilitate associating network devices with users . For example consider a user attempting to locate or associate with a network device such as service network device . Further consider that user or an operating system and or application software on behalf of the user initiates a device association discovery step that the non expert user and service network device are able to participate in.

Computing environment can facilitate automatically determining where service network device is physically located by discovering and identifying a desired service network device and indicating this to the user for the purpose of associating with service network device . For instance the association can include determining where service network device is physically located which can include superimposing the network topology and the physical location of the device e.g. as made available by server and or database server and or by printing or displaying a map on a visual display unit on hardcopy or an augmented reality type displays .

Alternatively or additionally the service network device can indicate its presence by a user detectable and or and application detectable action. According to further aspects of the disclosed subject matter a service network device can create an output which is uniquely identifiable by the user e.g. a printer printing a page identifiable by the user to facilitate discovery of the device and or indentifying the correct device among other possible candidates. Further examples of the service network device identifying itself can include making a sound e.g. audible or non audible that is user detectable or detectable by a device carried by the user e.g. a cellular phone or PDA flashing a light e.g. whether or not the light is in visible spectrum and or initiating a radio frequency RF beacon that a device user is carrying can home in on to help locate and identify service network device .

According to still further aspects of the disclosed subject matter computing environment facilitates users identifying themselves to a service network device or the service network device identifying users once the user has located the correct device. Typically a user can enter a password or a pin number swipe a pass card or corporate identification card or other identification step for the purpose of granting access to the device resources and or performing or retrieving a job. However other examples can include physical interaction with the device e.g. physically touching the device performing a biometric identification step or performing a task in close proximity to the device e.g. speaking to or looking at a device with an attached microphone or camera to facilitate users identifying themselves to a service network device or the service network device identifying users .

It should be appreciated that network devices e.g. user network device and or service network device can be relatively simplistic devices lacking certain features to facilitate identification of user or associating with user . Thus particular aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be facilitated by server and or database server in communication with service network device and or user network device . In this instance server and or database server can be configured to identify the service network device e.g. by medium access control MAC address and to establish a trusted path to the service network device and the associated authentication interface e.g. keypad microphone camera fingerprint reader etc. that user is interacting with.

According to another aspect of the disclosed subject matter computing environment can facilitate creating the communication channel between user and service network device . For example part of the process of creating the communication channel can be performed during discovery and or identification of service network device using standard TCP IP communications channels and protocols to create the communication path. In the event that user is using a user network device such as a PC from which a print job was sent then the process of identification of service network device with the PC can facilitate creating the communication path with service network device .

According to yet another aspect of the disclosed subject matter computing environment can facilitate performing customized actions for user upon successful association e.g. a secure association or otherwise with service network device . For example after user has successfully associated and securely associated if desired with service network device the service network device can perform a customized action based in part on the user the nature of security association proximity of the user a user profile a device usage history user local selections device inventory or audit nature of the communication channel and or user authentication credentials and the like. As a further illustration a customized action can include boosting the priority of jobs associated with that user e.g. boosting the priority of print jobs in a queue for a user that is identified to be at the printer releasing jobs on the service network device that require physical presence of user e.g. printing a sensitive or secure job such as payroll information adding service network device to a roster or inventory of devices that are attached to the network for creation and or updating of a device map and or for auditing purposes.

Additionally a further customized action can include performing the required device driver installation and setup using standard setting and or as customized by an organization s IT staff. As a further example of a customized action a user can associate with the nearest network enabled coffee machine. After discovering the nearest candidate device and finding its location the network enabled coffee machine can retrieve coffee menu preferences for user from server and provide a customized coffee menu and or prepare a made to order beverage once the network enabled coffee machine identifies the user .

It is to be appreciated that various functions components or process steps can be combined or distributed via techniques known in the art or can be eliminated or reorganized according to system design considerations without departing from the scope of the claims appended hereto. For example while some of the functions e.g. locating network devices discovering network devices identifying devices and users creating communication channels and performing customized actions are described as occurring in discrete elements or devices for purposes of illustration it should be understood that such functions can be combined or distributed as desired. As an example for association of a user with a networked printer via desktop computer some or all of the described functions can be facilitated with the listed elements without the need for server and or database server . Further examples of such modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the various embodiments disclosed and claimed herein.

Accordingly system can comprise network device interconnected to network device to facilitate associating network device with user via network device . According to aspects of the disclosed subject matter network devices and can further comprise a device discovery component to facilitate discovering candidate network devices and or functions for a task or job of interest to user . Accordingly the user or other component e.g. via an operating system and or application software on behalf of the user can initiate a device association discovery step.

In addition device discovery component can facilitate using multiple disparate levels e.g. more than one level of discovery. For example device discovery component can discover candidate network devices on a network or subset thereof for instance by using standard network device browsing capabilities of network device . However as devices may be distributed across a large area e.g. throughout a building without more the set of candidate network devices can be such that the set comprises an amount of network devices too numerous to assist user in locating a device of interest. To that end the set of candidate devices can be narrowed to facilitate discovering devices more proximal to the user e.g. in the same room or on the same floor of a building .

Accordingly device discovery component can facilitate narrowing the set of candidate device based on for example a device map created by superimposing the network topology and the physical location of the device e.g. as made available by server and or database server and or by printing displaying a map on a visual display unit on hardcopy or an augmented reality type displays . In addition device discovery component can facilitate determining from a previously associated network device not shown that a nearby device is signaling to the user. Accordingly device discovery component and or can facilitate signaling or reception of signals from nearby devices such as by generating and or receiving a RF beacon or other signal to facilitate narrowing the set of candidate devices. As a result the previously associated device can inform the user of the location and or identity of the potential candidate network device based in part on the proximity to existing associated devices. Advantageously the previously associated device sensing potential candidate network device signaling can be used to update the device map which can also be useful for inventory an auditing purposes.

According to further aspects of the disclosed subject matter device discovery component can facilitate narrowing the set of candidate devices based on information derived from network configuration. For example if two network devices are located on the same subnet and a third is located on a different subnet it can be inferred that one of the devices on the same subnet as the network device is a better candidate than the devices on a different subnet. Similarly a similar inference is possible based on the minimum number of hops or other network statistics. As a result discovery component can facilitate performing and or responding to network queries and analysis tools e.g. sending or responding to Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP echo request packets ping a tracert or traceroute tool etc. for the purpose of providing additional discovery information to the components of system .

Until this point the disclosed subject matter has been described in the context of discovering devices. However a typical user has a greater affinity for performing some function rather than having an affinity for a particular device per se. Accordingly system can facilitate associating network devices with users based on a desired function. To that end device discovery component can facilitate discovering and associating with devices based on the functions that the device can perform.

Thus system can facilitate generating and providing for each network device a user friendly or task oriented name or alias. For instance device discovery component can facilitate describing and storing e.g. stored in database server or other suitable storage component the network supported functions associated with the device. For example a typical MFD can perform print copy scan and or fax functions which happen to be collocated within the same device. Thus an associated device discovery component of such a network capable MFD could describe and store such network supported functions. As a result when user is interested in faxing a document rather than merely discovery of fax machines a device discover step could poll database server or other suitable storage component to discover network supported fax functions.

Advantageously by partially dissociating the task oriented function from the device system facilitates associating user to a network device having a fax function which may be more convenient than the nearest standalone fax device. Thus the user can associate to the function rather than the device. As a further example if user requires a camera and a previously associated printer happened to have one albeit not a core function of the printer system can use the association concept to direct user to the printer with the camera function. As is further described below with respect to device and user identity a user running a discovery step for a camera can be recognized by an as yet associated printer having a camera function that can identify when the user walks into the space with a network available camera function.

As a further advantage of partially dissociating the task oriented function from the device system can facilitate bundling or substitution the result of which can lead to more efficient use of IT assets. For example an available scanner can partially substitute for a fax function in some circumstances whereas bundling the scanner with a voice over internet protocol VOIP application can eliminate the need for a separate fax device. As a result of partially dissociating the task oriented function from the device system can also facilitate such functions as resource partitioning between the bundles of devices or functions which can include for example a bundle of devices or functions based on a task oriented functions e.g. the capability to display a video the capability to serve as a video source the capability to serve as a network attached storage usage of processing cycles on an unused desktop computer etc. .

Additionally an association on the basis of a function of a device having multiple functions or bundled with other devices functions can further simplify the association process. For instance because the discovery step has already been performed in associating with a function of the device or a bundle it can be presumed that the topological and physical mapping has already been performed for the existing association. Alternatively once a function of a device or a bundle of capabilities attached to a device or sets of devices has been associated with a user the additional available functions can be enumerated by software which could be made available for further associations as future user tasks arise. For example a fax function of a MFD can be associated with a user . Later during a discovery step when user seeks a card reader to read the contents of a memory stick the disclosed subject matter can facilitate directing user to the previously associated MFD having the required functionality as previously enumerated.

Referring again to once a set of candidate devices has been narrowed user can further narrow the physical location of the device of interest. For instance the network topology can facilitate generating an initial set of candidate network devices that can then be presented for selection. In other words from among a group of devices centrally located or distributed across an office space the disclosed subject matter can facilitate physically locating the network device e.g. to pick up a print job scan a document etc. . Thus in addition to providing device discovery based on network topology and information derived therefrom network device can facilitate indicating to the user the identity of itself e.g. network device .

According to further aspects of the disclosed subject matter network devices and can further comprise a device identity component to facilitate determining the identity and physical location of the device of interest e.g. network device . For example device identity component can facilitate identifying the device of interest e.g. network device to user .

As an illustration consider user attempting to locate and setup a nearby printer. In this case user could use network device e.g. a desktop PC to initiate a device association discovery step for a nearby printer for the job of interest which in this case can be described as network device . Thus as described above device discovery component can facilitate generating a set of candidate devices for the job of interest which could then be narrowed to a useable set of candidate devices. Assuming that network device e.g. the desirable printer is among the useable set of candidates then user or other component e.g. via an operating system and or application software on behalf of the user can select network device . As a result device identity component of network device can then assist user in narrowing the physical location of the device.

Accordingly device identity component and depending on the context device identity component can facilitate signaling identity of the associated network device to a user . For example in addition to locating a device of interest based in part on a virtual map of devices by location device identity component can facilitate transmitting a beacon such as an RF beacon. In that instance device identity component of a network device in the form of a handheld or portable device e.g. a cellular phone a PDA a laptop etc. can be configured appropriately to facilitate homing in on a transmitted beacon to locate network device .

Advantageously the disclosed subject matter can facilitate indicating the presence of the network device to a user in multiple ways to locate and distinguish between collocated devices. For example a hearing impaired user would desire one or more visual indications that a sight impaired user would not. In addition it may be difficult to distinguish between two collocated network devices based on only one type of indication.

Accordingly further examples of such device identity component signaling as dictated to network device by network device can include lights blinking e.g. in a sequence color or pattern whether or not the light is in the visible spectrum emission of a sound whether or not the sound is audible e.g. buzzers playing a particular song emission of ultrasonic or subsonic waves and or any kind of RF energy that a user might be able to home in on and so on. Other forms of device identity signaling can include for example using network device to instruct the network device e.g. a printer from among a bank of centrally located devices to print out a user recognizable page e.g. with a unique number or pattern such as the user s picture or displaying or projecting an image of the user s face on a display or other surface such as on the ceiling. Additional forms of device identity signaling can include user recognizable device gestures such as using moveable parts on the device or moveable items near and associated with the device.

As described above such signals can be of a form as to be human recognizable with or without the aid of a device. For example device identity component of network device can signal its identity and location in an inaudible range which can be identified and located using sound signal recognition of a device identity component of a network device in the form of a handheld or portable device e.g. a cellular phone a PDA a laptop etc. .

As a result according to an aspect of the disclosed subject matter a third device not shown e.g. such as a cell phone pen computer media player corporate identification card and the like can facilitate mediating the introduction of the user to the network device . For instance using a suitably configured device identity component e.g. such as a device identity component of network device of a device associated with a user a user can receive a pattern sample e.g. a signal sample such as a sound sample an RF energy sample or other information . This pattern sample can facilitate matching a pattern generated by a network device as dictated by the network device .

For example using network device user can select network device for association. Then using a user associated third device e.g. a cell phone or other suitable device user can receive a signal sample such as a sound sample that matches a pattern that network device directs the device identity component of network device to generate in order to facilitate identification and location of network device . For instance using an appropriately configured cellular phone application the user could be notified by the third device that network device is within close proximity as determined by the cellular phone application recognizing a pattern match the notification of which can be by vibrations beeps with increasing frequency indications on the device graphical user interface GUI or other human recognizable signals when the user nears network device e.g. within a user configurable proximity for which the signal can be recognized by the cellular phone .

Referring again to once the user has identified and located the correct device of interest according to an aspect of the disclosed subject matter the device can facilitate recognizing the user. Accordingly network device and depending on the context network device can comprise a user identity component e.g. user identity component or to facilitate user recognition. For example in certain circumstances it can be desired to limit association to network device to authorized users. For instance it may be desired to restrict access to a network printer to human resources department personnel for privacy protection. As such association with network device can be limited based on recognition of user identity in addition to traditional access limitation forms. As a further example network device e.g. a network printer can authorize release of a confidential print job only when a user initiating the job is recognized to be at network device .

Accordingly user identity component and depending on the context user identity component of the associated network device can facilitate recognition of a user . As an example the user identity component of network device and depending on the context network device can facilitate identifying the user for example by touch such as a user entering in a password passphrase or pin number visual recognition e.g. facial recognition etc. in the case of a network device having video capture capability audio capture and or voice recognition and or by sensing something that is associated with and carried by the user e.g. a corporate identification card . As a further example user identity component can facilitate device recognition of the user based in part on packets exchanged over a wireless network or energy or pattern of energy emitted in the radio frequency band optical band near optical band or sonic or subsonic bands. Additionally during device discovery and selection of a device of interest or thereafter user and a suitably configured network device can be directed e.g. by network component used to discover network device to perform and accept a mutual acceptable gesture as a form of user recognition.

In the event that it is especially important to that the association of network device is to a human user e.g. for security purposes as opposed to an operating system and or a software application acting on behalf of or in lieu of user then the user identity component of network device and depending on the context network device can be configured to require recognition based on human forms of identification e.g. biometric identification . For instance user identity component of network device can be configured to use audio capture and voice recognition to facilitate determining that the associating entity is human as opposed to some rogue device that has been surreptitiously installed to detect the network devices and create covert communication channels.

According to an aspect of the disclosed subject matter a third device not shown e.g. such as a cell phone pen computer media player corporate identification card and the like can facilitate recognition of the user by the network device . For instance using a suitably configured user identity component e.g. such as a user identity component of a network device of a device associated with a user a user can submit to a sampling algorithm e.g. voice capture picture from a camera phone or other sampling algorithm .

Then when a user desires to associate with network device requiring such a sample but for which network device lacks the required input e.g. not capable of sampling audio or not equipped with a camera this third device can transmit this information to network device directly via a communication path e.g. Bluetooth infrared or other wired or wireless communication path to facilitate user recognition by network device . Alternatively such a sample can be transmitted to a back end authentication channel for recognition which in return could set a cookie certificate or other authorizing credentials on the third device. In turn the user can then use the third device to facilitate recognition by network device by transmitting the authorizing credentials directly to network device via a communication path e.g. Bluetooth infrared or other wired or wireless communication path .

It is to be appreciated that the various functions components or process steps can be combined or distributed via techniques known in the art or can be eliminated or reorganized according to system design considerations without departing from the scope of the claims appended hereto. For example while some of the functions or components are described as occurring in discrete elements or devices for purposes of illustration it should be understood that such functions or components can be combined or distributed as desired. As an example although a network device can comprise some or all of the user identity component functions as described at least some of these functions can be facilitated in part by server database server and or a mediating third device.

Referring again to after or concurrently with locating network device e.g. network device is discovered and identified as the device of interest and device identifying the user the disclosed subject matter according to an aspect thereof can facilitate setting up one or more communication channels between user e.g. via an operating system and or an application of network device acting on behalf of user and network device . To that end network devices and can comprise a communication component e.g. communication component and respectively to facilitate setting up one or more communication channels between user and network device .

Accordingly communication component and can facilitate establishing one or more of the communications channels during locating network device e.g. network device is discovered and identified as the device of interest and or during user recognition according to standard TCPIP communications channels and protocols or other suitable channels and protocols wired and or wireless networking standards and so on. For example if user is attempting to associate via network device such as a desktop PC and from which a print job was sent then network device discovery and identification of network device can establish one or more of the communications channels according to standard protocols. Additionally one or more of the communications channels can be established based in part on identifying the device of interest device recognition of the user device recognition that user is in proximity to the device and or authentication of the user and so on.

In addition to establishing one or more of the communications channels as described communication component and can facilitate communicating with third devices for the purpose of mediating the association between the user and the network device . According to further aspects of the disclosed subject matter communication component and can facilitate establishing secure communications channels with user for the purpose of establishing a secure association according to desired security and privacy restrictions. According to yet another aspect of the disclosed subject matter communication component and can facilitate communicating with other network connected devices such as for example server and or database server for such purposes as user identification device mapping and inventory or auditing user authentication and or downloading or storing preference information and the like.

In addition to facilitating associating network devices with users the disclosed subject matter in one aspect thereof can facilitate performing customized action by network device based in part on the association with user . For example based on the nature of the security association of user upon an association e.g. secure or otherwise with user network device can perform a customized action. As a further example if a securely associated user is determined to be in the room with the device e.g. a printer the device can take a customized action such as boosting the priority of a print job in a print queue. Additionally if a print job is a secure job because the authorized user is in the room the print job can be processed without needing to enter a password or other action on the device to release the job for printing or conversely delaying a print job of sensitive information until user is physically present to pick up the material etc. .

It is to be appreciated that such customized action can include anything that can be facilitated by for example running a scripted task or profile based action. For instance upon establishing a secure user to device association according to the disclosed subject matter a network enabled coffee machine can download user coffee preferences e.g. from server and or database server associated with the user and either provide a customized menu or prepare a made to order beverage without delay. As a further example upon establishing a secure user to device association according to the disclosed subject matter a network enabled video display unit can identify that securely associated user is present and download and run a scripted task that for example displays what certain stock prices are displays the user s latest RSS feeds and so on.

In addition for auditing and inventory purposes it is useful to know where a network device is physically located. Thus the disclosed subject matter can facilitate auditing and inventory of network devices by binding physical location with network topology which could happen for instance when a network device to user association occurs. As an example a customized action for devices that do not already have a physical location mapped to network topology e.g. for auditing and inventory purposes or to facilitate device discovery and identification user can be prompted to enter location identifying information as part of the association process.

Additionally as described above a mapped network device in a partial map of network devices can make use of device identity component to facilitate identifying new network devices that have yet to be mapped by assigning a provisional location of new network devices according to the proximity with mapped network device . Accordingly user upon initial discovery of the device can be given this provisional location information for device identification and location purposes. Upon successful identification of the new network device by user a customized action for the new network device can include prompting user to confirm or update the provisional location information.

Suppose that user desires the introduction of a device to the wireless network e.g. served by the wireless access point owned by user such as a wireless network printer e.g. as depicted by network device a suitably capable server a wireless networking capable refrigerator etc. and to be controlled by user . Further suppose that because user and the associated network components e.g. network and wireless access point are located in an apartment building neighboring networks e.g. including further wireless access points and neighboring network devices can be located within the relevant proximity of wireless access point . As a result if one of the wireless network devices e.g. network device wireless access point etc. owned by user sends packets wirelessly the packets can also received by neighboring networks e.g. including further wireless access points in neighboring apartments.

Thus while wireless network printer e.g. as depicted by network device can be physically located e.g. by noting that the device is in the apartment of user device can be connected to the network such as by obtaining an internet protocol IP address via dynamic host configuration protocol from presumably open wireless access point and yet device can still not be visible to user . That is the issue of locating the device and or identifying the device can be partially solved by virtue of the nature of the problem e.g. that there is one device to be added and it is in the same room as user . However the issue remains for user to determine which devices are located on the network of interest e.g. served by wireless access point owned by user . Specifically user desires a unique association with network device via wireless access point and to the exclusion of devices and networks not owned by user . For instance one of the neighboring devices can include the same or similar wireless network printer the neighboring wireless network printer can be associating with open wireless access point owned by user and or wireless network printer e.g. as depicted by network device can be associating with one of the open wireless access points of neighboring networks .

As a result the problem remains for user to create a secure association with network device via network device e.g. the desktop personal computer . Thus as described above system can facilitate associating network device with user . For instance device discovery component can facilitate using disparate levels of discovery to discover network device by for example using a signal strength indication e.g. from wireless access point of device associated with wireless access point network topology and or information derived from network topology response time of the device during device discovery etc. However network device might not be able to discern between signal strength and or response time indications based on a difference in scale such as between adjacent apartments.

After narrowing a set of candidate devices user can be provided an opportunity to select a candidate device. In response to such a selection network device can be instructed to provide an indication of identity to user as described above. For instance device identity component can provide a sequence color pattern of flashing lights and or other forms of device identification recognizable by user . In addition if wireless signal strength was the only means of discovery and identification of network device then there could be a danger of eavesdropping. As a result identity component can facilitate generating a limited range signal such as a test page with a user recognizable pattern an ultra wideband signal or other RF local loop and or an audio or visual signal and the like to complete the association once user is in close proximity to the device.

Once user has identified the network device the network device can facilitate identifying the user. In this example user identity component can facilitate identifying user for example by requiring entry of a one time passphrase printed on a test page thus verifying user identity by proximity through intermediation by a portable device and or other forms of user identification recognizable by network device as described above. Once the network device has identified the correct user the association can be completed by establishing any remaining desired communications channels. In addition network device can perform a customized action as described above. For example upon sensing that one or more of the communication channels set up during the association is over an open wireless access point network device can prompt user to set up a strong administrative password on the network device suggest a more secure wireless access point configuration etc.

In addition network device can include a host processor that can be associated with a memory to facilitate storage of data and or instructions for performing functions associated with and incident to the disclosed subject matter as described herein. The host processor can be associated with a cryptographic component . In accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter cryptographic component can provide symmetric cryptographic tools and accelerators e.g. Twofish Blowfish AES TDES IDEA CAST5 RC4 etc. to facilitate encrypting and or decrypting data. Thus cryptographic component can facilitate securing data being written to stored in and or read from the memory transmitted to or received from a connected network and or creating a secure communication channel as part of a secure association of network device with a user to protected data can only be accessed by those entities authorized and or authenticated to do so. To the same ends cryptographic component can also provide asymmetric cryptographic accelerators and tools e.g. RSA Digital Signature Standard DSS and the like in addition to accelerators and tools e.g. Secure Hash Algorithm SHA and its variants such as for example SHA 0 SHA 1 SHA 224 SHA 256 SHA 384 and SHA 512 .

Network device can further include an authentication component that can solicit authentication data from a user or other device e.g. an operating system and or application software on behalf of user and upon receiving the proper authentication data so solicited can be employed individually and or in conjunction with information acquired and ascertained as a result of biometric modalities employed to facilitate associating network device with user . The authentication data can be in the form of a password e.g. a sequence of humanly cognizable characters a pass phrase e.g. a sequence of alphanumeric characters that can be similar to a typical password but is conventionally of greater length and contains non humanly cognizable characters in addition to humanly cognizable characters a pass code e.g. Personal Identification Number PIN and the like for example. Additionally and or alternatively public key infrastructure PKI data can also be employed by authentication component . PKI arrangements can provide for trusted third parties to vet and affirm entity identity through the use of public keys that typically can be certificates issued by trusted third parties. Such arrangements can enable entities to be authenticated to each other and to use information in certificates e.g. public keys and private keys session keys Traffic Encryption Keys TEKs cryptographic system specific keys and or other keys to encrypt and decrypt messages communicated between entities.

In addition to forms of determining user identity described above in connection with the authentication component can implement one or more machine implemented techniques to identify a user or other device e.g. an operating system and or application software on behalf of user by the user s unique physical and behavioral characteristics and attributes. Biometric modalities that can be employed can include for example face recognition wherein measurements of key points on an entity s face can provide a unique pattern that can be associated with the entity iris recognition that measures from the outer edge towards the pupil the patterns associated with the colored part of the eye the iris to detect unique features associated with an entity s iris and finger print identification that scans the corrugated ridges of skin that are non continuous and form a pattern that can provide distinguishing features to identify an entity.

Referring again to network device can also include a presentation component which can be associated with the host processor and which can facilitate associating network device with user . The presentation component can provide various types of user interfaces to facilitate interaction between a user and any component coupled to the host processor . In addition to providing one or more indications to facilitate location and identification of a network device of interest to user as described above presentation component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces structured and or customized menus and the like. For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present such results. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into the host processor .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a keyboard touchpad touch screen a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed to facilitate entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can than provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards of a computer and or displays e.g. black and white EGA or other video display unit of a standalone device such as an LCD display on a network printer with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

As depicted network device is described as a monolithic device. However it is to be appreciated that the various components and or the functionality provided thereby can be incorporated into the host processor or provided by other connected devices. Accordingly it is to be appreciated that more or less of the described functionality may be implemented combined and or distributed e.g. among network devices servers databases and the like according to context system design considerations and or marketing factors.

In view of the exemplary systems and devices described supra methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

In addition at a set of candidates can be presented for selection. For instance user can be presented with a set of provisionally suitable devices on a display device for selection according to the user desired task or function. As another example a set of candidates can be presented for selection by a software application or API that can facilitate automatic selection based on for example a user profile an inference based on previously associated devices and so on. As a further example a set of candidates can be a set of functional candidates e.g. a set of candidates based in part on desired device functionality such as one or more functions of a multi function device rather than a set of devices. Accordingly the set of functional candidates can include bundled functions such as two or more functions available from disparate devices e.g. a scanner function and a VOIP function which can be presented as substitutes for traditional functions e.g. the scanner function and a VOIP function in lieu of a fax function . Additionally the set of candidates can be narrowed based in part on a device map strength of a signal received from a device during device discovery response time of the device during device discovery information derived from network topology information derived from a previously associated device or information derived from a network analysis tool and the like.

At a device of interest can be identified and located based in part on an indication generated by the device of interest. In addition to the indications available from the device of interest described above with reference to the indication generated by the device of interest can include an indication based in part on a profile of user . For example a hearing impaired user can indicate a preference for visual indication whereas a sight impaired would not. Additionally as described above with reference to the identification and determining location of the device of interest can be mediated by a device associated with user . For example a cell phone associated with user can receive a signal pattern and so on that is intended to facilitate location and identification of the device of interest.

At the device of interest can be interacted with to facilitate device recognition of the user. For example as described above with reference to such interaction can include entering a passphrase performing a device recognizable gesture uttering a speech sample for voice recognition using a fingerprint reader and so on. Additionally as described above with reference to the interaction with the device can be mediated by a device associated with user . For example a cell phone associated with user can receive a voice sample or other signal associated with the user and transfer this signal to the device of interest e.g. via a Bluetooth link a WLAN link and so on in the event that a device of interest cannot directly receive a voice sample e.g. a device lacking a microphone for recognition and identification of user .

At at least one communication channel with the device of interest can be created based in part on identifying the device of interest and device recognition of the user. For example as described above with reference to one or more communication channels can be established in the discovery location and or identification of the device of interest. In addition a communication channel can be established based on device recognition of user . Moreover a secure communication channel with the device of interest can be established based on for example authentication credentials of user the nature of the association and so on.

Additionally methodology can further comprise performing a customized action not shown for a device of interest associated with user . For example in addition to that described above with reference to a customized action can be performed based in part on a proximity of the user with the device of interest a user profile a device usage history user local selections a device inventory or audit the nature of the communication channel and or user authentication credentials. For example such customized action can include elevating the priority of a task or releasing a secure task based on recognition of the user prompting a user to confirm a provisional location of a newly associated device for auditing and inventory purposes presenting a customized menu based on a user profile and so on. As a further example based in part on cached information about a previous association with a device a determination can be made or inferred that a device has moved. For instance if an attempt to remake an association based on cached information fails to have the same connection characteristics e.g. signal strength network latency response time during device discovery etc. the device association has changed relative to some threshold and or a complete failure to re establish the cached association could facilitate initiating a new discovery step with or without user intervention and or notification.

In addition at at least one indication can be provided to facilitate determining physical location and device identification in response to receiving a device selection notification on behalf of the user. In addition to that described above with reference to such indications can include flashing lights in a pattern sequence and or color e.g. whether or not in the visible spectrum playing a sound e.g. audible or inaudible emitting RF energy e.g. in the form of a beacon or otherwise and so on. As described above the recognition of the indication can be facilitated with or without a mediating device that is associated with user .

At the network device can recognize that the user is in the proximity of the network device. As described above with reference to such interaction can include entering a passphrase performing a device recognizable gesture uttering a speech sample for voice recognition using a fingerprint reader and so on. Additionally as described above with reference to the interaction with the device can be mediated by a device associated with user such as by a cell phone associated with user e.g. that receives a voice sample or other signal associated with the user and transfer this signal to the device of interest for user identification e.g. via a Bluetooth link a WLAN link and so on . As a result even for devices of interest that cannot directly receive a voice sample e.g. a device lacking a microphone methodology facilitates identification and recognition of user .

At a communication channel can be established with the user based in part on recognizing that the user is in the proximity of the network device. As described above with reference to one or more communication channels can be established in the discovery location and or identification of a device of interest. In addition a communication channel can be established based on device recognition that user is in the proximity of the device. Moreover a secure communication channel with the device of interest can be established based on for example the authority of user to associate with the network device the nature of the association and so on.

Additionally methodology can further comprise performing a customized action not shown for a device of interest associated with user . As described above with reference to a customized action can be performed based in part on a proximity of the user with the device of interest a user profile a device usage history cached device association information user local selections a device inventory or audit the nature of the communication channel and or user authentication credentials. For example such customized action can include elevating the priority of a task or releasing a secure task based on recognition of the user prompting a user to confirm a provisional location of a newly associated device for auditing and inventory purposes presenting a customized menu based on a user profile and so on.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the disclosed subject matter pertains to any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes which can be used in connection with associating network devices with users in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. The disclosed subject matter can apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage. The disclosed subject matter can also be applied to standalone computing devices having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities for generating receiving and transmitting information in connection with remote or local services and processes.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices can have applications objects or resources that implicate the systems and methods that facilitate associating network devices with users according to the disclosed subject matter.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as can be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment can alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. any of which can employ a variety of wired and wireless services software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures can be used for exemplary communications made incident to associating network devices with users according to the designs of the disclosed subject matter.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that can each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances may use power lines for connectivity. Data Services can enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11B or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic can enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and can be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data can enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that emerge or already have emerged as protocol standards can be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that can be connected to the outside world by way of a wide area network such as the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently any of the computing devices of the disclosed subject matter may share and communicate data in any existing manner and no one way described in the embodiments herein is intended to be limiting.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system with which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as an example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. maintain the data that is then replicated to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can be processing data or requesting services or tasks that implicate the methods that facilitate associating network devices with users in accordance with the disclosed subject matter.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques that facilitate associating network devices with users of the disclosed subject matter can be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s can be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with server s in communication with client computer s via a network bus in which the disclosed subject matter can be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which can be a LAN WAN intranet GSM network the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. It is thus contemplated that the disclosed subject matter can apply to any computing device in connection with which it is desirable to associate one or more network devices with one or more users according to the disclosed subject matter.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. can also serve as clients etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned communications can be wired or wireless or a combination where appropriate. Client devices etc. may or may not communicate via communications network bus and can have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there may or may not be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. can be equipped with various application program modules or objects etc. and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams can be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams can be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. can be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed or saved according to the disclosed subject matter. Thus the disclosed subject matter can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that can interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

As mentioned the disclosed subject matter applies to any device wherein it can be desirable to associate one or more network devices with one or more users. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the disclosed subject matter i.e. anywhere that a device can associate with one or more users or otherwise receive process or store data incident to associating network devices with users. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction. Thus the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in an environment of networked hosted services in which very little or minimal client resources are implicated e.g. a networked environment in which the client device serves merely as an interface to the network bus such as an object placed in an appliance.

Although not required the disclosed subject matter can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of the disclosed subject matter. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosed subject matter can be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing the disclosed subject matter includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface of input or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

Various distributed computing frameworks have been and are being developed in light of the convergence of personal computing and the Internet. Individuals and business users alike are provided with a seamlessly interoperable and Web enabled interface for applications and computing devices making computing activities increasingly Web browser or network oriented.

For example MICROSOFT s managed code platform i.e. .NET includes servers building block services such as Web based data storage and downloadable device software. Generally speaking the .NET platform provides 1 the ability to make the entire range of computing devices work together and to have user information automatically updated and synchronized on all of them 2 increased interactive capability for Web pages enabled by greater use of XML rather than HTML 3 online services that feature customized access and delivery of products and services to the user from a central starting point for the management of various applications such as e mail for example or software such as Office .NET 4 centralized data storage which increases efficiency and ease of access to information as well as synchronization of information among users and devices 5 the ability to integrate various communications media such as e mail faxes and telephones 6 for developers the ability to create reusable modules thereby increasing productivity and reducing the number of programming errors and 7 many other cross platform and language integration features as well.

While some exemplary embodiments herein are described in connection with software such as an application programming interface API residing on a computing device one or more portions of the disclosed subject matter can also be implemented via an operating system or a middle man object a control object hardware firmware intermediate language instructions or objects etc. such that the methods that facilitate associating network devices with users in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be included in supported in or accessed via all of the languages and services enabled by managed code such as .NET code and in other distributed computing frameworks as well.

There are multiple ways of implementing the disclosed subject matter e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the methods that facilitate associating network devices with users and related systems and devices of the disclosed subject matter. The disclosed subject matter contemplates use from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that facilitates associating one or more network devices with one or more users in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. Thus various implementations of the disclosed subject matter described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts can be applied to any computing device or system in which it is desirable to associate one or more network devices with one or more users. For instance the methods that facilitate associating one or more network devices with one or more users according to the disclosed subject matter can be applied to the operating system of a computing device provided as a separate object on the device as part of another object as a reusable control as a downloadable object from a server as a middle man between a device or object and the network as a distributed object as hardware in memory a combination of any of the foregoing etc. While exemplary programming languages names and examples are chosen herein as representative of various choices these languages names and examples are not intended to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous ways of providing object code and nomenclature that achieves the same similar or equivalent functionality achieved by the various embodiments of the disclosed subject matter.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein can be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the methods that facilitate associating one or more network devices with one or more users according to the disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of a data processing API reusable controls or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The methods and apparatus of the disclosed subject matter may also be practiced via communications embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer etc. the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosed subject matter. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to invoke the functionality of the disclosed subject matter. Additionally any storage techniques used in connection with the disclosed subject matter may invariably be a combination of hardware and software.

Furthermore portions of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer or processor based device to implement aspects detailed herein. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product where used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it is known that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN .

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems and methods can include or consist of artificial intelligence or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

While the disclosed subject matter has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the disclosed subject matter without deviating therefrom. For example while exemplary network environments of the disclosed subject matter are described in the context of a networked environment such as a peer to peer networked environment one skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed subject matter is not limited thereto and that the methods as described in the present application can apply to any computing device or environment such as a gaming console handheld computer portable computer etc. whether wired or wireless and can be applied to any number of such computing devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Furthermore it should be emphasized that a variety of computer platforms including handheld device operating systems and other application specific operating systems are contemplated especially as the number of wireless networked devices continues to proliferate.

While exemplary embodiments refer to utilizing the disclosed subject matter in the context of particular programming language constructs the disclosed subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in any suitable language to facilitate associating one or more network devices with one or more users and related methods. Still further the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage can similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

