---

title: Interactive information processing and delivery system and methods thereof
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems and methods for information processing and delivery to a selected group of network-connected display devices. In one embodiment of the invention, an information processing and delivery method comprises receiving a request from one of a plurality of users in which the request includes a content data, a display identifier and a user identifier. The method also comprises validating the content data and the display identifier, and upon successful validation, transmitting the content data through an Internet Protocol (IP) based network to at least one display device associated with the display identifier for display thereon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990113&OS=08990113&RS=08990113
owner: 
number: 08990113
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080609
---
Embodiments of the invention generally relate to systems and methods for information processing and delivery to a selected group of network connected display devices.

Traditionally out of home advertising is typically conveyed via different advertising channels the most common being using large posters painted or hung on the sides of buildings or even erecting free standing billboards above the buildings. They provide an extremely attractive way to grab the attention of viewers who are in the proximity of the buildings. In addition recent advances in technology have created new advertising channels to promote products and services. One example is the kiosk type billboards hereinafter referred to as billboards typically located in retail outlets such as shopping malls airports or hotel lobbies. Examples of such billboards include scrolling billboards and digital signage. The billboards typically loop through a series of poster type advertisements promoting movies products and or retail outlets located in the vicinity of the billboards to induce specific customer behavior.

The billboards usually operate by executing a predetermined advertising cycle in which each advertisement is displayed for a predetermined time period before the billboards automatically cycle to display the next advertisement in the loop. Contents of the billboards are changed and updated on a frequent basis by manually replacing the roll of printed advertisements that provides the loop or modifying the electronic content of the advertisements to be displayed by the digital signage. Thus it is evident that system management problems associated with use of the billboards exist due to the tedious efforts required to periodically update the contents of the billboards. In addition the billboards normally do not provide viewers with means for interaction within the context of the displayed advertisements. Furthermore sale of advertising space and creation of an effective advertising campaign within a given budget in such a system are also made complicated due to the distributed deployment nature of the billboards.

Embodiments of the invention disclosed herein provide information processing and delivery of various types of contents including but not limited to solicitation based contents such as advertisements and information based contents such as event announcements.

In one embodiment of the invention an information processing and delivery method comprises receiving a request from one of a plurality of users in which the request includes a content data a display identifier and a user identifier. The method also comprises validating the content data and the display identifier and upon successful validation transmitting the content data through an Internet Protocol IP based network to at least one display device associated with the display identifier for display thereon. A system for implementing the above method may comprise an input processing module a content processing module and a content delivery module.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments. In the drawings like reference numerals refer to like elements or functionalities throughout the several presented views.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second and etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Furthermore each of the display devices A B C . . . N may also include provisions for enabling one or more interactive features that allow viewers to obtain more information on the contents being displayed. For example a viewer can obtain more information on products promoted in an advertisement message displayed on the display devices A B C . . . N download incentives related to the products provide information about the viewers themselves or engage in other related interactive activities. Examples of the interactive features include but are not limited to email addresses fax numbers website addresses contact number for sending short message service SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS messages.

The information processing and delivery system as depicted in comprises the following components a communications interface manager i.e. an input processing module a content processor i.e. a content processing module a content dispatcher i.e. a content delivery module and a transaction manager i.e. a transaction processing module . The communications interface manager the content processor the content dispatcher and the transaction manager may be implemented as software modules executed on separate computer hardware such as specialized rack based systems i.e. blade servers . In certain embodiments the communications interface manager the content processor the content dispatcher and the transaction manager are each implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a combination of hardware and software or other suitable configurations. In yet other embodiments the communications interface manager the content processor the content dispatcher and the transaction manager may be combined as a single module or separated into multiple additional modules.

As depicted in the communications interface manager serves as a communication gateway to facilitate exchange of information between the information processing and delivery system and the users via input devices . Examples of the input devices include but are not limited to a cellular phone a fax machine a computer and a mobile computing device . Mobile computing devices may include PDAs Smartphones Tablet PCs mobile Internet devices MIDs and ultra mobile PCs UMPCs . The communications interface manager receive the requests from the input devices using a mixture digital and analog communication protocols including but not limited to short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS fax email and the Internet Protocol IP . The communications interface manager establishes communication with the input devices through use of software protocol plugins not shown such as a fax plugin an email plugin or a MMS plugin. More specifically the communications interface manager is designed to accept and employ the protocol plugins in a modularized manner. The protocol plugins may be written using an application programming interface API that is either proprietary or open source in nature. For instance in situations where the information processing and delivery system is unable to communicate with a device via a new communication protocol a protocol plugin for the new communication protocol may be written using the API. The information processing and delivery system then uses the new protocol plugin to communicate with the device thereafter.

The requests received via the input devices include a content data a display identifier and a user identifier. The user identifier allows identification of a user of the input device for various purposes including but not limited to authenticating the user identity billing the user for usage of services and compiling usage volume for loyalty or reward schemes. Depending on the type of input device being used for transmitting the request the user identifier may be a cellular phone number a subscriber identity module SIM card number a landline telephone number an IP address an email address or a suitable device identification number. However it is to be understood that other forms of user identification may also be envisaged.

In an exemplary embodiment the communications interface manager first authenticates a user who sends the request to the information processing and delivery system . The user may be a member of the public or a merchant who wishes to advertise his goods services offerings. More particularly the communications interface manager ascertains whether the user has an access right to the information processing and delivery system by validating the user identifier against a predetermined database. The database may contain records of user identifiers corresponding to users who are authorized to access or use the information processing and delivery system . The database may be compiled by a system administrator of the information processing and delivery system using information available from commercial sources. Alternatively the database may be acquired from service providers such as internet telecommunication service providers. Yet alternatively validation of the user identity may be performed using multiple mixed databases from various different sources. If validation of the user identifier is successful i.e. the user has an access right or if validation of the user identifier is not required i.e. the user authentication feature is not enabled the content processor will proceed to validate the content data and display identifier. Conversely if validation of the user identifier is unsuccessful i.e. the user does not have an access right the request is discarded and an error message may be generated and recorded by a message logging module refer to . The user may then be appropriately notified.

In relation to validation of the content data the content processor examines the quality of the content data. In particular the content data is assessed against one or more predetermined assessment criteria including but not limited to acceptability for public viewing relevance to target viewers having access to the display devices A B C . . . N as identified in the request. The content data may be solicitation based e.g. advertisements promotional materials or information based e.g. event announcements alerts circulars or a combination of both. Other examples of content data include content pages e.g. web pages search results emails instant messaging IM messages audio video content or files e.g. television programming or other files and data of definable concepts. It is to be appreciated that examples of content data are not limited to the above and other types of content data may be envisaged. If the content processor ascertains the content quality to be unacceptable in view of the assessment criteria the request is discarded by the information processing and delivery system and an error message may be generated and recorded by the message logging module . The user may also be appropriately notified. However if the content quality is ascertained as being acceptable the content processor will then proceed to validate the display identifier.

In relation to validation of the display identifier the content processor checks for the presence of a display identifier in the request. The display identifier may be in the form of IP addresses uniquely assigned to each of the display devices A B C . . . N or in other easy to remember formats as well known in the art. If the content processor ascertains that the display identifier is not present in the request or is invalid i.e. the display identifier or the display device does not exist the request is discarded and an error message may be generated and recorded by the message logging module . The user may also be appropriately notified.

If the validation of the display identifier is successful the content processor next validates the category type or file type of the content data against the display identifier. The category type may be one of text static graphic animated graphic video audio electronically downloadable incentives or any combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the content processor may ascertain the category type of the content data and determine whether the ascertained category type of the content data is acceptable by the identified display device for display thereon. As an illustration if a request contains a content data of video format type and the display device corresponding to the display identifier as indicated in the request does not accept video contents the validation would be unsuccessful.

Optionally the content processor may also adapt the content data to the aspect ratios of the display devices A B C . . . N. This is to ensure the content data would be displayed in the correct aspect ratio on the display devices A B C . . . N for clear viewing. The aspect ratio of an image is defined to be the width divided by the height of the image. Two commonly used aspect ratios for video graphic displays are 4 3 i.e. display standards for television and computer monitors and 16 9 i.e. high definition television HDTV standards . Alternatively the aspect ratios may be specified using image resolutions e.g. an image for HDTV display is required to have an image size of 1920 pixels by 1080 pixels according to the prevailing HDTV standards . Accordingly the image sizes for other formats may be specified in such similar formats. Separately still images are also definable using aspect ratios such as 4 3 3 2 or 7 5.

If all the foregoing validation steps are successful the content processor transmits the request to the content dispatcher . However if any of the validation steps is unsuccessful the request is discarded by the information processing and delivery system and an error message may be generated and recorded by the message logging module . The user may also be appropriately notified of the error.

Upon successful validation of the display identifier and the category type the content processor sends the request or the content data to the content dispatcher . If the request is sent the content dispatcher may extract the content data from the request and sends the content data to the display devices A B C . . . N as specified by the display identifier in the request. The content dispatcher may comprise a sub module known as the content display designer not shown . The content display designer enables dynamic scheduling of the display sequence of the content data from various requests based on display attributes such as duration and a frequency of displaying the content data. The display attributes may be defined by the user or the administrator of the information processing and delivery system . Further on each of the display devices A B C . . . N a sub module known as the content display player not shown may be installed. Notably the content displayer player and the content dispatcher may be equipped with a common internal communication protocol to enable them to establish communication with each other to facilitate the sending of requests and other instructions. The content dispatcher then transmits the requests to the content display players of the respective display devices A B C . . . N via the communications network . Alternatively only the content data may be media streamed to the respective display devices A B C . . . N through the communications network . Optionally the content dispatcher may also encrypt the request before transmitting it to the display devices A B C . . . N.

It is to be appreciated that a time period between receiving a request by the communication interface manager and transmitting the request by the content dispatcher to the respective display devices A B C . . . N is relatively short and hence the transmission may considered to be executed in real time.

The transaction manager enables an administrator to process and record transactions of the users of the information processing and delivery system . More specifically the transaction manager may generate a billing record upon successful processing and delivery of a request. The billing record is to be associated with the user identifier. The billing record may include various details such as the duration of display of the content data the number of display devices A B C . . . N the content data was displayed on the total payment required the points earned for a reward or loyalty scheme and the like. In addition the transaction manager may also send payment reminders to the users to settle outstanding bills when payment deadlines approach. Optionally the billing record may include details on costs incurred by the users to their respective Internet mobile service providers for use of the services provided thereby when the users use their input devices . In certain embodiments the transaction manager may generate transaction records associated with the user identifiers for compiling usage records of the users for purposes such as implementing a related loyalty or rewarding scheme. In addition the transaction manager may also provide the administrator with administrative functions for managing the information processing and delivery system . For example the transaction manager may contain means for allowing the billing record and or transaction records to be transmitted to the users on a periodic basis or upon successful delivery and processing of each request.

Referring to in which a block diagram of the system architecture of the information processing and delivery system is depicted the information processing and delivery system comprises various modules and databases for providing functionalities for processing the requests and displaying of content data. As exemplified in the information processing and delivery system comprises the following modules an interface and communications module an authentication module a content verification module a storage module a content adaptation module a scheduler module a video and audio output module a transaction module an administrative module the message logging module and an inter communications module . The information processing and delivery system is provided with access to a database which may contain records of user identifiers pre authorized for access to the information processing and delivery system . It is to be appreciated that each module may be configured as a software application executed on computer hardware. Optionally the modules may be implemented as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or a combination of hardware and software or other suitable configuration. Moreover the modules may be combined or separated into multiple additional modules.

The interface and communications module provides a communication link between the information processing and delivery system and the input devices . For example the interface and communications module may be a network interface card and the corresponding device drivers to enable bi directional communication. Further the interface and communications module may also enable an administrator of the information processing and delivery system to establish communication therewith for performing system management operations such as maintenance software upgrades and the like. The interface and communications module may also send the requests over the communications network to the display devices A B C . . . N after the requests have been processed. Optionally the interface and communications module may feed the requests into an encryption module not shown to be encrypted before sending the requests to the display devices A B C . . . N. Decryption of the encrypted requests may be performed by the display devices A B C . . . N upon receipt before the content data is extracted for display thereon.

The authentication module provides the required functionalities for the information processing and delivery system to authenticate a user transmitting a request to the information processing and delivery system . The authentication module may access the database for validating user identities and may include implementing any security authentication protocol as known in the art for such purposes. Separately the database may be pre compiled by the administrator or acquired from other commercial sources. In addition results of the authentication may be generated by the authentication module and recorded by the message logging module to be stored in the storage module . The storage module may be a computer hard disk a solid state hard disk or any recording medium that allows record and retrieval of digital information.

The content verification module verifies the content data of the requests based on the attributes. Further the content verification module comprises content recognition algorithms that process the requests to facilitate recognition and classification of the requests according to their content data type. In addition the content verification module also accepts content data of any file formats that are known in the art.

Once the content data has been processed by the content verification module the content data is then sent to the content adaptation module in which the content data is adapted accordingly depending on the display devices A B C . . . N on which the content data is to be displayed. Hence the content adaptation module comprises video and image adaptation algorithms that will enable manipulation such as shrinking or enlarging of the content data while simultaneously maintaining the correct aspect ratio for the content data. Notably the content data is adapted according to the actual area of a section of the display screen of the display device on which the content data is to be displayed subsequently.

Based on the volume or number of requests received by the information processing and delivery system and the display identifiers as indicated in the requests the scheduler module may devise an appropriate display schedule. The display schedule along with the content data to be displayed are sent to one or more of the display devices A B C . . . N by the interface and communications module over the communications network .

The video and audio output module may output content data such as still or moving video images text or animated graphics on an integral display screen of each of the display devices A B C . . . N. The display screen may comprise a LCD display screen a plasma display screen a projection display screen a holographic type display or an OLED screen. Further the video and audio output module may also comprise one or more audio loudspeaker devices that output audio including speech music and or other sound effects that may or may not be correlated to the output of the video and audio output module .

The transaction module monitors and records any transactions of the users who use the information processing and delivery system and provides billing services such as generating and forwarding billing invoices to the users. Moreover the transaction module allows the administrator of the information processing and delivery system to specify billing terms to be included in the billing invoices for example the duration of display of the content data the number of display devices A B C . . . N the content data was displayed on the total payment required the points earned for a rewarding scheme and the like. Further the transaction module may also optionally generate transaction records associated with the user identifiers for compiling usage records of the users. In addition the transaction module may also optionally send payment reminders to the users on outstanding bills when payment deadlines approach.

The administrative module comprises essential administrative functions for the administrator to manage the information processing and delivery system . The administrative functions may include status check on number of users logged into the information processing and delivery system remote powering on and off software updates performance monitoring statics gathering setting access control and any other relevant administrative functions. Yet additionally the administrative module may also provide an interface such as a web based interface for access to the administrative functions.

The inter communications module communicates and relays information such as the requests and content data between the different modules of the information processing and delivery system . The inter communications module may preferably adopt a proprietary transport protocol that is specifically customized for communicating information between the various modules illustrated in . In addition the inter communications module may also comprise a security sub module not shown for encrypting the information such that the information remains secure during transit. Further the inter communications module may also deliver the content data to the display devices A B C . . . N after the requests have been processed by the various modules.

The video display zone may be allocated for the display and playback of any multimedia video clips. The text display zones A B may be located at the top and bottom sections of the display screen . Text displayed in the text display zones A B may scroll from the left to right of the display screen and in this way the text display zones A B may be continuously refreshed and updated with newer content data. The image display zone on the other hand may display static images while the animated graphics display zone may display animated graphics such as moving jpeg images. It is to be appreciated that the screen layout in is not construed to be limited to the illustrated layout. In certain embodiments the display zones in the display screen are dynamically reconfigurable by the administrator during operation of the information processing and delivery system . In other embodiments the display screen may be divided into display zones of other different configurations or may even be dedicated to displaying only content data of a single specific category type.

Referring to a flow diagram of an information processing and delivery method according to one embodiment of the invention is depicted. The method begins when the information processing and delivery system receives a request from a user via an input device block . The user may be a member of the public or a merchant who wishes to advertise his goods services offerings. The request includes a content data specified by the user a display identifier to indicate the display devices A B C . . . N for displaying the content data and a user identifier. Upon receipt of the request authentication of the user may be performed block . In this respect a user identifier is validated against one or more databases to ascertain whether the user identifier has an access right to the information processing and delivery system . Upon successful authentication of the user identifier a transaction confirmation code may optionally be generated and sent to the user. Next the quality of the content data is validated against pre determined assessment criteria block . This may involve assessing whether the content data is suitable for display in a public setting for viewing. The assessment of the content data may be automated using software or manually performed by the administrators. It is to be understood that other types of assessment criteria may be applicable.

The method then proceeds to validate the display identifier block to ascertain whether the specified display identifier of the display devices A B C . . . N exists. Upon successful validation of the display identifier the method may then proceed to validate the category type of the content data against the display identifier block . More particularly the category type is checked for compatibility with the display identifier. The category type may be first ascertained before being checked against the display identifier. As described in the foregoing paragraphs a display device may accept and display content data of selected file formats or category types. If the category type of a content data in a request matches the one of the formats acceptable by the specified display devices A B C . . . N validation of the category type is considered successful.

If validations of the user identifier content data display identifier and category type are successful the method then proceeds to transmit the request or the content data to the respective display devices A B C . . . N to be displayed thereon block . The corresponding display attributes e.g. duration and frequency may be specified by the user or the administrator of the information processing and delivery system . If any of the validation fails the method may terminate without further transmitting the request to the respective display devices A B C . . . N. The user may then be appropriately notified.

Upon transmitting the request to the respective display devices A B C . . . N a transaction record and or billing record may be generated which is to be associated with the user identifier block . Optionally payment reminders may be sent to the user to settle outstanding payments when payment deadlines approach.

In the above described method it is to be understood that authentication of the user identifier block may be optional and may be determined as such by an administrator of the information processing and delivery system .

In the above described method it is to be understood that validation of the category type of the content data block may be optional if the display devices A B C . . . N accepts all types of file formats or category types.

Referring to a flow diagram of an information processing and delivery method according to another embodiment of the invention is depicted. A first content data e.g. an advertisement may be displayed on one or more display devices A B C . . . N block . The first content data may have been pre processed using the method of before being displayed. The first content data is preferably solicitation based to allow viewers i.e. the users to respond. The first content data may include one or more interactive features to allow the viewers to respond to the first content data. Examples of the interactive features include but are not limited to email addresses fax numbers website addresses contact number for sending short message service SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS messages.

A viewer may respond to the first content data by sending a request to the information processing and delivery system . The method may then proceed to receive the request from the viewer via one of the interactive features block . In this embodiment the request may include a second content data and a display identifier. Upon receipt of the request a transaction confirmation code may optionally be generated and sent to the viewer. The method then proceeds to validate the second content data block similar to block validate the display identifier block similar to block validate the category type of the second content data against the display identifier block similar to block transmit the request to display devices A B C . . . N specified by the display identifier for display block similar block and generate a transaction record block similar to block . The various processes of the blocks to of are similar to the blocks to of respectively as described in the foregoing paragraphs.

In the afore described method of the request may also include a user identifier and the method may further include authenticating a user identifier prior progressing to the various validating processes of the blocks to . Alternatively authenticating the user identifier may be optional and may be determined as such by the administrator of the information processing and delivery system .

In the afore described method of it is further understood that the validation of the category type of the content data block may be optional if the display devices A B C . . . N accepts all types of file formats or category types.

In the aforementioned methods and the various embodiments of the invention it is to be understood that modifications may be made without departing from the inventive concept of the invention. For example the afore described sequences of validating the content data the display identifier and the category type of the content data may be modified or interchanged. Similarly authentication of a user may be performed at other stages in the afore described methods .

Further in accordance to yet another embodiment of the invention a flow diagram of an information processing and delivery method is shown in . Firstly a content data e.g. an advertisement may be displayed on one or more display devices A B C . . . N block . The content data may have been pre processed using the method of before being displayed. The content data may be sent by a merchant who wishes to advertise his goods and or services. In addition the content data is preferably solicitation based to allow viewers i.e. the users to respond. Notably to enable the viewers to respond to the content data the content data may include one or more interactive features. For instance the interactive features may include but are not limited to email addresses fax numbers website addresses contact number for sending short message service SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS messages.

A viewer may respond to the content data by sending a request to the information processing and delivery system . The method may then proceed to receive the request from the viewer via one of the interactive features where the request may include a user identifier block . In this embodiment validations for the content data the display identifier and the category type of the content data may not be required unlike in the foregoing methods . Hence once the request is received by the information processing and delivery system a transaction confirmation code may optionally be generated and sent to the viewer block . The request may be processed by the information processing and delivery system such as by transmitting the request to a transaction server or a processor based device maintained or designated by the merchant who first initiated the display of the content data. Subsequently a transaction record and or billing record may be generated which is to be associated with the user identifier block . Optionally payment reminders may also be sent to the viewer to settle outstanding payments when payment deadlines approach. Optionally the user identifier may be validated to determine if the viewer has an access right to the information processing and delivery system after the user request is received thereby.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

