---

title: System and method for a WPAN firewall
abstract: Systems and methodologies for implementing Wireless Personal Area Network (WPAN) security are provided herein. As disclosed herein, firewall functionality can be implemented for a WPAN-capable device to control access to resources of the device over a WPAN. In one example, a WPAN protocol can be extended to include low-level access control measures that enable analysis of communication requests to and/or from a device prior to acting on the requests. As described herein, a WPAN firewall associated with a device can be configured to block, monitor, and/or log respective resource accesses to and/or from a WPAN. WPAN firewall functionality as described herein can be configured using mechanisms such as an Application Programming Interface (API) and/or a user control interface. Additionally, lateral regulation of security policies for a WPAN and one or more other networks utilized by a device can be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08156544&OS=08156544&RS=08156544
owner: Symbol Technologies, Inc.
number: 08156544
owner_city: Holtsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080820
---
The subject disclosure relates generally to wireless networking and more particularly to techniques for data security for a wireless personal area network.

As the global demand for mobile computing devices increases an increasing amount of research has been conducted with regard to techniques for improving communication between portable devices. For example advances in wireless communication technology have enabled the implementation and use of Wireless Personal Area Networks WPANs which allow a small number of devices e.g. up to 8 devices located in close proximity to one other to engage in high data rate wireless communication.

Various standards such as Bluetooth have been adopted or proposed for WPAN communication. However these WPAN implementations have a number of security shortcomings. For example if an attacker is able to successfully establish a WPAN connection with a target device the WPAN generally provides no robust mechanism to prevent the attacker from accessing and obtaining sensitive information stored on the target device and or from maliciously utilizing WPAN services via the target device. In addition conventional WPAN implementations generally do not provide measures to prevent a non owner of a device with physical access to the device such as an individual operator of a corporately owned device or a possessor of a stolen device from establishing a WPAN with another device and transferring sensitive information out of the device over the WPAN or otherwise utilizing services of the established WPAN in an unauthorized manner. As a result of at least these security shortcomings of WPAN implementations and their public notoriety many entities that could potentially benefit from the use of WPANs have been reluctant to adopt them. Accordingly there is a need for network security techniques that mitigate at least the above shortcomings.

The following presents a simplified summary of the claimed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Systems and methodologies are provided herein that facilitate improved WPAN security. More particularly various aspects described herein facilitate the implementation of firewall functionality for a WPAN capable device in order to control access to resources of the device over one or more WPANs associated with the device. For example a WPAN protocol utilized by the device can be extended to include low level access control measures which enable analysis of communication requests to and or from the device prior to the device acting on the requests. In one example an allowed set of accesses for a WPAN enabled device can be defined such that a firewall associated with the device blocks all accesses to and or from a WPAN that do not fall within the allowed set. Additionally and or alternatively a firewall as described herein can monitor and log activity of a device over a WPAN. Logged WPAN activity can then be used to obtain information relating to attacking devices to monitor usage of the device and or for other uses.

In accordance with one aspect WPAN firewall functionality can be utilized to control both incoming requests from a WPAN connected device as well as outgoing requests for communication over a WPAN originating from the device. Accordingly firewall functionality as provided herein can be additionally used to monitor or restrict activities of persons with physical access to a device. In accordance with another aspect a WPAN firewall as described herein can be configured by various means such as via a user control interface or an Application Programming Interface API . In one example API firewall control can be implemented to restrict the ability of physical users of a device from modifying parameters of a firewall implemented on the device. Additionally various aspects described herein can be utilized to laterally regulate security policies for a WPAN and one or more other networks utilized by a device such as a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN or a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN .

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the claimed subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the claimed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of a system for securing a device connected to a wireless network in accordance with various aspects described herein. In one example system can include devices and which can communicate over a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN . It is to be appreciated that devices and or can be any suitable device of communicating over WPAN such as a mobile telephone handset and or headset a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a barcode scanner a desktop or laptop computer and or any other suitable fixed or mobile device. In addition it should be appreciated that WPAN can be based on for example a standard provided by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.15 working group such as the IEEE 802.15.1 standard e.g. Bluetooth and or any other suitable networking standard. Further while system illustrates only two devices and any suitable number of devices can engage in communication over WPAN .

In another example a device in system can have various system resources associated therewith which can be utilized for communication over WPAN and or other operation of the device . For example system resources can include data files programs communication services or profiles e.g. File Transfer Protocol FTP Object Exchange OBEX etc. contact information e.g. names addresses telephone numbers etc. and the like.

In accordance with one aspect devices and or utilizing a WPAN can employ one or more conventional basic security features for communication over the WPAN . For example devices and or can utilize basic device authentication upon connecting to each other and or to WPAN . Using basic authentication a device can for example provide a message to a user and or prompt for user approval upon detecting that another device wishes to connect to the device over a WPAN. Other security measures such as requiring a Personal Identification Number PIN exchange between device prior to allowing a connection to be established therebetween over a WPAN can additionally and or alternatively be implemented. In addition devices and or can utilize active pairing wherein a set of identified devices is given connection priority over unidentified devices. However these conventional security measures are often provided as an optional feature on WPAN capable devices and as a result many users opt not to use these features either out of prevention of perceived inconvenience and or a lack of understanding of the security risks presented by not utilizing them. Further such basic security measures may not be operable to prevent connections from all attackers who wish to authenticate with a device under false pretenses intercept a network passkey or otherwise establish a connection with a device over a WPAN despite the presence of security measures.

Due to the nature of conventional WPAN communication once a connecting device has established a connection over a WPAN to a target device the connecting device is generally provided with full access to all resources of the target device. Traditionally there has been no robust mechanism by which system resources of a device can be protected in the context of an existing connection over a WPAN to another device . As a result concern over these and other security implications have chilled the implementation of WPAN technology among individuals and organizations that would otherwise benefit from such technology.

Thus in accordance with one aspect a device operating in system can include a security component which can be utilized to secure system resources of the device upon connection to another device via a WPAN . In one example the security component can act as a firewall between an associated device and a WPAN to block and or monitor various incoming and or outgoing accesses to system resources based on preconfigured criteria. As the security component can be utilized to control access to system resources of an associated device at another device connected to the associated device over a WPAN it can be appreciated that the security component can mitigate the security shortcomings of traditional WPAN implementations.

In accordance with another aspect the security component can be configured in various manners to facilitate flexible access control to associated system resources . For example an Application Programming Interface API and or a user control interface can be provided to allow an owner of a device associated with the security component to control the operation of the security component . Additionally and or alternatively mechanisms can be provided by which operation of the security component can be configured to match the operation of one or more other security measures provided at an associated device for other network connections utilized by the device such as a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN connection and or a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN connection.

Turning to a system for securing system resources in accordance with various aspects is illustrated. As described above with respect to system system resources can include one or more files services information relating to contacts and or any other appropriate resources for communication and or other functionality of an associated network capable device. As illustrates system can additionally include a security component which can protect associated system resources against unauthorized uses over a WPAN.

In one example the security component can manage both inbound and outbound communication requests involving system resources in order to regulate inbound requests for the system resources from WPAN connected devices as well as outbound transfers of the system resources from the device on which they are stored over a WPAN. Accordingly an owner of a device having sensitive information stored thereon can prevent non owners of the device having physical access to the device from transferring the sensitive information from the device over a WPAN. Examples of such non owner users can include but are not limited to a possessor of a lost or stolen device a user of a corporately owned and or fleet owned device or the like.

In accordance with one aspect the security component can include an access control component that analyzes requests for system resources and allows or blocks respective requests based on one or more predetermined criteria. Criteria utilized by the access control component can include for example predefined sets of allowed and or denied communication profiles protocols device addresses and or any other suitable criteria. By way of specific example the access control component can analyze a set of provided communication requests and deny or block requests involving the transfer of system resources over a WPAN using FTP. As another specific example the access control component can be configured to allow incoming requests for system resources from only a corporate server that manages a fleet of devices to which a device associated with the system resources belongs.

In accordance with another aspect the security component can additionally and or alternatively include a monitoring component that passively monitors incoming and or outgoing communication requests involving associated system resources in order to obtain information relating to the respective requests. In one example one or more criteria can be defined to enable the monitoring component to monitor incoming and or outgoing requests over a WPAN involving associated system resources based on the defined criteria. These criteria can include for example a set of communication profiles protocols and or device addresses to be monitored and or any other suitable criteria. Alternatively the monitoring component can be configured to monitor all requests involving associated system resources . This can be done for example to compile statistics relating to the operation of a device on which the system resources are stored. Compiled statistics can then be utilized to perform power optimization for a device to examine efficiency of a device to monitor worker productivity and or for any other appropriate purpose.

Referring now to a system for logging wireless network activity is illustrated. In one example system can include a device that can communicate over a WPAN . As further illustrated by system a device can have stored thereon and or otherwise associated therewith system resources which can include services information and or other suitable resources as generally described herein. In accordance with one aspect a security component can be further provided at the device to regulate the communication and or other use of system resources over WPAN .

In one example a monitoring component can be provided in association with the security component and or as a standalone component associated with a device to passively monitor incoming and or outgoing uses of system resources associated with the device . Additionally and or alternatively the monitoring component can record incoming and or outgoing requests for system resources in an access log . In accordance with one aspect the monitoring component can record compile any suitable information regarding respective requests for system resources in the access log such as dates and or times of respective requests addresses and or other identifying information relating to entities making respective requests communication profiles specified in respective requests and or other appropriate information. The monitoring component can record a common set of information in an access log for all monitored accesses or alternatively varying sets of information can be used based on one or more predefined factors such as the time originator or nature of a monitored request and or other suitable factors. In one example upon compiling an access log the access log can be regulated by the security component as part of its associated system resources and or regarded as separate from associated system resources . In another example logging performed by the monitoring component can be transparent to a user of an associated device and or another device connected via a WPAN such that the user is not made aware that logging is taking place.

In accordance with one aspect the monitoring component can maintain an access log for all accesses to associated system resources or alternatively the monitoring component can be configured to record only a subset of such accesses. For example an owner or user of a device can specify a class of authorized and or unauthorized uses e.g. by communication profile originator identity access time etc. and the monitoring component can be configured to record only those access requests that are classified as unauthorized. Thus in an example involving an attack on system resources the monitoring component can be utilized to obtain and record information relating the attack and its originator s in a transparent fashion such that the originator s of the attack are not made aware that the attacks are being recorded in the access log . Subsequently based on the recorded information in the access log unauthorized uses of system resources can be blocked and or other appropriate actions can be taken.

In accordance with another aspect an access log compiled by the monitoring component can be utilized to determine WPAN usage statistics for an associated device for use in various applications for managing the operation of the device . By way of example a number of WPAN connections made throughout the course of a predefined time period e.g. hour working shift day etc. can be monitored to facilitate analysis and or optimization of device power usage. As another example usage statistics collected by the monitoring component can be utilized to monitor productivity associated with a device . For example in a non limiting case where the device associated with the monitoring component is a barcode scanner the monitoring component can compile data pertaining to the number of items scanned by the device in a predetermined timeframe and these data can subsequently be compared to a baseline or expected usage rate to determine user productivity.

Turning to a system for configuring a WPAN firewall in accordance with various aspects is illustrated. As illustrates system can include a security component which can operate as a WPAN firewall to secure incoming and or outgoing access to associated communication and or computing resources e.g. system resources . In one example the security component can regulate access to secured resources by allowing or denying access to the secured resources on a request by request basis based on a defined set of allowed accesses and or a defined set of blocked accesses . Additionally and or alternatively the security component can utilize sets and or to identify requests to be monitored and or recorded as described above with respect to system .

In accordance with one aspect a firewall Application Programming Interface API and or a user control interface can be associated with the security component to allow one or more users and or other entities to define sets and or other appropriate aspects of the operation of a WPAN firewall. In one example a set of allowed accesses and or a set of blocked accesses can be defined with respect to one or more communication profiles such as FTP transfer OBEX transfer and or one or more other suitable use cases. Sets can be defined such that all communication requests relating to a particular profile are allowed and or denied or alternatively communication requests pertaining to a particular profile can be allowed and or denied based on the originator of the request and or other aspects of the request. For example a firewall API and or user control interface can be utilized to configure the security component to block all connection requests that attempt to access the FTP profile. Alternatively connection requests that attempt to access the FTP profile can be allowed in some cases such as a case in which a request originates from a corporate server and denied in other cases. In another example sets can be defined based on the originator of a connection request. For example a firewall API and or user control interface can be utilize to configure the security component to block all connection requests regardless of profile requested from devices not already paired with an associated device and or belonging to a trusted list of devices at the associated device.

In accordance with another aspect a firewall API can be utilized by an owner and or provider of an associated device to define low level controls for the security component while the user control interface can be utilized to facilitate user customization of the security component within bounds defined by the firewall API . In one example the extent to which configurability is distributed between the firewall API and the user control interface can be based on the level of technical expertise of a user of an associated device the relationship between the user of an associated device and its owner or the like. For example users with greater knowledge of security configuration can be given greater control by the firewall API to configure the security component via a user control interface . As another example in the case of a fleet of terminals e.g. owned by an organization that are utilized for simple tasks such as responding to displayed prompts or the like and terminal management is performed by the owner of the fleet greater control can be retained by the firewall API in order to facilitate en masse management and programming of the terminals.

As an additional example an owner and or other provider of a device to a user that is disparate from the owner can configure the firewall API to retain a substantially high degree of control over the operation of the security component in the event that a device contains confidential information that is to be protected from outbound transfer by the user. For example a security component and associated firewall API can be utilized for a fleet of devices associated with a company or other organization where confidential information is utilized to configure the devices such that their users cannot transfer the confidential information out of the devices. In such an example a device can have an associated interface that facilitates basic configuration of its WPAN stack. A user of the device may desire to utilize this interface and or write one or more programs in order to transfer confidential information from the device over a WPAN however as generally described herein an associated security component can be utilized to prevent such a transfer from occurring. Further if the security component is configured to utilize a firewall API as a substantially exclusive access mechanism and the firewall API is made private it can be appreciated that a user of the device can be rendered unable to transfer confidential information out of an associated device over a WPAN even if the user has sufficient knowledge of the device and its basic WPAN functionality to configure the communication stack of the device.

In accordance with one aspect the firewall API can be utilized to provide versatile low level customization for the operation of the security component and its associated respective sets and of allowed and or denied accesses. In one example the firewall API can be programmable such that a developer and or other entity with knowledge of the API can create one or more applications to configure the operation of the API . It can be appreciated that the programmability of the firewall API can facilitate versatility in the operation of the security component as a developer and or another entity can write an application to leverage the API that specifies any possible management operation or combination thereof. In another example the firewall API can be utilized in combination with a user control interface such that the firewall API limits aspects of operation of the security component that can be controlled by a user to a selected set of aspects specified in the user control interface . In one example the firewall API can be hidden to a user of an associated device such that the user cannot modify the API without a priori knowledge of techniques for programming it. Thus it can be appreciated that user control of a security component configured by a user control interface in combination with a firewall API will be limited to options provided in the user control interface in most cases.

In accordance with another aspect a user control interface can be provided at an associated device to facilitate high level customization of the security component by a user of the device. In one example an extent to which the user control interface can be utilized to configure the security component can be based on a firewall API . For example the set of possible configurations of the security component can be restricted by the firewall API to a subset of possible combinations and the user control interface can facilitate configuration of the security component and or sets and or within the restricted subset of possibilities. In one example the user control interface can be designed by anticipating one or more aspects of the security component a user may desire to configure and presenting the ability to configure those aspects within the user control interface .

Referring to a system for managing security for a plurality of network connections is illustrated. System can include a device or terminal which can have associated system resources as generally described herein. In one example terminal can facilitate communication over a plurality of networks and or internetworks such as a WPAN and or Wireless Local Area Network WLAN . While not illustrated in system terminal can also communicate over any other suitable network such as a wired LAN and or a wired or wireless Wide Area Network WAN in addition to or in place of WPAN and or WLAN .

In accordance with one aspect in order to secure system resources over various networks utilized by a terminal the terminal can utilize respective security components corresponding to the networks over which the terminal communicates. For example as illustrated by system terminal can include a WPAN security component to secure associated system resources over WPAN connection and or a WLAN security component to secure system resources over a WLAN connection . It can be appreciated that terminal can be utilized to communicate laterally with a plurality of associated networks. Accordingly for example resources communicated over WLAN can also be communicated over WPAN and vice versa.

In a case where multiple networks are used by a device security measures for the respective networks are generally independently configured. Thus for example WLAN can be configured for a first specified level of security whereas WPAN is configured independently for a second specified level of security. Accordingly even if WLAN is configured via WLAN security component a WPAN connection utilized by terminal can be left substantially unsecured. To mitigate this shortcoming a standardization component can be provided for terminal to standardize security levels across multiple networks used by terminal thereby facilitating a uniform security policy across all networks utilized by terminal . In one example a developer and or other entity can utilize a standardization component to manage the security of a terminal more fully in that if the security level of one or more non WPAN radio systems are changed the WPAN security of the terminal can react accordingly. The standardization component can be designed to automatically adjust the WPAN security component in response to changes in security policies for other networks utilized by a terminal or alternatively the standardization component can be provided as a mechanism by which a developer and or other configuring entity of the terminal can standardize security levels utilized by the terminal .

With reference now to illustrated are diagrams and of a conventional network protocol model and Bluetooth stack. More particularly diagram illustrates the The Open Systems Interconnection OSI Basic Reference Model which represents a seven layered communication protocol. The OSI reference model is illustrated as a hierarchy of layers which consist of groups of similar functions that provide services to higher layers and receive services from lower layers. As diagram illustrates the OSI reference model includes a physical layer that defines the electrical and physical specifications for a communicating device a data link layer that defines mechanisms for the transfer of data between communicating devices a network layer that facilitates the transfer of data between devices over a network e.g. using Internet Protocol IP a transport layer that facilitates transparent transfer of data between users and to upper communication layers e.g. using Transmission Control Protocol TCP or User Datagram Protocol UDP a session layer that controls connections between devices and or applications running thereon a presentation layer that delivers and or formats information to one or more application layer processes and an application layer that performs one or more services related to an application running at a device.

Diagram illustrates a communication stack that can be utilized for WPAN communication pursuant to the Bluetooth standard and or any other suitable standard. As diagram illustrates the communication stack can include a radio protocol that specifies an air interface between communicating devices a baseband protocol that specifies techniques for piconet connection and addressing a link manager that manages links between WPAN connected devices a host control interface that allows basic configuration of WPAN communication and provides access to hardware status and or control registers associated with a device a Logical Link Control and Adaptation Protocol L2CAP that transfers information between higher level applications and a lower level communication link communication services such as radio frequency communication RFCOMM Service Discovery Protocol SDP FTP OBEX and the like and one or more application s that can leverage lower level communication services.

In accordance with one aspect the Bluetooth stack illustrated by diagram can be extended to include firewall functionality as illustrated by diagram in . As diagram illustrates security features for WPAN communication as generally described herein can be provided by extending a Bluetooth stack utilized for WPAN communication to incorporate a firewall above the host control interface layer. In one example a firewall can be placed above the host control interface level of the Bluetooth stack as illustrated by diagram to protect system resources that are utilized by the L2CAP services and applications provided in the Bluetooth stack. For example during the course of a logical Bluetooth connection several connections can be made and or broken potentially repeatedly during the course of communication. As diagram illustrates because the firewall extension is provided above the baseband and radio level of the Bluetooth stack the firewall extension provided in diagram can allow WPAN connections at the radio and or baseband levels. However it should be appreciated that in order for private information to be transferred over a WPAN it is generally required to access a higher level transport service such as FTP and or OBEX as well as one or more appropriate transfer applications. Accordingly because the firewall extension illustrated by diagram can be implemented below services and or applications on the Bluetooth stack it can be appreciated that while connections can be made at the radio and or baseband levels the firewall can block monitor and or otherwise secure a connection that requests a list of available services and or the use of one or more services that reside further up the stack.

In one example the firewall extension illustrated by diagram can be utilized to prevent a malicious user from connecting to a device via a WPAN and obtaining files contact information and or other sensitive information from the device. In another example the illustrated firewall extension can be utilized to prevent viruses and or other harmful files from being transferred to a device. For example in applications such as e mail clients a user can be presented with a notification that an entity wishes to transfer a file to the user. However in many cases the file that is the subject of the notification has already been physically transferred to the device on which the e mail client resides and the user is effectively presented merely with a choice as to whether or not to accept the file. In contrast by implementing a firewall extension as illustrated by diagram device access can be secured at a low level such that the file transfer is blocked from occurring altogether.

Turning to methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with various features presented herein are illustrated via respective series of acts. It is to be appreciated that the methodologies claimed herein are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology as claimed herein.

Referring to a method for securing resources e.g. system resources in a WPAN e.g. WPAN is illustrated. At protected device resources are identified. At one or more incoming and or outgoing requests for the protected device resources identified at over a WPAN are identified. At the requests identified at are analyzed. At access of the requests identified at to the protected device resources identified at is controlled e.g. by a security component based on the analysis performed at .

Referring now to a flowchart is provided that illustrates a method of recording network activity. At one or more types of WPAN resource accesses to be monitored are identified. At requests for incoming and or outgoing WPAN resource access are identified. AT requests for WPAN resource access received at that belong to the monitored WPAN access type s identified at are logged e.g. to an access log by a monitoring component .

Turning to an example computing system or operating environment in which various aspects described herein can be implemented is illustrated. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the claimed subject matter e.g. anywhere that a network can be desirably configured. Accordingly the below general purpose computing system described below in is but one example of a computing system in which the claimed subject matter can be implemented.

Although not required the claimed subject matter can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with one or more components of the claimed subject matter. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the claimed subject matter can also be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an example of a computing environment for implementing various aspects described herein includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer can include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile as well as removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media can embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and can include any suitable information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory can also contain data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of non limiting example memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example computer can include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive can be connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard or a pointing device such as a mouse trackball touch pad and or other pointing device. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and or other input devices can be connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . In addition a monitor or other type of display device can be connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and or a printer which can also be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface at input and or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It should be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are non limiting examples and that other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

What has been described above includes examples of the claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the detailed description is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects. In this regard it will also be recognized that the described aspects include a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

