---

title: Control of inter-zone/intra-zone recovery using in-band communications
abstract: A method of communicating information regarding a failure is disclosed. The method includes generating failure information. The failure affects a virtual path, which is between a first node and a second node. A first zone includes the first node, and a second zone includes the second node. The failure information can include, for example, a zone identifier and/or an action code.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08427962&OS=08427962&RS=08427962
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08427962
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080324
---
The present patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 039 989 entitled CONTROL OF INTER ZONE INTRA ZONE RECOVERY USING IN BAND COMMUNICATIONS filed Oct. 26 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 349 326 and having Haig Michael Zadikian Zareh Baghdasarian Ali Najib Saleh and Vahid Parsi as inventors which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 899 962 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INTER ZONE RESTORATION filed Jul. 6 2001 and having Haig Michael Zadikian Zareh Baghdasarian All Najib Saleh and Vahid Parsi as inventors. The aforementioned applications are assigned to Cisco Technology Inc. the assignee of the present invention and are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety and for all purposes.

This invention relates to the field of communication networks in particular to a method and apparatus to re establish communication links after one or more communication links experience a failure.

Today s networks carry vast amounts of information. High bandwidth applications supported by these networks include streaming video streaming audio and large aggregations of voice traffic. In the future these bandwidth demands are certain to increase. To meet such demands an increasingly popular alternative is the use of light wave communications carried over fiber optic cables. The use of light wave communications provides several benefits including high bandwidth ease of installation and capacity for future growth.

Optical infrastructures are capable of transmission speeds in the gigabit range which helps address the ever increasing need for bandwidth mentioned above. Such infrastructures employ various topologies including ring and mesh topologies. In order to provide fault protection ring topologies normally reserve a large portion e.g. 50 or more of the network s available bandwidth for use in restoring failed circuits. However ring topologies are capable of quickly restoring failed circuits. This capability is important in providing reliable service to customers and is particularly important in telephony applications where a failure can result in alarms dropped calls and ultimately customer dissatisfaction and lost revenue. In a similar vein because of bandwidth demands protocol overhead related to provisioning restoration and other functions should be kept to a minimum in order to make the maximum amount of bandwidth available for use by customers.

An alternative to the ring topology the mesh topology reduces the amount of bandwidth needed for protection. The mesh topology is a point to point topology with each node in the network connected to one or more other nodes. Because a circuit may be routed through various combinations of the network s nodes and over the various links which connect them excess capacity through a given node or over a given link can serve to protect several circuits. The restoration of a circuit following a failure in a mesh topology can consume a relatively large amount of time.

Therefore there is the tradeoff in ring topologies that can restore communication quickly but take up a great deal of bandwidth and mesh topologies that do not take up as much bandwidth but are much slower in restoring communications. Current communication networks provide continuous and as users have become accustomed to uninterrupted transmission. A need therefore has been felt for a method and apparatus that allows for rapid restoration of communication in the event of the failure of a link and communication of information regarding same.

In one embodiment a method of communicating information regarding a failure is disclosed. The method includes generating failure information. The failure affects a virtual path which is between a first node and a second node. A first zone includes the first node and a second zone includes the second node. The failure information can include for example a zone identifier and or an action code.

In another embodiment a method of communicating information regarding a failure is disclosed. The method includes receiving failure information at a node. The failure affects a virtual path which is between a first node and a second node. A first zone includes the first node and a second zone includes the second node. The failure information can include for example a zone identifier and or an action code.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects inventive features and advantages of the present invention as defined solely by the claims will become apparent in the non limiting detailed description set forth below.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail it should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

The present invention provides for the communication of information for regarding the restoration of paths between zones each of which may include one or more nodes. A detailed description of a zoned network architecture such as that now presented is described in the commonly assigned patent application Ser. No. 09 389 302 filed Sep. 2 1999 entitled A NETWORK ADDRESSING SCHEME FOR REDUCING PROTOCOL OVERHEAD IN AN OPTICAL NETWORK and having A. N. Saleh and S. E. Plote as inventors now U.S. Pat. No. 6 801 496 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and for all purposes.

A given path s source and destination nodes will be located within one or more zones. In the case contemplated by the present invention the source and destination nodes are located in different zones and so the path s operation necessarily implicate inter zone communications. At each of the zones certain nodes are coupled to nodes in other zones. Such nodes are referred to herein as border nodes and so border nodes of a given zone are coupled to one or more border nodes of other zones as well as nodes within that zone. The aggregation of zone interconnections are referred to herein as a backbone zone.

A topology database can be used to provide information to nodes in a network regarding connectivity of those nodes to other of those nodes and zones. Broadcast packets are sent by nodes whenever a failure occurs effectively requesting the availability of other nodes to connect and establish a communication path. To limit the size of the topology database and the scope of broadcast packets networks employing the protocol described herein can be divided into smaller logical groups called zones. Each zone executes a separate copy of the topology distribution algorithm and typically nodes within each zone are only required to maintain information about their own zone. There is no need for a zone s topology to be known outside that zone s boundaries and nodes within a zone need not be aware of the network s topology external to their respective zones. A network includes a number of nodes.

Nodes that attach to multiple zones are referred to herein as border nodes. Each zone has at least one border node and that border node is coupled to at least one other border node of another zone. Border nodes are typically required to maintain a separate topological database also called link state or connectivity database for each of the zones to which they are attached. Border nodes use the connectivity database for intra zone routing. Border nodes are also required to maintain a separate database that describes the connectivity of the zones themselves. This database which is referred to herein as the network database is used for inter zone routing. The network database describes the topology of a special zone referred to herein as the backbone zone. In certain embodiments the backbone zone is always assigned a hierarchical identification ID of 0. The backbone has the characteristics of a zone. There is no need for a backbone s topology to be known outside the backbone and a zone s border nodes need not be aware of the topologies of other zones.

Within a zone nodes can be distinguished by the attributes they possess. In one embodiment the location of the node can determine the attributes of the node. A master node is defined as the endpoint of a link with numerically lower node ID. A master border node is defined as the end node of an inter zone link that is also a source node or proxy source node of one or more virtual paths VP that use that inter zone link. A proxy node is a node that can be a proxy for stand in for a source or destination node acting for that node e.g. in the case of restoring a failed VP . Typically a proxy node will be a border node a node that is coupled to one or more nodes in another zone and although a border node need not necessarily act as a proxy node such is typically the case. Thus proxy nodes are also referred to herein as border proxy nodes. A VP is an end to end connection with which is associated certain information such as a path bandwidth class of service CoS quality of service QoS level and the like. An inter zone VP is one that traverses two or more zones.

The wavelength routing protocol also referred to herein as WaRP describes a master border node as generating a Create Path request when the inter zone link fails. For a description of WaRP please refer to the commonly assigned patent application Ser. No. 09 232 397 filed Jan. 15 1999 entitled A METHOD FOR ROUTING INFORMATION OVER A NETWORK and having H. M. Zadikian Z. Baghdasarian A. N. Saleh and V. Parsi as inventors now U.S. Pat. No. 6 856 627 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and for all purposes. A slave border node is the end node of an inter zone link that is also the destination or proxy destination node of one or more VPs that use that link. An entry border node is a border node that receives the Create Path request from an adjacent zone. An exit border node is a border node that forwards the Create Path request to an adjacent zone. An origin node is the origin of a WaRP packet e.g. Restore Path Delete Path and Test Path packets . An origin node is either the source node of the VP or a proxy border node. In the case of an intra zone failure an origin border node is a border node that assumes the role of a source node during a path restoration attempt and is responsible for generating the Restore Path request on behalf of the source node. The ID of the origin border node is carried in the origin field of the Request Path request.

In this particular example inter zone link Link fails. When an inter zone link fails or one of its two end nodes fail the WaRP protocol uses a combination of broadcast and source routed packets to reroute traffic around the failure.

In certain implementations the WaRP protocol allows a single inter zone failure to be restored within 50 milliseconds ms or less. In one embodiment timely restoration within 50 ms during a second inter zone failure can be affected by the WaRP protocol algorithm using information contained in the topology database of the backbone zone or in this example Zone to compute new inter zone routes for the failed VPs. Source routed packets are used to request and establish the new routes. In other words no flooding or broadcasting of packets is ever attempted nor allowed between zones only within zones or intra zone. One of the two nodes on either end of the failed link that node being a master node computes a shortest path first alternative for each failed route and places the newly calculated routes into a Create Path packet and sends the Create Path packet to the next backbone node along the path. Tandem border nodes then use the computed route to forward the packet toward its ultimate destination. Routes within each zone are established using the same flooding mechanism as described earlier. The basic flooding mechanism involves each packet being sent to all active neighbors except the one from which the packet was received.

Intra zone restoration activities preferably occur in parallel and proceed independently of one another. While routes are established a second failure along an inter zone link results in a negative response generated by one of the tandem border nodes. That negative response is propagated all the way to the master border node and causes the master border node to compute a new route for the VP and retry the operation or link. In most cases this process increases the restoration time of the VP to over 100 ms or the time required for 2 attempts . This lengthy restoration time can be avoided and restoration times limited to 50 ms or less by pre planning the backbone route for all inter zone link failures. Only the backbone route the backbone route being made up entirely of inter zone links needs to be pre planned. The one or more intra zone sub paths of the end to end route are still established dynamically using the Restore Path packet request.

Restoration times can also be limited by eliminating any possibility of back to back inter zone link failures. One way to deal with inter zone link failures is to use traditional protection schemes like diverse routing the use of physically dissimilar cabling and hardware and self healing rings SHR . This is also known as providing redundant paths. Protecting inter zone links can be justified because inter zone links make up a very small percentage of the overall fiber capacity. Moreover in some situations there is not enough connectivity among zones to make mesh restoration in the backbone zone any more efficient than diverse routing and SHR.

One of the attributes that makes mesh restoration superior to other traditional schemes is mesh restoration s ability to allow for sharing capacity. The amount of capacity sharing however is highly dependent on the topology of the network the richness of its connectivity and the end to end demand requirements. For a sparsely connected network such as may be the case in a backbone zone capacity sharing is minimal. For such topologies where connectivity is limited and a hop count is small the additional cost of using traditional restoration methods can be justified a hop is the path between two network nodes and the hop count is the number of hops between a given pair of nodes. For example a two hop route involves three nodes and two links a two links.

SHR provides very fast restoration of failed links by using redundant links between the nodes of each ring. Each ring consists of two rings a ring supporting information transfer in a clockwise direction and a ring supporting information transfer in a counter clockwise direction. The terms east and west are also commonly used in this regard. Each direction employs its own set of fiber optic cables with traffic between nodes assigned a certain direction either clockwise or counter clockwise . If a cable in one of these sub rings is damaged the ring heals itself by changing the direction of information flow from the direction taken by the information transferred over the failed link to the sub ring having information flow in the opposite direction.

The detection of such faults and the restoration of information flow thus occur very quickly on the order of 10 ms for detection and 50 ms for restoration for most ring implementations. The short restoration time is critical in supporting applications such as telephone networks that are sensitive to QoS. Other applications that may be QoS sensitive include systems that require short restoration times to prevent old digital terminals and switches from generating and initiating alarms such as carrier group alarms. Alarms are undesirable because such alarms usually result in dropped calls causing users down time and aggravation.

The protection bandwidth can be a user configurable parameter attaching a QoS metric to configured connections and links. The QoS parameter allows the amount of required spare capacity to be reduced even further while maintaining the same quality of service for those connections that need it and more importantly can afford such treatment. In other words high availability is mapped into a cost metric and only made available to users who can justify the cost.

It will be noted that typically restoration times that exceed 10 seconds can lead to timeouts at higher protocol layers while those that exceed one minute can lead to disastrous results for the entire network. However the price of such quickly restored information flow is the high bandwidth requirements of such systems. By maintaining completely redundant sub rings an SHR topology requires 100 excess bandwidth. As noted an alternative to the SHR topology is the mesh topology.

Networks based on mesh type restoration are inherently more capacity efficient than ring based designs mainly because each network link can potentially provide protection for fiber cuts on several different links. By sharing the capacity between links a network using a mesh topology can provide redundancy for failure restoration at less than 100 of the bandwidth capacity originally required. Such networks are even more efficient when traffic transits several links. Using the described approaches however result in restoration times ranging from several minutes to several months.

Once the user has defined the topology of the network the user can configure one or more connections between nodes. Each configured connection defines a virtual path between the two end points which are not required to be direct neighbors or even belong to the same zone. Similar to a physical point to point connection the resulting VP has an associated capacity and an operational state.

The two end points of a VP can be designated as having a master slave relationship. The master node is also referred to herein as the source node of the VP and the slave node is referred to herein as the destination node. The source node typically assumes recovery responsibilities for the VP and originates Restore Path requests. The destination node waits for a message from the source node informing the destination node of the new path to use for the connection.

The method in which VPs are restored is the same regardless of how backbone routes are obtained. If 1 1 protection is used in the backbone zone the alternate route is simply the protection channel assigned to the failed span. For a description of 1 1 and 1 N protection please refer to the commonly assigned patent application Ser. No. 09 859 166 filed May 16 2001 entitled A METHOD FOR RESTORING A VIRTUAL PATH IN AN OPTICAL NETWORK USING 1 N PROTECTION and having H. M. Zadikian Z. Baghdasarian A. N. Saleh and V. Parsi as inventors now U.S. Pat. No. 7 200 104 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and for all purposes.

When mesh restoration is used however the route is computed automatically by running an shortest path first SPF algorithm on the backbone zone to find the shortest path between the two border nodes. The alternate route regardless of how it is computed is then placed in the Create Path request and sent to the target node.

Routes can be computed using a QoS based shortest path algorithm or the SPF algorithm. The route selection process relies on configured metrics and an up to date view of the topology to find the shortest paths between any two nodes. The topology database contains information about all network nodes their links and available capacity.

All nodes are assigned globally unique IDs. This gives the user control over the master slave relationship between nodes. The network detects duplicate IDs when node adjacency is established. All nodes found with a duplicate ID are disabled by the protocol. An appropriate alarm can be generated to provide notification of the problem so that proper action can be taken.

The details of an example SPF algorithm are provided in patent application Ser. No. 09 232 397 entitled A METHOD FOR ROUTING INFORMATION OVER A NETWORK as previously incorporated by reference herein.

Communications are carried out in the event of an inter zone failure to restore VPs affected by the failure. For example a Create Path packet can be used to restore VPs disabled by such inter zone failures. The Create Path packet can carry among other information carried in its body a route that consists of a list of border nodes along the path between the source and destination nodes of the given VP. The Create Path packet is generated by one of the two border nodes that share the failed link or the remaining one of the border nodes that remains operational in the case of a failed border node . The Create Path packet is terminated by the border node of the last zone that the old and new paths have in common.

Now referring back to the two end points of the failed inter zone link which are border nodes Node . and Node . detect the failure on Link and send one or more Link Down indications to all end nodes affected by the failure. An end node is any node that terminates a VP within that zone including proxy source and destination nodes. In this example the two end nodes are Node . and Node . .

 Node . a master border node realizes that the failed link has a pre planned alternate path so it formats the following Create Path request of Table 4 and sends it to Node . 

When the Create Path request arrives at node Node . it simply increments the PathIndex field and forwards the modified request to Node . the next node along the path. The Create Path request also initiates path establishment within its zone by sending a Restore Path request to node . the Destination node of the VP.

Once a node has detected a failure on one of its links either through a local loss of signal LOS defect or a received alarm indication signal AIS the node scans its VP table looking for entries that have the failed link in their path. When the node finds such an entry the node releases all link bandwidth used by the VP. Then if the node is the VP s source node or a proxy border node the node changes its state to restoring and places the affected VP on a list of VPs to be restored. Otherwise if the node is not the source node or a proxy border node the state of the VP is changed to down and a timer is started to delete the node from the database. If a corresponding Restore Path request is not received from the origin node within a certain timeout period the timer is started.

The VP list that was created in the previous step is rank ordered by QoS ensuring that VPs with a higher QoS are restored first. Each entry in the list contains among other things the ID of the VP Source and Destination nodes of the VP configured QoS level and required bandwidth.

When the Create Path request arrives at node Node . the last node in the specified path Node . sends a Change Target request to node Node . node Node . being the source node of the VP. Node . does not forward the Create Path request since there are no other entries in the path. Upon receiving the Change Target request from node Node . node Node . formats and sends a Restore Path request to node Node . .

Once an acceptable instance of the Restore Path request has reached node Node . node Node . sends a Create Path response to node Node . . The response as illustrated in Table 5 contains a list of ports allocated for the VP on the inter zone link. In this example node Node . allocates port and port .

When the positive response reaches node Node . the sub path in Zone connects to the ports specified in the response. Node Node . then forwards the response to Node Node . . Node Node . is the master border node that generated the Create Path request.

In this example the preplanned alternate path passes through a transit zone. The transit zone is also referred to as Zone . A transit zone is defined as a zone that contains one or more tandem nodes used by a particular VP with the transit node neither originating nor terminating that VP. The first two steps are the same as described in the previous example except for the path shown in the Create Path message. The alternate path in this example is 

When the Create Path message arrives at a transit zone Zone the entry border node Node . forwards the request to the exit border node Node . . When the Create Path message reaches node Node . path establishment is initiated within the zone by sending a Restore Path request to node Node . . Node Node . forwards the Create Path request to node Node . the next node along the specified path. When the message finally reaches node Node . in the target zone node Node . receives a Change Target request. Node Node . being the source node of the VP. If zone Zone were a transit zone the Change Target request would be sent to a proxy source node instead.

The Change Target request triggers node Node . to send a Restore Path request to node Node . . When an acceptable instance of the Restore Path request arrives at node Node . node Node . formats and sends a Create Path response to node Node . . The response illustrated in Table 6 contains a list of ports allocated for the path on link Link . In this particular example link Link includes a port and a port .

When the Create Path response reaches node Node . the create path response allocates the specified ports on link Link and forwards a modified version of the response to node . Node . as illustrated in Table 7.

Node Node . upon receiving the above response allocates the required number of ports on Link appends the required number of ports to the response and sends the response to node Node . as illustrated in Table 8.

Node Node . upon receiving the response from node Node . allocates the specified port and port on link Link and connects them to the sub path in Zone . Node . also forwards the response to Node . which is the master border node and thus completing the loop.

Failure Detection and Propagation in the Control of Inter Zone Intra Zone Recovery Using In Band Communications

In a flat WaRP network failures can be detected using for example standard SONET mechanisms. A fiber cut between nodes and for example results in a loss of signal LOS condition at both nodes. The LOS condition generates an AIS downstream an RDI upstream if the path still exists and an LOS defect locally. The defect is upgraded to a failure 2.5 seconds later which causes an alarm to be sent to the Operations System OS . The handling of the LOS condition follows Bellcore s recommendations in GR253 which allows nodes employing the WaRP protocol to inter operate and co exist with other network elements in the same network. The mesh restoration protocol is invoked as soon as the LOS defect is detected by the line card which occurs 100 g after the failure. The 100 detection period is determined by Bellcore requirements.

The arrival of the AIS at the downstream node causes the downstream node to send a similar alarm downstream. This continues from node to node until the MS finally reaches the source node of the affected VP or a border node if the source node is located in a different zone. In the latter case the border node restores the VP on behalf of the source node. The Bellcore specification GR253 gives each node a maximum of 125 us one frame time to forward the AIS downstream which allows failures to propagate very quickly toward the source node.

In a system according to the present invention failure information can be communicated using in band techniques. Such failure information can include a command in the form of an action code that indicates to various nodes in the network what actions if any should be performed by a given node. A set of example action codes is provided in Table 9.

These action codes and their effects are explained in further detail in connection with the discussion of B and C.

If the receiving node is not a proxy node in the specified zone a determination is made as to whether the receiving node is the VP s source node step . If the receiving node is the VP s source node step source node processing is performed step . If the receiving node is not the VP s source node step the node receiving the AIS RDI simply copies the K1 K2 bytes into the frame traveling in the outgoing direction step .

Otherwise a determination is then made as to whether the given proxy node has initiated a restoration process for the affected VP step . If the proxy node has not initiated such a restoration process the proxy node initiates such a process step and sets the action code to IDLE step . This indicates that a proxy node is handling the restoration at least for the moment and prevents the source node as well as other border nodes from taking any action with regard to restoring the affected VP. The proxy node initiates restoration of the affected VP using intra zone resources. More specifically restoration can be effected by employing a dynamic mesh restoration technique such as is described in the commonly assigned patent application Ser. No. 09 750 668 filed Dec. 29 2000 entitled VIRTUAL PATH RESTORATION USING FAST DYNAMIC MESH RESTORATION IN AN OPTICAL NETWORK and having A. N. Saleh and S. E. Plote as inventors now U.S. Pat. No. 7 502 313 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and for all purposes. In the terms used therein such restoration can be effected by sending a Restore Path Request RPR to one or more nodes within the zone in which the failure occurred.

If the proxy node has initiated such a restoration process a determination is made as to whether the restoration process for the affected VP has completed step . If the restoration process for the affected VP has successfully completed the proxy node sets the action code to RESTORED indicating that the affected VP has been successfully restored step . If the restoration process for the affected VP has not completed a determination is made as to whether the restoration process for the affected VP is proceeding successfully step . If the restoration process for the affected VP is proceeding successfully the proxy node sets the action code to IDLE indicating that the source node as well as other border nodes should not take any action step . Otherwise if the restoration process for the affected VP has not been successful the proxy node sets the action code to RESTORE X indicating as noted that inter zone restoration resources should be employed in restoring the failed VP step . In this case the proxy node is in effect asking the source node to handle restoration of the affected VP.

One or more of client computers N and or one or more of servers N may be for example a computer system of any appropriate design in general including a mainframe a mini computer or a personal computer system. Such a computer system typically includes a system unit having a system processor and associated volatile and non volatile memory one or more display monitors and keyboards one or more diskette drives one or more fixed disk storage devices and one or more printers. These computer systems are typically information handling systems which are designed to provide computing power to one or more users either locally or remotely. Such a computer system may also include one or a plurality of I O devices i.e. peripheral devices which are coupled to the system processor and which perform specialized functions. Examples of I O devices include modems sound and video devices and specialized communication devices. Mass storage devices such as hard disks CD ROM drives and magneto optical drives may also be provided either as an integrated or peripheral device. One such example computer system discussed in terms of client computers N is shown in detail in .

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include both read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded and typically affords at least 66 megabytes of memory space. The ROM or flash memory may contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system are generally stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. CD ROM drive floppy disk unit or other storage medium. Additionally applications may be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via network modem or interface .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system may connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Many other devices can be connected such as a mouse connected to bus via serial port a modem connected to bus via serial port and a network interface connected directly to bus . Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. bar code readers document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely it is not necessary for all of the devices shown in to be present to practice the present invention. The devices and subsystems may be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The operation of a computer system such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present invention may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk CD ROM or floppy disk . Additionally computer system may be any kind of computing device and so includes personal data assistants PDAs network appliance X window terminal or other such computing device. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX Linux or other known operating system. Computer system also supports a number of Internet access tools including for example an HTTP compliant web browser having a JavaScript interpreter such as Netscape Navigator 8.0 Microsoft Explorer 8.0 and the like.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal may be directly transmitted from a first block to a second block or a signal may be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified between the blocks. Although the signals of the above described embodiment are characterized as transmitted from one block to the next other embodiments of the present invention may include modified signals in place of such directly transmitted signals as long as the informational and or functional aspect of the signal is transmitted between blocks. To some extent a signal input at a second block may be conceptualized as a second signal derived from a first signal output from a first block due to physical limitations of the circuitry involved e.g. there will inevitably be some attenuation and delay . Therefore as used herein a second signal derived from a first signal includes the first signal or any modifications to the first signal whether due to circuit limitations or due to passage through other circuit elements which do not change the informational and or final functional aspect of the first signal.

The foregoing described embodiment wherein the different components are contained within different other components e.g. the various elements shown as components of computer system . It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In an abstract but still definite sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality.

Referring to and a browser running on computer system employs a TCP IP connection to pass a request to server which can run an HTTP service e.g. under the WINDOWS operating system or a daemon e.g. under the UNIX operating system for example. Such a request can be processed for example by contacting an HTTP server employing a protocol that can be used to communicate between the HTTP server and the client computer. The HTTP server then responds to the protocol typically by sending a web page formatted as an HTML file. The browser interprets the HTML file and may form a visual representation of the same using local resources e.g. fonts and colors .

Although the present invention has been described in connection with several embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific forms set forth herein but on the contrary it is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as can be reasonably included within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

