---

title: Providing remote user authentication
abstract: Providing a remote computer user authentication service involves providing a reference to a user authentication service in a host server's source code (e.g., website source code). Further, integration code that may be used in an application programming interface (API) on the host server for interaction with a user authentication service can be provided. Additionally, a user interface (UI) for user authentication on the host server, and an authentication-test message on the host server using the UI may be provided. Also, providing authentication can comprise sending an authentication-request message to a mobile device designated by the user; and/or can comprise the user responding with information from the authentication-test message. The host server can be notified of the user's authentication after a correct response is received by the user authentication service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08522010&OS=08522010&RS=08522010
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08522010
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081020
---
In a computing environment websites and enterprise servers often utilize user authentication for security purposes for example to access server or website content or to perform online transactions. User authentication typically requires that a user register their identification information with the website or server often supplying a unique user name and an associated security code for example a text based password. User authentication that utilizes a user name and associated password is typically referred to as one factor authentication. Occasionally websites server systems may request that a user provide more than one form of authentication e.g. a security key which is often referred to as a strong authentication e.g. two factor authentication . Further websites servers can utilize authentication codes in order to determine whether the user is a human or an Internet bot e.g. a computer used to spam a website .

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Often when a user of a website or an enterprise server system wishes to access certain information or perform certain transactions on the website server they are asked to enter a user name and password into a user interface UI . Using a password associated with a particular username can provide for authentication of the user for example because the password is typically known only to the user who is registered with the website server. However security for remote access to websites and servers can be compromised if passwords are used by those other than the registered user e.g. by identity thieves . Two factor authentication can be used to add another layer of security to user authentication for example when a user performs an online purchase.

Current multi factor authentication techniques include utilizing telephones or mobile devices as a second authentication factor. As an example when a website user attempts to purchase an item online the host website can send a send a short message service SMS message e.g. a text message to the user s mobile device e.g. mobile phone . In this example after receiving the SMS message the user can reply with an authentication key provided by the website. In this way for example an identity thief would need the user s username password and designated mobile device in order to complete the authentication.

Previous and current solutions include a system that automatically calls a user designated telephone upon receiving an authentication request from a server system Authentify http www.authentify.com . However only those third party sites that have a previous business arrangement and a specific license with the authentication service may utilize this type of multi factor authentication for their users. Further this system does not provide broad based auto provisioning of site nor does it allow end user e.g. users going through a multi factor authentication process management of the authentication process. Other systems require that the website or server system host and provide the multi factor authentication request.

Further automated computer programs can be devised to access websites to perform certain activities e.g. to post messages to message boards often leading to undesirable results e.g. denial of service attacks . Websites often utilize a challenge response user test e.g. often called a Turing test that is designed to determine whether the user is a human in order to prevent computer controlled Internet bots from utilizing the site. Previous and current solutions include a CAPTCHA test commonly referring to a Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart which involves a distorted image of a text string that a user deciphers and enters as a response to the test. However many users find these tests difficult to decipher sophisticated programs have been devised to bypass these tests and some fraudsters hire individuals to decipher the tests. Other solutions often involve a second piece of hardware such as a keycard or code generator where a user attaches the device or swipes the card to authenticate. However these solutions require a user carry and possibly lose additional hardware and they can typically lead to higher costs for the server operators.

Techniques and systems are provided herein for providing remote computer user authentication for a host server using a mobile device. In one embodiment a user authentication service can provide a domain reference and integration code for an API to a host server e.g. a website wishing use the service so that the host server may begin utilizing the service. In this embodiment for example when a user attempts a login to the host server the user authentication service can be activated and a user interface UI can be provided on a browser page of the host server to facilitate in the authentication process. Further in this embodiment the user authentication service can provide an authentication test message e.g. containing an authentication key for example in the UI on the browser page.

In this example the user authentication service can send an authentication request message e.g. a SMS based text message to a mobile device designated by the user e.g. during a user registration process on a website and the user can respond with information e.g. the authentication key from the authentication test message. In this embodiment the user authentication service can authenticate the response from the user for example by matching the mobile device with the authentication key to user information in a database. The host server can be notified of the user s authentication after an appropriate response is received by the user authentication service. The host server for example may then allow the user to access secure areas of the server. In this way in this example a host server may be able to utilize the user authentication service without having to install large programs proprietary systems or have a pre existing security relationship with the service.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised for providing a remote computer user authentication service. Such a service for example could be used for multi factor user authentication and or for helping determine whether a user is a human.

In the exemplary method at integration code can be provided for utilization by an application programming interface API on a host server for notifying the user authentication service to initiate user authentication. In one embodiment when a user logs on to the host server for example by inputting a username and password an API on the host server can allow the host server to automatically notify the user authentication service that additional authentication e.g. a second factor may be needed. In this example integration code from the user authentication service can be used to develop an appropriate API for this purpose.

At in the exemplary method a user interface UI can be provided for user authentication on the host server. In one embodiment the user authentication service may provide a UI to the host server for example on a browser webpage upon user authentication request. In this example if the user authentication service has access and control of a user authentication webpage for the host server the user authentication service can run the UI on the webpage automatically upon authentication request.

At an authentication test message is provided for the host server. As an example a test message may be provided by the user authentication service that asks a user for a specific response in order to authenticate the user for the host server. In one embodiment authentication test messages may be randomly generated by the user authentication service and displayed on a host website s webpage for example. In this way in this example the authentication test message can be different to for different user sessions. In this embodiment the displayed message may ask a user to respond with information contained in the authentication test message for example providing an authentication key found in the message.

At the exemplary method can comprise at least one of sending an authentication request message to a mobile device designated by the user and receiving a user response from the user s mobile device to an authentication request the user response comprising information from the authentication test message. In one embodiment upon detecting a request for user authentication from the host server the user authentication service can send an authentication request message to the user s mobile device e.g. a mobile phone registered with a host website by the user during user registration . As an example the authentication request message may comprise a message requesting that the user responds to the message using the mobile device and that the response comprise information e.g. an authentication key from an authentication test message.

In another embodiment the authentication request message may comprise the authentication test message. For example the user authentication service may send a message with an authentication key to the user s mobile device and the message may also request that the user enter the authentication key into the host server e.g. through a user interface on a browser accessing the host server . In this way for example a response received from the user can include a second authentication factor by way of the authentication key from the authentication test message.

In another embodiment no authentication request message may be sent to the user s mobile device for example. Instead in this example the user authentication service may provide a request in a display e.g. a UI in a webpage of a host website that the user send a response to the user authentication service using their designated mobile device. Further in this example the user s response from their designated mobile device can comprise information from the message displayed.

In the exemplary method at user authentication notification can be provided after an appropriate user response to the authentication request message is received by the user authentication service. In one embodiment the user authentication service can determine whether a response received from the user met requirements set forth by the authentication request message or if a response was received at all. As an example if a user responds to a message using their mobile device and the response contains an authentication key requested by the service the authentication service can notify the host server that the user has been authenticated.

In another embodiment for example the user authentication service may display an authentication notification on a display e.g. a browser comprising the host server s webpage which requests that the user activate an event on the display. In this example the user may be asked to select a button on the display which sends a notification to the host server that the user has be authenticated.

It will be appreciated that while some examples of user host server and user authentication service interaction have been provided above the techniques described herein are not limited to these examples. The examples describe an exemplary method for providing a user authentication service and those skilled in the art may devise techniques and systems for user host server and user authentication service interaction that are not described.

In one aspect the user authentication service can communicate with a user s designated mobile device as a means of authentication. In this aspect utilizing the user s mobile device can for example be used as a second authentication factor by a host server e.g. a website for allowing access. As another example the mobile device can be used to authenticate whether a user is a human. In one embodiment communicating with the user s mobile device can comprise using short message service SMS communications SMS is often referred to as text messaging .

In another aspect providing a user authentication service can comprise light weight provisioning for a host server. In this aspect as an example if a host website wishes to utilize multi factor user authentication a user authentication service can provide a reference to their domain along with some light weight integration code to be utilized by the host website in APIs. In this example once the reference and integration code has been installed user authentication can be utilized by the website. Further in this aspect the user authentication service can provide remaining elements of the user authentication remotely for example with the host website needing to do little else. In this example the host website can create a cross domain inline frame Iframe which is controlled by the user authentication service. In this way the user authentication service can provide notifications messages and codes to a website user using the Iframe for example.

At or the exemplary embodiment application programming interface API code is provided for the host server for interaction with the user authentication service. As an example when a user logs into the website the user authentication service can be notified to begin user authentication. Further the user authentication service may notify the website that a user has been authenticated.

At a user interface UI is provided in the Iframe in the webpage for user authentication on the host server the UI comprising a challenge response authentication test message and authentication status information. For example because the user authentication service can control content in a cross domain Iframe the service may initiate a UI in the Iframe on a webpage that a user is accessing. In this example the UI can display a CAPTCHA image along with a message informing the user what they can do to complete authentication.

At a SMS based authentication request message is sent to the user s designated mobile device. For example when a user registers with the website they can register a mobile device for use during authentication. In this example the user authentication service can transmit a SMS message to the user s device which instructs the user to reply with an appropriate authentication response.

At a SMS based user response to the authentication request is received from the user s mobile device comprising information from the authentication test message. As an example the user can send a response to the text message received on their mobile device using a text message to the user authentication service. In this example in order to complete authentication the response can contain a code from the CAPTCHA image displayed on the webpage.

At user authentication notification is provided to the website after an appropriate response has been received from the user s mobile device. As an example if a user sends a response to the authentication service from their designated mobile device and that response contains an appropriate key code as displayed in the UI on the website the user authentication service can complete the user authentication. In this example the service can then notify the host website that the user has been authenticated.

In the example authentication in order to proceed with the user authentication a user will receive the message from the service on their mobile device . In this example the message may comprise a SMS based text message and can include instructions on how to complete authentication. The user can send a reply to the service which includes the text code from the distorted text image in the UI on the browser page . The service having received an appropriate response to the authentication message can notify the host server that the user has been authenticated.

In one embodiment users may wish to access a website that comprises personal information about from the user e.g. a website for accessing an individual s medical records from a clinic . In this embodiment the website may ask a user to log in using a pre registered username and password which can be used by a user authentication service to identify authentication information on the user from a database. However if a user is attempting to access the authentication service for a first time for example certain registration information may be needed by the authentication service in order to process user authentication. As an example a user may need to register a mobile device that can be used by the authentication service for sending authentication messages.

In this embodiment at a website can initiate the service by sending a request and providing a security certificate along with registered user information. At the service provides their domain reference a user interface e.g. in an Iframe and integration code to the website. At a user logs into the host website. At the website validates the primary user login and request service authentication. At the service authenticates the website as the sender and looks for established user information. At if this is the user s first time logging in the user information will not be in the database. At the service returns user not found to the website. At the website asks for a new service authentication. At the service creates a new session user and stores the information in the database. At the service returns that a new user has been created and a CAPTCHA URL e.g. comprising a CAPTCHA image .

At this point in this example a new user has been added to the service s database and when that user logs onto the website the authentication information will be available. At the website displays login request information. At the CAPTCHA URL is request from the service. At the service updates the login session information. At a CAPTCHA image is returned to the browser for display. At an SMS based message is sent to the user s designated mobile device with instructions on how to complete authentication. At a SMS response is returned to the service with an appropriate response code from the CAPTCHA image. At the session is updated in the database. At user initiates an event in the browser per the instructions. At the website validates the primary login and requests service authentication. At the service responds that the user has been authenticated. At the website logs user into secure website location.

It will be appreciated that the techniques and systems described herein are not limited to be used for accessing websites. In one embodiment providing user authentication can be utilized for accessing a secure server or storage system remotely for example. In this example an enterprise system may wish to utilize multi factor authentication to allow a remote user access to the system.

In another aspect a user of the authentication service may designate a mobile device such as a mobile telephone for a second level of authentication where the device may be shared with people other than the user. In one embodiment even though the user may share a mobile device with others the user may not wish that the others authenticate the user s identification for example using the mobile device. As an example a parent may share their mobile telephone with their children however the parent may not wish for the children to attempt to authenticate transactions for the parent using the parent s mobile device.

In this aspect the authentication service may provide an ability for the user to utilize a secret code when utilizing a designated mobile device to authenticate transactions where the designated mobile device may at times be utilized by persons that are not the user e.g. children of the user . In this embodiment for example the user can select a personal identification number PIN that is known only by the authentication service and the user e.g. the parent . Further in this example when the user attempts to authenticate a transaction using their mobile device the user can enter the shared secret PIN into a reply to the authentication service. In another embodiment after a user replies to an authentication request using their designated mobile device for example the authentication service can prompt the user to enter the shared secret code. It will be appreciated that those skilled in the art may devise alternate ways to utilize a secret code in combination with providing a multi factor authentication service. The techniques and systems described herein are not limited to those embodiments described above.

A system may be devised for providing remote Internet user authentication service. is a component block diagram illustrating an exemplary system for providing a multi factor authentication service. The exemplary system comprises a user authentication service for providing remote user authentication to a host server. The user authentication service comprises a user interface UI provider which may be configured to provide a user authentication UI on a host website . As an example the UI provider can display and operate a UI in a cross domain Iframe on host website s webpage.

Further the user authentication service comprises an authentication test message provider which may be configured to provide an authentication test message. For example the authentication test message provider may provide the authentication test message inside the UI on the webpage viewed by a user. In this way in this example the user may be able to use information from the authentication test message to complete user authentication.

Additionally the user authentication service comprises an authentication test message response receiver which can be configured to receive a response to the authentication test message. As an example a user viewing an authentication test message in the UI on the webpage may be instructed to input an authentication key that was sent to a user s mobile device . In this example the authentication test message response receiver can receive the authentication key input by the user.

The user authentication service further comprises a message transmitter which can be configured to transmit an authentication request message to a user s designated mobile device . For example the authentication service may wish to attempt user authentication by sending a SMS based message to a mobile device that was designated by the user during registration with the website . In this way in this example the authentication request message can contain information for completing user authentication thereby utilizing the user s mobile device as a second authentication factor.

The user authentication service further comprises a mobile device response receiver which can be configured to receive a response to an authentication request from the user s designated mobile device . As an example a user receiving an authentication request message may be instructed to send a message to the authentication service containing certain text from the user s mobile device . In this example the mobile device response receiver can receive the message sent from the user s mobile device .

The user authentication service further comprises an authenticator which can be configured to authenticate a user s response to the authentication request and an authentication notifier which can be configured to provide for notification of user authentication to the host website. As an example a user response may need to be from a designated mobile device and may comprise an authentication key that was displayed in the UI. In this example once the user responds to an authentication request the authenticator can determine whether the response meets requirements for authentication. Further once the authentication service has authenticated the user the host website can be notified of the authentication. As an example instruction in the UI may instruct a user to refresh the webpage once authentication is completed. In this example upon refreshing the webpage the website may request user authentication and the authentication notifier in the service can notify the website that the user has been authenticated.

The exemplary system in further comprises source code in the host website which can comprise a reference to the user authentication service . As an example if a reference to the user authentication service s domain is inserted into the host webpage s source code for an Iframe e.g. a cross domain Iframe referencing the user authentication service s domain the user authentication service may be able to control content inside the Iframe. In this way in this example the user authentication service can use the UI in the Iframe on the host website .

The exemplary system further comprises an application programming interface API on the host website configured to facilitate interaction between the host website and the user authentication service . As an example when a user logs onto the website the API can facilitate automatic notification to the user authentication service to initiate authentication. Further in this example the API may facilitate notifying the website that user authentication is complete.

In this embodiment the user interface UI further comprises a status display component which can be configured to display authentication status messages. As an example the status display component may display instructions to a user for completing user authentication. In this example information may be displayed informing the user that a SMS message has been sent to their designated mobile device.

Additionally in this embodiment the authentication test message provider comprises an authentication test generator configured to generate random authentication tests. As an example the authentication test generator may generate random authentication keys to be displayed in the authentication test message display component of the UI . In this way in this example respective authentication keys can be specific to a user s authentication session and may be used to authenticate the user.

In one embodiment the user authentication user interface could comprise an authentication complete component. The authentication complete component may be configured to provide a request in a UI that the user activate an event to notify a host website a user has been authenticated. As an example after a user authentication service has authenticated the user of a host server a message can be displayed in the UI instructing the user to refresh a browser s page e.g. a webpage . In this way in this example upon refreshing the page the host server can request authentication from the user authentication service and the user authentication service can notify the host server that the user has been authenticated.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

