---

title: Higher-performance solid-rocket propellants and methods of utilizing them
abstract: A method, and a related material, for utilizing high performance solid rocket propellants, which are molding powders. A propellant molding powder are selected to have a design burning rate and a tailored compaction profile. A morphology of a center-port of a rocket is selected for the design burn rate and a spin-rate. The molding powder is compacted isostatically around a core through application of triaxial pressure therein forming a solid rocket propellant charge with the selected center-port shape. The solid rocket propellant charge is placed in a cartridge or a case. The cartridge is selected from various types of cartridges and specialty charges. The solid rocket propellant molding powders are highly filled with metallic fuels, and have a binder in the range of 4% to 18%, which at least partially coats the surface of the molding powder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08465607&OS=08465607&RS=08465607
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08465607
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080918
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to solid rocket propellants and in particular to higher performance solid rocket propellants and methods of utilizing them.

High performance is a relative term as one of the highest performing extruded propellant in use is HEN 12 which substantially is a cartridge loaded solid propellant charge extruded from bulk thermoplastic double base DB gelatinized polymeric nitrocellulose nitroglycerin composition. For propellants of this class the binder volume fraction approaches 100 binder as the propellant is also the binder. Achievement of yet higher performing propellant requires filling the composition i.e. replacing a proportion of the polymeric propellant volume with selected solid fillers e.g. metallic fuels oxidizers nitramines and the like thereby yielding a class of propellants categorized as composite modified double base CMDB . For several reasons CMDB compositions having a high solids volume fraction are problematic to extrude. The disclosed invention teaches compositions and methods for utilizing these higher performing compositions.

CMDB compositions are employed when more energy is needed for a finite volume either to achieve higher rocket velocities or to deliver larger ammunition payloads. The energy or more precisely the energy density is defined as the Figure of Merit FM where FM is the impulse per unit mass times the density which is equivalent to the impulse per volume. The impulse is the integral of the force times time or the derivative of momentum with respect to time. As stated in the previous paragraph in order to achieve propellants having a higher Figure of Merit requires filling the composition with metallic fuels oxidizers nitramines and the like and these modified propellants are problematic if extruded. The filled composition typically has a significantly higher viscosity and if it can be extruded the propellant usually exhibits phase separation and or knit lines that poorly re join and re knit. Phase separation and or knit lines are evidence of anisotropic or orthotropic orientation which can lead to disastrous consequences when the rocket is launched. The CMDB compositions are typically cast but there are problems with casting as a thermosetting binder or the like has to be added back into the composition. Another processing method is die compaction using a die press but again there is anisotropic or orthotropic orientation versus the desirable isotropic orientation.

What is needed is a higher performing propellant which can be formed into high L D ratio rocket motors where the resulting motor is a nearly isotropic material e.g. substantially free of anisotropic and orthotropic orientation .

The invention is a solid rocket propellant material where the propellant material is a metallic fuel filled propellant that is a moulding powder having from about 4 percent to about 18 percent by volume of a binder where a surface of the moulding powder has a coating of the binder. An example of a metallic fuel is aluminum.

The invention further includes a method for utilizing a high performance solid rocket propellant The method includes selecting a first solid rocket propellant moulding powder having a first tailored burning rate selecting a tailored compaction profile for the propellant moulding powder selecting an a center port shape where the center port shape influences a propellant s burn rate and a spin rate for the rocket compacting isostatically the first solid rocket propellant moulding powder around a core through the application of triaxial pressure therein forming a solid rocket propellant charge having a center port with the selected shape. The center port shape is substantially a mirror image of a surface of the core. Prior to placing in a cartridge or other case the core is generally removed as potentially it can be reused.

The solid rocket propellant charge is suitable for both case bonded and cartridge loaded applications. Compaction is generally performed on a mandrel therein producing the center port. The center port shape reflects the shape of the mandrel and or the core and the shape determines the surface to volume relationship and therefore influences both how fast the propellant burns and the tangential velocity component produced by the combustion gasses as they exit the rocket. A cylindrical mandrel is used to create a cylindrical bore and if more surface area and a faster burn are needed then a star shaped mandrel can optionally be selected. Rifling can be imparted to the bore to enhance the spin rate adding a stabilizing torque to the rocket. The gaseous combustion products exiting a rocket motor with a twisted or rifled star configuration will have a tangential velocity component and apply a controlled stabilizing torque to the entire rocket for a specified time to achieve a required spin rate and then cease after which the motor may or may not continue to deliver thrust.

In general as compaction around mandrels is possible complex port geometries are feasible less tooling is required and more advanced energy management methods are at hand. Moreover the invention allows ballistic performance options that are not feasible with the state of the art technology typical of rocket type ammunition. Energy density is high and systems tailorable. As previously discussed the moulded powder propellant technology enables the composition to be selected as to a desired energy density without the process limitations of extruded or die pressed propellants. The force and length of time of isostatic compaction will influence how the solid rocket propellant charge burns and the rocket motor is not limited to a single type of charge.

The invention is a solid rocket propellant material including a metallic fuel filled propellant which is a moulding powder having from about 4 to about 18 by volume of a binder where a surface of the moulding powder includes a coating of the binder. and graphically illustrate the thermochemical performances mass and volume based energy densities Iand I respectively of a propellant composition designated PBPW 7 II . In the example ammonium perchlorate AP and aluminum Al are admixed with a fluoroelastomer Dupont s Viton A binder at 10.0 volume. Performance is shown as a function of the metallic fuel Al . Aluminum is parametrically substituted over the range of 0.0 25.0 volume percent for equal volumes of the oxidizer AP . The balance of the composition is comprised of 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazine RDX and 1 3 5 triamino 2 4 6 trinitrobenzene TATB . The binder level is at a median value. Similar compositions incorporating lesser and greater volumes of binder level are feasible. These compositions would include families of curves the performance of which would vary with the binder type and its volume percent. A workable binder volume range is from about 4 to about 18 . For comparison the mass and volume based energy densities of HEN 12 also are shown on the Y axis i.e. HEN 12 contains no Al . Recall HEN 12 is gelatinized polymeric nitrocellulose nitroglycerin composition. As can be seen the addition of a metallic fuel increases the energy density per unit mass of propellant from 235 Ns g to about 255 Ns g an increase of about 8.5 but on a volume basis the increase is about 40 from about 370 Ns ml to about 530 Ns ml . The energy density volumetrically is much higher with the metallic fuel.

The solid rocket propellant material may also be a highly solids loaded solid fueled ramjet material where the metallic fuel of choice in an exemplary embodiment is boron.

At these high filler levels 25 by volume the propellant cannot be extruded and die pressing produces an anisotropic or orthotropic orientation. Isostatic compaction produces a solid rocket propellant charge having a center port wherein the charge is nearly an isotropic material.

The solid rocket propellant material may further include oxidizers nitramines and similar materials. A downside is that while nitramines increase the energy density nitramines also make the composition more shock sensitive.

The binder is selected from the group of fluoroelastomers polyoelfins thermoplastic elastomers fluoroolefins polyisobutylenes and polyisobutylene derivatives. An exemplary example of a polyisobutylene derivative is hydroxylated polyisobutylene sometimes known as R 45 HT. Fluoroelastomers are a class of synthetic rubber which provide extraordinary levels of resistance to chemicals oil and heat while providing useful service life above 200 C. The outstanding heat stability and excellent oil resistance of these materials are due to the high ratio of fluorine to hydrogen the strength of the carbon fluorine bond and the absence of unsaturation.

Referring to the invention is also a method for utilizing the high performance solid rocket propellant. The method includes selecting a first solid rocket propellant moulding powder having a first tailored burning rate selecting a tailored compaction profile for the propellant moulding powder selecting a center port shape where the center port shape influences a propellant s burn rate and a spin rate for the rocket compacting isostatically the first solid rocket propellant moulding powder around a core through the application of triaxial pressure therein forming a solid rocket propellant charge having a center port with the selected shape where the center port shape is substantially a mirror image of a surface of the core and removing and potentially reusing the core. The solid rocket propellant charge is placed in a cartridge or another type of case. The cartridge is selected from the group consisting of aircraft stores eject cartridges solid rocket cartridges and specialty charges.

The method may further include selecting a second and higher solid rocket propellant moulding powder having a second tailored burning rate and compacting isostatically the second solid rocket propellant moulding powder such that the second solid rocket propellant is concentrically layered axially positioned in tandem or otherwise to produce a boost sustain burn profile.

The method may further includes selecting an inhibiting material and compacting isostatically the inhibiting material on areas to prevent them from burning.

An example of utilizing the process follows. The solid rocket propellant moulding powder is isostatically compacted with an isostatic press to form a solid rocket propellant charge utilizing a conformal bladder such as a rubber cylinder having at least one open end and a rigid precisely dimensioned preferably re usable metal core. After compaction the core can be removed and the resulting propellant charge has a net formed center port bore which is precisely dimensioned. The pressurized conformal bladder on the other hand does not confer precise dimensions to the outer envelope of the propellant charge and the resulting charge normally has a slight curvilinear shape such as an hourglass or a banana geometry. In the exemplary method the bladder is filled with the moulding powder and evacuated during and in an exemplary embodiment prior to compaction. Evacuation prior to compaction is effected using a round plate seated proximate to the open end of the cylindrical bladder seated on the moulding powder. The round plate includes a port that is in gaseous communication with the interior of the bladder and an evacuation system. The isostatic press includes a heated jacket with a thermal convection medium to heat and or to cool the contents of the press. Water is a good convection medium as it can be used to either heat or cool the press depending on the temperature of the water. The powder filled bladder is immersed in the press in a hydraulic fluid the lid is closed and the pressure of the hydraulic fluid is raised. A pressure of around 30 Kpsi has been found to effect sufficient compaction for many molding powders. After the moulding powder has fused the pressure is returned to ambient the lid is opened the bladder and propellant charge are removed and evacuation is ceased in the appropriate order. The hour glass and or banana asymmetry in the compacted propellant charge imparted by the compression process is then corrected to the desired geometry using explosive machining. The ends of the rigid core used as a mandrel may be employed as true centers about which the compacted propellant charge may be revolved to machine on a lathe the outer envelope to the required geometry and dimensions. Furthermore the core is facile for performing other turning processes such as tape winding or otherwise applying an incombustible material i.e. an inhibitor in order to control the motor s interior ballistics via the as designed surface to volume relationship of the propellant charge i.e. as dictated by the bore surface history or surface area vs. distance burned . In a variation on the method the compaction may be performed iteratively producing intermediate circumferential explosive machining steps between successive compactions. Alternatively axial compositional arrangements as well as radial compaction are also possible for instance to afford aerostability advantages e.g. alteration of the centroid of mass with respect to the centroid of pressure as the total propellant charge is consumed .

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

