---

title: Process of forming an integrated multiplexed electrospray atomizer
abstract: A process for forming an integrated multiplex electrospray includes forming multiple holes in a ring extractor substrate to create a ring extractor. A nozzle array having multiple nozzles each nozzle defining a central axis is provided. A spacer layer is bonded to either the ring extractor or the nozzle array to form a bonded stack. The bonded stack is then aligned with remaining layer to align each of the multiple nozzles with one of the plurality of holes to less than 10 microns from concentric and the spacer layer then bonded intermediate between the ring extractor and the nozzle array layer. The spacer layer is then etched to provide fluid communication between multiple nozzles and the multiple holes of the ring extractor and form the spacer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08240052&OS=08240052&RS=08240052
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08240052
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080827
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 968 674 filed Aug. 29 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates in general to a process for forming an integrated multiplexed electrospray atomizer and in particular to a process for such formation with improved component alignment.

Electrospray involves breaking the meniscus of a charged liquid formed at the end of a capillary tube into fine droplets using an electric field. The electric field induced between the electrode and the conducting liquid initially causes a Taylor cone to form at the tip of the tube where the field becomes concentrated. Fluctuations cause the cone tip to break up into fine droplets and Coulomb interaction between neighboring liquid ions causes them to separate from one another while being pulled towards the electrode. The droplet diameter has a power law dependence on the flow rate of the fuel D dot over Q for JP 8 diesel Deng et al. 2006a implying that the flow rate has to be decreased to reduce the droplet size. In portable power generation applications this requirement correlates to a flow rate that is too small to be useful.

Small scale portable power systems based on the combustion of liquid hydrocarbons have become of great interest in the last decade Epstein et al. 1997 Fr chette et al. 2003 Walther and Pisano 2003 Kyritsis et al. 2002 . These combustion systems take advantage of the significantly higher energy density available in liquid hydrocarbons when compared to conventional batteries at only 10 efficiency diesel fuel can yield 5 MJ kg 10 times more than the 0.5 MJ kg for primary batteries . Compact combustion devices in the cubic centimeter cm range will likely use catalytic conversion and diffusion controlled combustion requiring the fuel to be delivered as small and rapidly evaporating droplets Deng et al. 2006a .

Multiplexed electrospray is arraying the tubes or nozzles thereby increasing the overall flow rate without affecting the size of the ejected droplets. In order to maximize the flow rate and miniaturize the entire system Microelectromechanical Systems MEMS fabrication techniques can be used to create densely packed nozzles and integrate them with the other components. depicts a prior art multiplexed electrospray atomizer with a ring extractor electrode and a grounded plane. The ring extractor acts to shield the droplet formation region between nozzle array layer and ring extractor from the spray region ring extractor to ground plane where space charge effects become dominant. The ground plane provides a removal force to prevent droplets from flying back to the ring extractor.

Further reduction in the size of the multiplexed electrospray is currently restricted by the manual assembly technique of the components Deng et al 2006a . Current alignment accuracy is limited to 50 m microns and prevents the assembly of smaller than conventional electrospray components. Because droplet characteristics are not affected by the changes in nozzle dimensions improved fabrication and assembly techniques can shrink the nozzle size and increase the nozzle density. Increased nozzle density would allow further increases in device flow rate capability while maintaining sub 10 m droplet diameters.

Thus there exists a need to develop a process to fabricate an integrated multiplex electrospray atomizer with smaller features. There also exists a need to assemble multiplex electrospray components with greater alignment accuracy or precision occurring so as to promote higher electrospray flow rates with desirable droplet sizes.

A process for forming an integrated multiplex electrospray atomizer having a ring extractor a nozzle array and a spacer intermediate between the ring extractor and the nozzle array is provided. The process includes forming multiple holes in a ring extractor substrate to create a ring extractor. A nozzle array having multiple nozzles is provided with each nozzle defining a central axis. A planar spacer layer is bonded to either the ring extractor or the nozzle array to form a bonded stack spacer ring extractor or spacer nozzle array. A spacer layer ring extractor bonded stack is then aligned with a nozzle array or a spacer layer nozzle array layer is aligned with a ring extractor to align each of the multiple nozzles with one of the plurality of holes. The planar spacer of the bonded stack is then bonded intermediate between the ring extractor and the nozzle array layer. The planar spacer is then etched to provide fluid communication between multiple nozzles and the multiple holes of the ring extractor and form the spacer. In a particular embodiment a ring extractor is formed through dual sided photolithography to form a peripheral edge having a ring extractor edge thickness greater than a ring extractor substrate thickness defining the multiple holes.

The need to etch the spacer layer to form a spacer is obviated by the deposition of a thin film dielectric layer on either the ring extractor or the nozzle array layer and bonding the ring extractor to the nozzle array layer with the thin film dielectric located there between resort to a separate spacer layer.

A process for forming an integrated multiplex electrospray including a ring extractor a nozzle array and a spacer intermediate therebetween is provided that includes using MEMS fabrication to form a mold of the ring extractor. A ring extractor is then deposited in the mold cavity and separating the ring extractor therefrom. The mold is optionally bonded to the nozzle array and functions as the spacer layer.

The present invention has utility as a process to assemble an integrated multiplexed electrospray atomizer with superior alignment accuracy thereby making possible more compact devices with higher flow rates and lower operating voltage. Through the manufacture of multiplexed electrospray components and in particular a ring extractor with greater accuracy and techniques facilitating alignment with a bond aligner concentric alignment tolerances of 10 microns or less are obtained between a nozzle central axis and a ring extractor hole. The enhanced tolerances greatly improve performance of the resultant device. Alignment tolerances of less than 5 microns and even less than 1 micron are routinely obtained by an inventive process. In contrast previous alignment processes of such devices only obtained alignment accuracies on the order of 50 microns thereby limiting device scaling and performance.

An integrated multiplexed electrospray atomizer according to the present invention has the same components as provided with respect to prior art and includes a ring extractor which acts upon application of a voltage supporting electrode thereto pulls droplets from a nozzle and shields the nozzles from space charge effects. A spacer provides electrical standoff to provide isolation between differential potentials applied between the ring extractor and the nozzles. Unlike a conventional integrated multiplexed electrospray atomizer an inventive process affords a degree of alignment previously unattainable.

Referring now to transverse cross sectional schematics show the steps of forming a uniform thickness ring extractor through a photolithographic process. A ring extractor substrate is provided having at least one planar surface. A ring extractor substrate is formed from a variety of materials illustratively including semiconductors such as silicon gallium arsenide and silicon carbide metals such as titanium tungsten aluminum copper alloys thereof steel and stainless steel ceramics such as aluminum oxide aluminum nitride silicon nitride and Al SiC and glasses such as quartz and borosilicate. Regardless of the ring extractor substrate an electrode is either formed from a conductive substrate or a conductive layer operative as an electrode is overlaid thereon. It is appreciated that a ring extractor substrate thickness is dependent upon the material selection and correlates with material properties such as structural rigidity and resistance to stress fracturing in the course of subsequent inventive process fabrication. It is appreciated that a ring extractor of excess thickness degrades cone jet operation of the resultant electrospray. Performance degrading attributes of an excessively thick ring extractor include disturbed propagation of the diverging droplet spray as droplets impinge upon the sidewalls of the extractor hole flood the device and stop operation. Excess thickness can be mitigated through resort to conical holes in the ring extractor. It is appreciated that forming of holes at varying cross sectional area through the ring extractor substrate complicates ring extractor formation.

The present invention is further detailed with respect to . It is noted that these figures are dimensionally distorted for illustrative purposes and that the comparative thickness of various layers as well as patterned features have been modified to aid in visual understanding of an inventive process. Like numerals used with respect to different Figures are intended to have a uniform meaning.

With respect to the ring extractor substrate is depicted as having a disparate surface coating . In the instances when ring extractor substrate is a semiconductor or a metal the disparate surface material is typically an oxide or nitride. Representative disparate surface material layers illustratively include silicon dioxide or silicon carbide on silicon titanium nitride on titanium tantalum nitride on tantalum tungsten nitride on tungsten and aluminum gallium arsenide on gallium arsenide. As shown in a photolithographic photoresist is patterned onto the ring extractor substrate . It is appreciated that the disparate surface material is optionally removed prior to patterning the photoresist onto the substrate . In such instances the photoresist is applied directly to a clean surface of ring extractor substrate material . It is appreciated that the etch characteristics of the disparate surface material most often dictate whether this layer is wholly removed prior to application of photoresist . For purposes of illustration according to the disparate surface material layer remains after application of the photoresist . The disparate surface material layer is removed in a patterned manner as dictated by the application pattern of the photoresist . While for purposes of illustration depicts a positive photoresist it is appreciated that a negative photoresist is also operative herein. Preferably disparate surface material layer is etched using reactive ion etching RIE . Other conventional etching procedures are operative herein. As shown in a second photolithography step is performed to etch an array of holes through the ring extractor substrate in a hole array region . While a variety of conventional etch processes as detailed with respect to are operative in the etching of the array of holes preferably deep reactive ion etching DRIE is utilized to maintain dimensional tolerances of the array of holes . Optionally any remaining disparate surface material layer is removed from the etched surface the opposing surface or a combination thereof by processes conventional to the art not shown . By way of example silicon dioxide disparate surface material layer is removed from surface with a conventional stripping solution of aqueous hydrofluoric acid. It is appreciated that retaining a disparate surface material layer on the etched surface the opposing surface or a combination thereof affords advantages in some instances. These advantages illustratively including surface protectant environmental passivation or formation of a conductive electrode.

After the etching of the opposing surface to remove disparate surface material layer in a preselected pattern the array of holes is etched through the surface as shown in . It is noted that this process is consistent with that detailed with respect to with the exception that owing to the increased thickness of substrate the array of holes do not extend through to communicate with opposing surface . Preferably the etch depicted in is a deep reactive ion etching DRIE process and more preferably is to a depth greater than the desired thickness of material defining the etched pits . The front side etched substrate depicted in at is then inverted and attached to a carrier . Conventional forms of adhesion between a carrier and a front side etched substrate illustratively include resort to thermal grease and a polymeric photoresist. A second deep etching step preferably performed by DRIE is performed as shown in through the opposing surface to yield a peripheral edge having an extractor edge thickness greater than ring extractor substrate thickness defining the thickness of the hole array . While the thickness of the hole array is critical to facilitate droplet propagation and impede flow when the thickness of the hole array is excessive no such limitation exists for the peripheral edge thickness . The peripheral edge thickness is typically between 130 and 1500 percent of the thickness of the hole array region . For the exemplary case of silicon the peripheral edge thickness is preferably between 300 and 800 and the hole array region thickness is between 30 and 250 microns The resultant ring extractor is released from the carrier by conventional means such as solvent dissolution of the grease and optionally any remaining disparate surface material layer or is removed by conventional process specific to the nature of the layer 

The formation of a nozzle array formed from a planar nozzle array substrate and having a nozzle array thickness to define multiple nozzles each having a height an inner diameter and having a preselected spacing of nozzles has been previously described Deng et al. 2006a Tang et al. 2001 . It is appreciated that a nozzle array layer according to the present invention is readily formed of the materials detailed from which a ring extractor is formed 

A further integrated formation process is depicted with respect to in which a ring extractor mold is formed by a process detailed with respect to or with the mold being filled with a material to form a ring extractor and the mold also optionally serves as a spacer layer in a completed multiplexed electrospray device. depicts a mold formed from a material used to form a ring extractor material . The mold has protrusions and dimensions complementary to a ring extractor as detailed with respect to . The mold is formed of a material to be preferentially etchable relative to a ring extractor and a nozzle array layer N. The mold is filled with resort to conventional deposition techniques such as electrochemical deposition atomic layer deposition injection molding casting or the like. Any mold overburden is optionally removed with resort to chemical mechanical polishing reactive ion etching or other conventional planarization techniques. It is appreciated that a ring extractor opposing surface is optionally coated with a disparate material layer such as silicon carbide or other such substance to provide a hard coating oxidation barrier chemical passivation or the an electrode layer or multiple layers can be formed to provide multiple benefits. Preferably the mold is formed of a material also having the attributes of spacer layer as shown in . The mold encompassing ring extractor is then aligned and bonded with a nozzle array liner N detailed with respect to . The mold is then preferentially etched to form a spacer as shown in and detailed with respect to .

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

