---

title: Connectorless sea train
abstract: The invention is directed towards a watercraft module and a connectorless sea train including two or more of the watercraft modules. The watercraft modules in the sea train are formed in a bow-to-stern relationship and are held together by compression forces. Each module includes a hull having a bow end having a substantially V-shaped profile, and a stern end having either a continuous end or a substantially V-shaped notch cut therein. The size and shape of the substantially V-shaped notch is substantially similar to the size and shape of the substantially V-shaped profile of the bow end. In the sea train having two or more watercraft modules, the substantially V-shaped profile of the bow end of a trailing watercraft is received in the substantially V-shaped notch at the stern of a leading watercraft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069806&OS=08069806&RS=08069806
owner: The United States of Americas as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08069806
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080805
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an energy conserving sea train and in particular a connectorless sea train arrangement in which two or more watercraft modules travel in a bow to stern arrangement in which a bow of a trailing watercraft is received within a notch at the stern of a leading watercraft.

Conventional shore to shore transportation of large quantities of cargo requires the use of large ships and deep harbors to accommodate for large ships. Because of their size and load cargo carriers tend to consume a significant amount of energy. Generally speaking the prior art does not teach energy efficient cargo transportation vessels having shore to shore capabilities for transporting large quantities of cargo particularly ships capable of entering shallow harbors. Regarding sea trains known arrangements of coupled ships involve flexor connectors in which the loads on these connectors are as high as one half of the weight of a module. The prior art does not teach high speed connectorless sea trains.

In one aspect the invention is a watercraft for a connectorless sea train. The watercraft includes a hull having a top side a bottom side a bow end having a substantially V shaped profile and a stern end the stern end having a substantially V shaped notch cut therein so that the substantially V shaped notch extends from the top side of the hull to the bottom side of the hull. In this aspect the size and shape of the substantially V shaped notch is substantially similar to the size and shape of the substantially V shaped profile of the bow end.

In another aspect the invention is a connectorless sea train for energy efficient high speed travel. The connectorless sea train includes two or more watercrafts. According to the invention each of the two or more watercrafts has a hull having a top side a bottom side a bow end having a substantially V shaped profile and a stern end. In this aspect the stern end may be a continuous end or a notched end. The notched end includes a substantially V shaped notch cut therein so that the substantially V shaped notch extends from the top side of the hull to the bottom side of the hull. According to the invention the size and shape of the substantially V shaped notch is substantially similar to the size and shape of the substantially V shaped profile of the bow end. The invention further includes a bow to stern arrangement of the two or more watercrafts. The bow to stern arrangement includes a first watercraft of the two or more watercrafts and a second watercraft of the two or more watercrafts. In this aspect a bow end of the second watercraft is positioned within a substantially V shaped notch at the stern end of the first watercraft thereby forming a connectorless sea train.

In another aspect the invention is an energy conserving method of operating two or more watercrafts at high speeds. The method includes the providing of two or more watercrafts. In this aspect the method also includes the forming of a bow to stern arrangement with the two or more watercrafts. In the bow to stern arrangement the last trailing watercraft includes a hull having a top side a bottom side a bow end having a substantially V shaped profile and a stern end. In this aspect the stern end is a continuous end or a notched end. In this aspect the notched end has a substantially V shaped notch cut therein so that the substantially V shaped notch extends from the top side of the hull to the bottom side of the hull. The size and shape of the substantially V shaped notch is substantially similar to the size and shape of the substantially V shaped profile of the bow end. According to the method each of the remaining watercrafts in the bow to stern has a hull having a top side a bottom side a bow end having a substantially V shaped profile and a stern end. In this aspect the stern end has a substantially V shaped notch cut therein so that the substantially V shaped notch extends from the top side of the hull to the bottom side of the hull. The size and shape of the V shaped notch is substantially similar to the size and shape of the substantially V shaped profile of the bow end. According to the method the forming of the bow to stern arrangement includes the positioning of a bow end of a second of the two or more watercrafts within the substantially V shaped notch at the stern end of a first of the two or more watercrafts. The energy conserving method of operating two or more watercrafts at high speeds further includes the operating of the bow to stern arrangement at a speed of about 30 knots to about 50 knots wherein compressive forces created maintains the bow end of the second watercraft within the substantially V shaped notch of the first watercraft.

The dimensions are variable depending on the particular application. However according to an embodiment of the invention notch length Lmay be about 0.25 to about 0.35 of the hull length L. Additionally the notch width Wmay be about 0.5 to about 0.6 of the stern width W. The hull length Lmay be about 350 ft to about 650 ft and the notch length Lmay be about 105 ft to about 195 ft. Additionally the stern width Wmay be about 110 ft to about 200 ft and the notch width Wmay be about 60 ft to about 110 ft. In one particular embodiment the hull length Lmay be about 500 ft the notch length Lmay be about 150 ft the stern width Wmay be about 160 ft the notch width Wmay be about 88 ft and the height Hat the bow may be about 75 ft and the height Hs at the stern may be about 60 ft. In this particular embodiment the draft line at the bow end may be about 25 ft above the bottom end of the hull.

As shown in in the two craft sea train the bow end of the second watercraft module is positioned within the stern end of the first watercraft module . The substantially V shaped cross section region at the bow of watercraft module is dimensioned to be commensurate with the substantially V shaped notch at the stern of watercraft module . Thus a complementary connectorless linkage is formed between the two modules and when the bow of module is inserted into the stern of module . In addition to the above connectorless linkage between modules and similar connectorless linkages may be formed between modules and in a three craft sea train. Similarly in four craft sea trains similar connectorless linkages may be formed between modules and in addition to the connectorless linkages among modules and . As illustrated in each V shaped notch may include a bumper arrangement which is dimensioned to protect against jarring and potentially damaging contact between respective bows and sterns.

In operation as outlined above the sea trains include two or more watercraft module each module being substantially identical and interchangeable. The sea trains generally operate at high speeds between about 30 knots to about 50 knots but may also operate at reduced speeds as low as about 10 knots for example. Each watercraft module is self propelled by waterjet propulsors having exit nozzles and as shown in . As will be outlined below and as shown in the exit streams from nozzles and are adjustable to be either a splayed direction or a rearward aft direction . The exit streams may be directed either by rotation of the nozzles and or by using deflectors. The orientation of the exit streams depends on the position of the respective watercraft module within the sea train .

According to the invention a two craft sea train is formed by directing the substantially V shaped bow of the trailing watercraft module into the substantially V shaped notch of a leading watercraft module. The formation of the sea train is performed at reduced speeds. Three and four craft sea trains are similarly formed by directing the bows of additional trailing modules into the sterns of leading modules. The modules in the sea train are loaded up individually. The substantially V shaped notch design allows modules to mate with a reasonable difference in draft allowing each module to heave and pitch. Depending on the size of each interchangeable watercraft module the difference in draft could be as much as 10 ft. As outlined above the V shaped notch which may also include a fender accommodates for both vertical and lateral motion between modules. The waterjet propulsion system provides precise steering so that one module can duck in behind the other and accelerate until the bow is secure in the notch. With all watercraft modules joined up power is increased to full speed.

The drag on the lead watercraft module is significantly greater than on trailing modules. Therefore in the illustration of the drag on the first watercraft module is significantly greater than the drag on trailing modules and regardless of the number of modules in the sea train. The substantially V shaped notch design is very effective in reducing drag on trailing modules in sea trains by masking the bow wetted area and a portion of the bow pressure drag of trailing modules. The reduction in drag on trailing watercrafts is also influenced by the direction of the waterjet exit stream. As shown in the exit stream of leading watercraft modules are directed in the splayed direction preferably at an angle that circumscribes the shape of the bow of the immediately trailing module. Only the last trailing watercraft module directs the exit stream in the aft direction . Therefore the last trailing module has more thrust than any of the leading modules.

In the exemplary embodiment in which the interchangeable watercrafts have a hull length Lof about 500 ft a notch length Lof about 150 ft a stern width Wof about 160 ft a notch width Wof about 88 ft a height Hof about 75 ft the leading watercraft will have a bow wave normally associated with high speed travel. As shown in watercraft module leads the sea train . Subsequent trailing modules and experience flow from the watercraft immediately ahead which has about a 10 ft immersion at the stern end. This flow is expected to impinge the trailing watercraft module at the bow at approximately 15 ft above the bottom side . Thus the trailing modules operate in troughs created by leading modules and there is reduced drag on the trailing watercrafts. Additionally the trailing watercrafts provide an additional pushing force on leading watercrafts. Thus significant compressive forces are created between the watercrafts of the sea train.

As discussed below with respect to resistance and transport factor because of the above outlined factors sea trains as illustrated in conserve energy. More power is required to run the watercraft modules individually than when the modules operate in a sea train. For example in a three craft arrangement the power to operate the sea train is about 50 less than required to operate the three watercraft modules individually. Generally according to the invention sea train combinations provide about 40 to about 50 reduction in resistance in comparison to the modules operating independently. A 10 knot increase in speed for the same installed power is achieved with the sea train configurations.

As shown the single independent watercraft module expends more power combating resistance than each module in the different sea train configurations. Data lines and show the four craft arrangement being the most energy efficient combating resistance followed by the three craft and two craft arrangements respectively. Regarding the four craft arrangement for example at about the 35 knots each watercraft in the four craft unit expends about 35 of the effective horse power output as compared to a single independent module. It should be noted that the chart merely shows test values from embodiments operating at about 15 knots to about 46 knots. However the sea trains as outlined in operate and provide energy savings outside the speed ranges of chart .

The watercraft may be used utilized in a sea train as shown in . However because the stern end is a continuous end watercraft may only be used as a last trailing watercraft in any given sea train arrangement. Therefore returning to in a two craft arrangement watercraft may be substituted for watercraft and used as the last trailing watercraft. In a three craft arrangement watercraft may be substituted for watercraft and used as the last trailing watercraft. In a four craft arrangement watercraft may be substituted for watercraft and used as the last trailing watercraft. Because watercraft may include additional nozzles and at the stern end watercraft can provide a greater thrust than the two nozzle notched watercraft . Thus the additional exit nozzles may be used to provide greater thrust and therefore greater compressive forces in any given sea train. The conditions affecting a sea trains as outlined with respect to have a similar affect on sea trains using watercraft as the last trailing module. Additionally sea train configurations using watercraft as the last trailing module have similar energy efficient benefits as outlined with respect to .

As outlined with respect to the method may involve adjustments in the operation of the sea train based on sea state conditions. For example at higher sea states the speed of the leading watercraft module may be reduced to increase compressive forces between the modules. Watercrafts having a stern end that is continuous and includes additional exit nozzles may be used for the increased thrust and the accompanying increased compressive forces within the sea train. Also in conditions such as Sea State the sea train may be disassembled. The individual watercrafts may then travel in a group of disengaged modules until reassembly is possible. The above outlined method may be utilized for military purposes or for commercial purposes such as short sea shipping for example. In such a commercial application a sea train of two or more watercraft modules may travel along a coastline carrying cargo to a predetermined destination. In the sea train individual watercraft modules may have different destination points so that as one or more individual modules reach their respective destination other watercraft modules may be substituted into the sea train so that energy efficient transportation of cargo continues along the coastline to a final destination location.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Thus although some dimensions are provided for the watercrafts and the sea trains the watercrafts and sea trains may have larger or smaller dimensions. For example hull lengths Lof about 350 ft to about 650 ft have been outlined but the watercrafts may alternatively have hull lengths Lthat lie outside these ranges. Also although the connectorless sea trains are applicable to high speed applications such as from about 30 knots to about 50 knots the sea trains may also be employed in applications of reduced speeds. Additionally although some embodiments of the invention refer to the sea train the watercraft arrangements disclosed are operable and fully functional in any large body of water. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

