---

title: Navigable website analysis engine
abstract: An optimization engine allows website publishers and other network document publishers to view and navigate statistics and scoring methodologies of a search engine. Publishers may thus gain a better understanding of how their website or network document is scored and how to optimize those documents to increase a search engine score. The user is thus able to navigate the network from the perspective of a search engine, viewing webpages, websites, and links in the same way a search engine would analyze them. Upon making changes to a website or network document, publishers may further request on-demand re-crawling of their website or network document to view changes in the score. Alerts may also be activated by a user to notify the user when certain conditions are met.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447751&OS=08447751&RS=08447751
owner: Efficient Systems, LLC
number: 08447751
owner_city: Cheyenne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081118
---
This application is a non provisional application of and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 988 810 entitled SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION ENGINE and filed on Nov. 18 2007 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the invention generally relate to analyzing a network document. More specifically aspects of the invention provide methods and systems for evaluating a network document and providing transparency into the manner in which the network document is analyzed and scored by a search engine. Thus a user may view and navigate a network from the perspective of a search engine.

Providing quality search results on a search engine can be a complex process. Analyzing a given document on a network such as the Internet to determine its relation to other documents on the network requires millions of calculations with each calculation attempting to model human perception as a mathematical or logical formula. Because of this complexity website and other network document owners whose webpages and other documents are the subject of these calculations are often unable to fully appreciate and understand how and why their webpages or network documents are scored by search engines. Without a clear understanding of the analysis and scoring mechanism publishers of websites and other network documents might not be able to capitalize on the ability of search engines to attract users to their websites.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

According to some aspects of the present disclosure an optimization engine may provide a transparent and navigable interface through which website publishers and other network document publishers may view and understand how a website or other network document is scored by a search engine. Thus a user may be able to examine a desired level of scoring detail by selecting a corresponding factor used in the scoring analysis. In one example a user may review how links embedded in the user s website affect the website s score by viewing the scoring methodology and data for those links. Statistics may also be provided to further illustrate how scores are derived.

According to another aspect the optimization engine may provide suggestions for raising a search engine score for a website or other network document. Based on the optimization engine s analysis potential areas for improvement may be identified and methods for making such improvements may be generated. Once changes are made to the website the user may immediately see the difference in score by requesting an on demand re analysis or re crawl of the website.

According to yet another aspect users may be able to set alerts for when a website s score a sub score or some other analysis factor reaches a specified threshold. For example a user may request an alert be sent if and when the number of broken links on a website exceeds two.

One or more of the drawings include registered trademarks such as SEOENG and Search Engine Optimization Engine . Other trademarks may also appear in one or more drawings.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

As will be described in detail below the client devices may be configured to perform searching related operations. The client devices may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in one or more computer readable media such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as one or more memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as the data storage device or from another device via the communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform search related activities described below. Alternatively hardwired circuitry e.g. application specific integrated circuits may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions. Thus aspects described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware firmware and or software.

Referring again to the servers may include one or more types of computing devices such as a mainframe a minicomputer or a personal computer capable of connecting to the network and to communicate with the client devices . In alternative implementations the servers may include mechanisms for directly connecting to one or more client devices . The servers may transmit data over network or receive data from the network via a wired wireless or optical connection. The servers may be configured in a manner similar to that described above in reference to . Additionally the server may include a search engine usable by the client devices . The servers may further store network documents such as webpages accessible by the client devices .

Each of search engine data centers including servers and may be controlled by a deployment infrastructure . In particular deployment infrastructure may be configured to manage software or firmware updates and may be responsible for configuring or upgrading servers. In one or more configurations commands requests and other communications may be received from client via the network on a proprietary communications channel nonpublic . Additionally or alternatively each of data centers may operate independently of one another i.e. without needing to communicate with each other through the use of catalogue .

Referring to calculation boxes may be configured to calculate scores and provide analyses of webpages and websites. In one or more arrangements optimization engine servers of may embody calculation boxes . Scores may be pre calculated or may be calculated on an on demand basis. In one configuration a queue may be used to schedule the processing of requests for re analysis or re scoring. Queue may be viewable from either a dashboard or a scoresheet so that a user may determine when he or she may expect an updated or new analysis.

From any of the above pages a trackback tool may be provided in a header or other portion of the display to allow the user to go back to a previous section of the optimization engine. For example from market focus information a user may be able to track back to website dashboard or scoresheet . The navigation flow illustrated in is but an example of how users may navigate through the content of an optimization engine and is not intended to limit possible navigation flows.

Referring to missing website information includes information such as a number of missing META titles in a website a number of missing META descriptions in the website and a number of missing META keywords in the website . A META title refers to the text that a user will see at the top of a web browser for a given webpage or network document. Typically a META title is defined in HTML using the tags. META descriptions on the other hand refer to words phrases and descriptions that define the content of the underlying webpage or network document. Using HTML META descriptions may be specified as follows . META keywords correspond to terms describing the theme or context of the webpage or network document. Using HTML META keywords may be specified as follows .

Duplicate website information includes a number of duplicate META titles duplicate META descriptions duplicate META keywords duplicate MARKET FOCUS duplicate URL spellings and exact duplicate webpages in the website as illustrated in . Duplicate MARKET FOCUS for example relates to the grouping of categories or contexts associated with a website or webpage. MARKET FOCUS may be determined by the search engine. Duplicate META title refer to webpages in the website that have the same META title while duplicate META descriptions and META keywords refer to webpages having the same META description or keywords respectively. Duplicate URL spellings on the other hand refers to URLs that are spelled the same but with different capitalization.

For each of the above analysis factors an option such as page listing option may be provided to display a list of the webpages or network documents that contributed to that factor. For example in the number of orphaned webpages may include option that identifies the orphaned webpage s . illustrates an example orphaned webpage listing .

Additionally or alternatively various terms or phrases may be foreign to a user. Accordingly such terms or phrases may include an interactive indicator such as a question mark that a user may select to obtain a definition or further understanding. For example in the number of irrelevant webpages and the number of orphaned webpages include indicator . Upon selecting indicator the user may be directed to an explanation page or provided with a pop up window with further details about the corresponding term or phrase. In one example selecting indicator may take the user to a corresponding learning center page containing information and directions relating to how what and why he or she needs to make changes indicated or address the issues identified. Indicators such as indicator may be provided throughout the various interfaces of an optimization engine.

Referring now to link statistics section provides information such as outgoing link analysis incoming link analysis link quality link neighborhood and LINK LOSS . Outgoing link analysis provides information that includes a number of outgoing links in the website number of external outgoing links in the website and number of internal outgoing links in the website . Outgoing links refer to links that are directed to other webpages i.e. not a link within the webpage while the number of external outgoing links refers to the number of links to webpages outside of the website. Number of internal outgoing links on the other hand refers to the number of links directed to webpages within the website. Generally the number of external outgoing links added to the number of internal outgoing links the website will equal the number of outgoing links .

In incoming links analysis provides similar data except that it refers to incoming links. For example analysis includes number of total incoming links number of external incoming links and number of internal incoming links . The number of total incoming links refers to the total number of links from other pages and websites to pages in the website. The number of external incoming links refers to the number of links from other websites to pages in the website while the number of internal incoming links refers to the number of links from pages in the website to other pages in the website.

Link quality analysis displays factors that contribute to the value and strength of links in the website as illustrated in . Thus link quality analysis might include a number of broken links i.e. links that do not lead to a valid destination number of dangling links i.e. links to non indexable or webpages that do not have any followable links number of nofollow links i.e. links tagged with the rel nofollow attribute and number of non editorial links . Non editorial links refer to links that were not mentioned in the context of writing about a particular subject matter that was of importance to the webpage being linked to.

In Link neighborhood provides information such as an average LINK FLOW of external webpages linking to the website and an average LINK FLOW of external webpages linked from the website .

Finally with respect to LINK LOSS shows a user a website s total internal incoming LINK LOSS score total external incoming LINK LOSS score total external outgoing LINK LOSS score and a total LINK LOSS score . LINK LOSS refers to a condition which is caused by inefficient linking. Factors contributing to a LINK LOSS score include external outgoing links dangling links and orphaned webpages. External LINK LOSS refers to LINK FLOW that is being sent out to other websites while internal LINK LOSS is LINK FLOW that is not being preserved in a website due to its internal linking structure. For websites total internal LINK LOSS is calculated by subtracting the total internal LINK FLOW from the maximum theoretical total LINK FLOW which is in turn determined by the formula 1 the number of webpages in that website or set of webpages.

For one or more of the above link statistics factors an option may include an option for displaying links that contributed to the factor score. For example referring to number of outgoing links may include option that displays a listing of outgoing links. illustrates a listing of outgoing links. Each link listing e.g. link listing may include a view link option which highlights the link in the corresponding webpage or network document and a view link scorecard option . Link scorecards are discussed in greater detail below.

Referring to webpage crawl statistics provides information such as a first crawled date and time a last crawled date and time and a number of crawls that have occurred . An option may be provided that displays the website s status in a crawl queue. illustrates an example crawl queue status page .

Referring to alerts page may display all notifications that reflect negatively on the website s score or that a user has selected for display. For example alerts may include the presence of external outgoing LINK LOSS duplicate content duplicate META titles and the like. In one or more configurations alerts page may further display an average response time of webpages in the website. Referring to hovering over an alert may provide a dialog box explaining the alert and suggesting corrective measures.

Clicking on an alert on the other hand may provide a listing of links or pages that are associated with the alert. For example selecting broken links are present alert in may generate a link listing showing all links that are broken. illustrates a broken link listing .

Referring to various website reports may be provided in interface . Reports may include LINK FLOW analysis reports an external incoming link i.e. a backlink analysis report showing the overall interaction of LINK FLOW coming to the website and the like.

Referring to Robots section displays any Robots.txt files that are included in the website. Robots.txt files are directives to automated computer programs used by search engines to crawl the Internet and store information about webpages. For example directives may instruct a robot to not index a certain webpage.

In vital statistics section scoresheet may provide information such as a webpage score a webpage MARKET FOCUS penalties LINK FLOW distribution internal and external incoming LINK FLOWS and respectively total LINK FLOW and total LINK LOSS . A relevance field may further indicate whether the webpage or network document is irrelevant. Scoresheet may further include information such as a content type encoding i.e. how characters and or text are encoded in the webpage response time i.e. how fast a webpage loads and crawl depth i.e. the minimum number of times a website visitor must click on a Link from the root webpage in order to get to a particular webpage .

Webpage score may provide an overall score for the page that is selectable to display additional levels of detail regarding the score. illustrates a webpage scorecard that provides a detailed view of how webpage score of was derived or calculated. For example scorecard summary explains that the webpage score was derived by adding together the total LINK FLOW of the webpage multiplied by 100 and the penalty factor the penalty factor being negative . The percentages may be calculated based on a maximum score penalty factor and total LINK FLOW.

Referring again to selecting the MARKET FOCUS text for example may display a MARKET FOCUS RANK of the various MARKET FOCUS words or phrases that were considered. illustrates a MARKET FOCUS details page that includes a listing of MARKET FOCUS words contexts and phrases considered and their ranks . The MARKET FOCUS rank may be calculated using a shingle analysis which includes considerations of webpage content META title META descriptions and incoming anchor text. illustrate the incoming anchortext analysis and the shingle analysis respectively. For example illustrates the phrases considered and the number of occurrences in the website or webpage. In on the other hand anchor text i.e. text used in a link is measured for LINK FLOW and ranked in accordance with the determined LINK FLOW.

Referring now to link statistics section provides link analysis information similar to that of link statistics section of . However shows link statistic information for the particular webpage and shows link statistic information for the entire website. In particular link statistics section displays outgoing link information incoming link information link quality data link neighborhood information and LINK LOSS analysis . In addition to providing an option to view a listing of links contributing to each of the factors analyzed e.g. factors an option to view the link in the webpage is also provided.

As noted above the optimization engine may provide a listing of links that contribute to one or more factors used in determining the website or webpage score. Referring again to each of link entries may include a view link option and a link scorecard option . Upon selecting link scorecard option a scorecard may be displayed detailing how the link was scored.

Other factors that may be considered in determining a ranking of a webpage a website or a link may include reverse redirect information i.e. which webpages are being redirected to a webpage forward redirect information i.e. which webpages are being redirected to from a given webpage total or alternative search volume by MARKET FOCUS i.e. how many people on the Internet or the network are searching for a given webpage or website age of website statistical deviation analysis of external incoming anchor text i.e. analysis of differences in text being used to link to a particular webpage website purchased or relevant link detection i.e. links being used to subvert a search engine s algorithms and or unnatural keyword stuffing i.e. use of keywords or phrases to subvert a search engine s algorithms .

From the scoring or analysis summary the user may subsequently navigate to a second level of scoring detail in step . For example the user may select a penalties section to view the factors that negatively affected the website s score. In another example the second level of scoring detail may include a breakdown of the overall website score or a subscore contributing to the overall score. In step the second level of scoring detail may be displayed to the user. As with the first level of detail the second level of scoring detail may provide factors and scoring used and generated by the scoring engine in determining the website webpage and link s overall score or rank.

In step the optimization engine may receive a request to view suggestions for improvement. In step the optimization engine may generate and present the suggestions to the user. The optimization engine may generate such suggestions based on the factors negatively impacting the website s score. For example if the website has broken links the optimization engine may suggest that the broken links be fixed to raise the website s score. In step the optimization engine may receive a request to re analyze the website and update the score. Such a request may be received for example once a user has updated his website with certain fixes or made improvements based on the generated suggestions. In step the optimization engine may instruct or request a search engine to re analyze the website in response to the request i.e. on demand . The optimization engine may further re analyze and re display the search engine data to the user. Re analysis may include a re crawling of the website and corresponding webpages network documents and websites. A new scoring summary may then be displayed to the user as in step . Alternatively the re analysis of the website may be queued for a later time e.g. a time when the website is scheduled to be re crawled .

According to one or more aspects an optimization engine may provide a user with LINK FLOW distribution information. LINK FLOW distribution refers to the set of transition probabilities or adjacency functions of a random surfer as determined using node ranking. Further details regarding a method for node ranking in a linked database may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 285 999. Node ranking refers to a numerical weighting to each element e.g. a webpage of a hyperlinked set e.g. a website of webpages of documents such as the World Wide Web WWW with the purpose of measuring its relative importance within the set.

The node rank values are the entries of the dominant eigenvector of the modified adjacency matrix. The node ranking is represented as the dominant eigenvector in the set PR p . The eigenvector may be expressed as 

where the adjacency function l p p is 0 if page pdoes not link to p and normalized such that for each j

That is the elements of each column sum up to 1. The dominant eigenvectors are shown as a result of this calculation embodied as node ranks and assigned to each of webpages in the graph of webpages. By visiting each of webpages a user can see the importance of a webpage in relation to the rest of the webpages in that graph.

By displaying the scoring mechanism of each link s weighting of this probability the optimization engine may display the entire process of the algorithm for node ranking in a linked database rather than simply the final dominant eigenvectors i.e. node rankings which are assigned to each webpage or network document. Providing users with this detailed information may be important to assist them in distributing funneling and controlling the final dominant eigenvectors i.e. node ranking within their website i.e. website . Without this knowledge the method for node ranking webpages in a linked database is essentially a black box. That is while users may know the node ranking of a webpage or network document they do not know the LINK FLOW Distribution or the set of transition probabilities or adjacency functions e.g. l p p that determine those final eigenvectors. Typically website owners simply make changes and wait for the search engine to recalculate the node ranking algorithm and to display the revised results which can take up to a month or more for a typical search engine to re crawl the website . By showing them the LINK FLOW Distribution and by allowing users to request immediate re crawls of a website each adjacency function can be modified to tweak the final eigenvectors by a precise amount. An optimization engine may further provide individual link scorecards for each link within website . Link scorecards each provide a score for the corresponding link.

Using the optimization engine a user may visually navigate through the path taken by a search engine when analyzing a website and crawling through the network of websites or webpages during the analysis. As illustrated above a user may begin by requesting the analysis of a website. In order to determine how the website was analyzed and scored the user may navigate through the analysis essentially following the path taken by the search engine to produce the score. Referring again to a user may begin by viewing the website dashboard displaying an overview of the website for which analysis was requested. The user may then navigate to each of the webpages in the website contributing to the website s score through webpage listings and view a corresponding scoresheet e.g. scoresheet . Scores may be determined based on the same metric and thus an analysis and score for a first page website or link may be compared with a second page website or link respectively using the scores. In one arrangement an optimization engine may provide a comparison of an analysis of the first page with an analysis of the second page e.g. a side by side comparison . A user may drill down to a further level of detail by reviewing factors contributing to each webpage s score e.g. by viewing scorecard . The user may further follow links that are analyzed by the search engine when scoring the website or webpage. Using these links the user may navigate the path taken by the search engine when crawling for data and performing the website analysis. For example from scoresheet a user may view link listings that were analyzed by the search engine. The user may then navigate to link scorecards or proceed to a webpage scoresheet of a linked page using the link. Thus the user is navigating through the network e.g. Internet from the perspective of the search engine.

To provide access to a private label interface such as interface of B a customer or client may place a search bar on their website as illustrated in . The search bar of may include code which allows the optimization engine to remember from where the user originated and will display the appropriate branding even when the user returns at a later date. In particular the optimization engine may associate a user with a particular customer or client s website if they originated from the customer or client s optimization engine search bar even when the user enters via the generic optimization engine s website.

As described in detail above a navigable transparent search engine which can be utilized to inspect how a search engine works may be used to optimize websites and other network documents. Such an optimization engine or tool may reside alongside a traditional search engine and represent the navigation and transparency of that search engine.

It should be understood that any of the method steps procedures or functions described herein may be implemented using one or more processors in combination with executable instructions that cause the processors and other components to perform the method steps procedures or functions. As used herein the terms processor and computer whether used alone or in combination with executable instructions stored in a memory or other computer readable storage medium should be understood to encompass any type of now known or later developed computing devices and or structures including but not limited to one or more microprocessors special purpose computer chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs controllers application specific integrated circuits ASICs combinations of hardware firmware software or other special or general purpose processing circuitry.

The methods and features recited herein may further be implemented through any number of computer readable media that are able to store computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable media that may be used include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic storage and the like.

Although specific examples of carrying out the invention have been described those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are numerous variations and permutations of the above described systems and methods that are contained within the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Additionally numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure.

