---

title: Systems, devices and methods for providing a reward based upon use of a mobile communications device
abstract: The disclosed embodiments provide systems, devices and methods for providing a reward to a user of a mobile communications device. The described embodiments, for example, may include a mobile communications device that exchanges query data and response data, with a computer system over a communications network. The computer system includes an evaluation application operable to determine a predetermined reward based on, at least in part, the received response data. The response data is received by the mobile communications device from the user in response to query data presented to the user by the mobile communications device. The predetermined reward, for example, may affect an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. Also disclosed are systems, devices and methods that include an outcome application, associated with the computer system, that generates an outcome determination based on, at least in part, the response data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07640032&OS=07640032&RS=07640032
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07640032
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080414
---
The disclosed embodiments relate to mobile communications devices and more particularly to systems devices and methods for providing a reward based upon use of a mobile communications device.

Mobile communication devices such as cellular telephones pagers and hand held personal digital assistants PDA s communicate information including at least one of voice and data over a wireless network. Mobile communication devices are being manufactured with increased competing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers. Some mobile communication devices such as select cellular telephones may have an installed application programming computer platform that allows software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless communication device. So beyond their traditional communication functionality mobile communication devices may additionally include the general functionality typically associated with a personal computer.

Systems for providing rewards to users have utilized personal computers and other dedicated computerized devices. One drawback associated with the use of personal computers such as a desktop computer or a laptop computer is that they are either not mobile or they are not conveniently operated while the user is moving about. Other reward based systems have utilized dedicated computerized devices to gather information from or relay information to a user. Such dedicated computerized devices however typically lack the functionality to make them useful to accomplish other tasks.

Therefore it would be desirable to provide a reward system that incorporates a multi purpose mobile communications device.

The disclosed embodiments provide a system and method for providing a reward to a user of a mobile communications device based on the response of the user to query data presented by the mobile communications device.

In one embodiment a mobile communications device comprises an output mechanism operable to generate a user interface and query data associated with an outcome evaluation application wherein the query data determines at least a part of the user interface. The device further includes an input mechanism for receiving response data associated with the query data wherein the response data is further associated with a predetermined reward affecting an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network.

In another embodiment a mobile communications device comprises a communications application enabling data exchange with a wireless network and at least one output device operable to generate a user interface. The device further includes at least one data repository having query data associated with at least one criterion of an evaluation application wherein the criterion is associated with a predetermined standard and wherein at least a portion of the user interface is definable as a function of the query data. The device further includes an input mechanism for receiving response data related to the query data where the response data is at least partially determinative of achieving the predetermined standard and wherein a predetermined characteristic of the response data is determinative of a predetermined reward affecting an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network

In yet another embodiment a mobile communications device comprises at least one output mechanism operable to generate a user interface and at least one memory mechanism for storing data including a communications application and a resident evaluation application associated with query data and response data. The communications application operable to enable data exchange with a communications network including outputting the response data to another computer system across the communications network. The resident evaluation application operable to present the query data on the user interface wherein the query data is associated with information relating to an outcome of a study. The response data is related to the query data and is relevant to a determination of the outcome. Further the response data is determinative of a predetermined reward operable to modify an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the communications network. And the device further includes at least one input mechanism for receiving the response data.

In a further embodiment a mobile communications device comprises a communications application enabling data exchange with a wireless network and a device specific identification number associated with an operational account having account characteristics affecting operation of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. The device further includes an output device operable to generate a user interface and query data received from an outcome evaluation application on another computer system across the wireless network wherein the query data determines at least a part of the user interface. Additionally the device includes an input device for receiving response data associated with the query data. The response data includes the device specific identification number and is further determinable of a predetermined reward generatable by the other computer system across the wireless network. The predetermined reward effective to modify the account characteristics and is associated with the operational account based on the device specific identification number.

In yet another embodiment a mobile communications device comprises a communications application enabling data exchange with a wireless network and an output device operable to generate a user interface. The device further includes query data having a time based response criterion and associated with an outcome evaluation application wherein the query data determines at least a part of the user interface. The device also includes an input device for receiving response data having an associated response time and further associated with the query data. The response time is comparable with the time based response criterion to determine a reward affecting an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network.

In still another embodiment a system for determining a reward based upon usage of a mobile communications device comprises a communications interface enabling data exchange with a communications network. The communications interface is operable to receive response data transmitted over the communications network from a mobile electronic device. The device further includes an evaluation application operable to transmit query data across the communications network to the mobile communications device wherein the query data prompts the user of the mobile communications device to input the response data into the mobile communications device. The mobile communications device also includes a reward application operable to identify a reward based on the response data wherein the reward is effective to modify an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the communications network.

In another embodiment an evaluation system comprises a communications interface enabling data exchange with at least one predetermined communications network wherein the communications interface is operable to receive response data transmitted over the communications network from a mobile electronic device. The system further includes an evaluation application operable to determine at least one outcome based on a comparison of the response data to a predetermined standard. Additionally the system includes a reward application operable to identify a reward based on the response data wherein the reward is effective to modify an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the communications network.

In still another embodiment a method of providing a reward comprises receiving response data from a mobile communications device across at least in part a wireless network where the response data corresponds to a user input associated with query data presented to the user by the mobile communications device. The method further includes determining a predetermined reward based on characteristics of the response data where the predetermined reward affects an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. Additionally the method includes associating the predetermined reward with the mobile communications device. Computer readable medium embodiments of the above described method are also provided.

In yet another embodiment a method of conducting an evaluation comprises configuring a computer system on a communications network with an evaluation application where the evaluation application generates an outcome determination that comprises a decision relating to at least one criterion of the evaluation. The method also includes receiving response data sent from a mobile communications device over at least a wireless network portion of the communications network where the response data comprises an input into the mobile communications device by a user of the mobile communications device in response to query data presented to the user by the mobile communications device and where the query data is associated with the criterion of the evaluation. Additionally the method includes generating the outcome determination based on the received response data.

In another embodiment a system for modifying performance of a wireless device comprises a user account controlling at least one operational characteristic of a mobile communications device on a communications network. The user account includes predetermined account parameters mat define the operational characteristic and the user account is modifiable by a predetermined reward receivable across the communications network from a computer system having an evaluation application. The predetermined reward is based on response data from a mobile communications device received by the computer system over the communications network where the response data corresponds to a user input associated with query data presented to the user through a resident evaluation application on the mobile communications device.

In yet another embodiment a method of modifying a user account associated with a mobile communications device comprises receiving response data from a mobile communications device over a wireless network portion of a communications network. The response data corresponds to a user input associated with query data presented to the user through a resident evaluation application on the mobile communications device where the mobile communications device is associated with the user account and where the user account authorizes operation of the mobile communications device on at least the wireless network portion. The method also includes generating a predetermined reward based on the response data where the predetermined reward affects an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. Additionally the method includes initiating the application of the predetermined award to the user account to modify an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network.

In a further embodiment a mobile communications device in selective communication with other computer devices across at least a wireless network portion of a communications network includes a computer platform. The device further includes at feast one resident evaluation application loaded on the computer platform thereof which causes the selective presentation of query data to a user and which is operable to cause the selective transmission of response data to another computer device on the communications network. The response data corresponds to an input into the mobile communications device by the user in reply to the query data.

In another embodiment a method of earning a reward comprises receiving query data from across a wireless network where the query data corresponds to at least one of an evaluation application a reward application and an outcome application. The method further includes receiving response data corresponding to the query data where the response data associated with a predetermined reward based on characteristics of the response data. The predetermined reward affects an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. Additionally the method includes transmitting the response data to a computer system across the wireless network. Computer readable medium embodiments of the above described method are also provided.

In still another embodiment a mobile communications device comprises a means for receiving query data from across the wireless network where the query data corresponds to at least one of an evaluation application a reward application and an outcome application. The device further includes a means for receiving response data corresponding to the query data the response data associated with a predetermined reward based on characteristics of the response data where the predetermined reward affects an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. Additionally the device includes a means for transmitting the response data to a computer system across the wireless network.

In yet another embodiment a computer system comprises a means for receiving response data from a mobile communications device across a wireless network. The response data corresponds to a user input associated with query data presented to a user by the mobile communications device. The computer system also includes a means for determining a predetermined reward based on characteristics of the response data where the predetermined reward affects an operational characteristic of the mobile communications device on the wireless network. Additionally the computer system includes a means for associating the predetermined reward with the mobile communications device.

Additional aspects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part are obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed embodiments. The aspects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments may also be realized and attained by the means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The disclosed embodiments include systems devices and methods for providing a reward to a user of a mobile communications device based on inputs by the user into the mobile communications device. For example in one embodiment the user supplied inputs may relate to clinically important information associated with a medical clinical trial in which the user is a participant where the reward provides an incentive for the user to provide the clinically important information in a timely manner. Further the disclosed embodiments include systems devices and methods for analyzing the user supplied inputs in order to determine an outcome based on the inputs. For example in one embodiment the user supplied inputs may relate to clinically important information associated with a medical clinical trial in which the user is a participant where the outcome may relate to achievement of a predetermined criterion associated with the clinical trial.

Referring to in one embodiment a system for providing a reward to a user includes at least one mobile communications device that wirelessly exchanges communications data with a computer system across a communications network . Communications data includes query data presented to the user on a user interface such as a display of mobile communications device . An evaluation application associated with computer system may direct the sending of query data from computer system to mobile communications device . Additionally communications data includes response data associated with query data and received from the user through an input mechanism such as a keypad on mobile communications device . Mobile communications device forwards response data to computer system . Further evaluation application may direct an analysis of the received response data resulting in a determination of a predetermined reward assignable to the user based on the content and characteristics of response data . In one embodiment for example predetermined reward may be a reward that affects an operating characteristic associated with mobile communications device . Some non limiting examples of such an operating characteristic may be an available time of use of device on communications network and or a functionality of device such as a game that may be downloaded to and operated by the device. It should be noted however that predetermined reward is not limited to any particular type of operating characteristic and may further encompass any type of good and or service that may be associated with mobile communications device and or its user. As such predetermined reward provides an incentive to the user of mobile communications device to respond to query data . Because mobile communications device may be a highly portable and easily operable device even when the user is moving about the user may consistently carry and conveniently operate device to provide response data in a timely manner. Thus through mobile communications device system provides a user with a convenient and efficient multi purpose tool for use in participating in a reward based program associated with evaluation application .

Referring to in one non limiting embodiment of a method for providing a reward for example the user of mobile communications device is a participant in a medical clinical trial. Computer system and evaluation application are configured for example with query data designed to encourage retrieval of clinically relevant information associated with the trial from the user Block . For example as a clinical trial participant the user may be required to take certain medications and to answer certain questions such as regarding their physical condition at predetermined times. To enable the user to provide this feedback to computer system in exchange for predetermined reward the user may be supplied with resident evaluation application Block . Resident evaluation application works in conjunction with evaluation application to direct the presentation of query data and to direct the collection of response data on mobile communications device and the forwarding of response data to computer system . For example the user may be supplied with mobile communications device loaded with a resident evaluation application . Alternatively computer system can selectively download resident evaluation application and or query data across communications network to a selected mobile communications device operated by the user trial participant. Based on predetermined settings within resident evaluation application such as preset time periods or based on a request by evaluation application or a receipt of query data mobile communications device under the direction of resident evaluation application can present query data in the form of questions to the user trial participant Block and transmit response data in the form of answers from the user trial participant. Such questions may be presented as output to the user by mobile communications device where the output is some form of communication that includes query data . The user may respond to the questions such as by providing an input to mobile communications device where the input is represented as response data . Resident evaluation application may direct the forwarding of response data from mobile communications device to computer system across communications network . Computer system receives response data over communications network from mobile communications . Thereafter based on the receipt content and or other characteristics of response data evaluation application determines predetermined reward Block which is associated with the user Block . Further details of these systems and methods are described below.

Referring to mobile communications device may include a wireless telephone such as a cellular phone a satellite phone a personal digital assistant a two way pager device a mobile personal computer not shown and any other type of portable device capable of sending and receiving communications data across communications network . Communications data may not only include query data and response data but also may include at least one of voice and data packets including voice graphical and text communications information. As such each mobile communications device may communicate to any other device associated with communications network . Additionally mobile communications device may have at least one output mechanism controllable by a processor to generate user interface that when prompted by resident evaluation application includes a representation of query data for soliciting a response from the user. Examples of output mechanism include a display device such as a liquid crystal display or a light emitting diode display an audio device such as a speaker and a tactile device such as a rotating mechanism to create a vibration and or a Braille character generator. Processor may include at least one of a chip and a printed circuit which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them. Examples of the user interface include an image or graphic a predetermined sound and a predetermined vibration pattern and or a predetermined Braille character. Mobile communications device may further include at least one input mechanism that a user may utilize to create an input into mobile communications device represented as response data in association with query data . Examples of input mechanism include a touch screen display at least one key an alphabetic and or numeric keyboard an audio input recognition device such as voice recognition software and dial tone recognition software and any other type of device or mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user.

Additionally mobile communications device may include a communications module application having at least one of hardware software and firmware enabling device the exchange of data instructions within device and enabling the exchange of communications data with communications network . Further each mobile communications device may include a device identification number that may enable mobile communications device to identify itself to a communications service provider . For example device identification number may be a unique identifier associated with device and or the user of device . Communications services provider for example may control access of mobile communications device to at least a portion of communications network . As such communications services provider may require device identification number in order to authenticate device and authorize it for communications on communications network .

Referring to for example one embodiment of communications services provider may associate device identification number to a user account that defines additional device information user information and or account parameters associated with device and or operation of device on network . Examples of additional device information include but are not limited to make model hardware version software version electronic serial number and any other unique identifier associated with the device. Examples of user information include but are not limited to user name user address user telephone number user email address an account number associated with the user and any other unique identifier associated with the user. Examples of account parameters include but are not limited to rate plan available time of use actual time of use data parameters voice parameters multimedia parameters and any other data associated with a characteristic of the account.

Further referring back to mobile communications device has a memory for storing data and or executable instructions such as resident evaluation application . Memory may include at least one data repository component such as physical or virtual memory including at least one of read only memory RAM random access memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electronic programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory magnetic media optical media a soft disk a hard disk and any other type of secondary or tertiary memory.

Resident evaluation application may be a set of executable instructions such as a software application stored in memory of device and operated by processor to carry out functionality on device associated with evaluation application . Resident evaluation application may be loaded onto device at any time such as during the initial manufacturing of device and or during a communication session between device and computer system across communications network . Resident evaluation application may be in communication with a resident query repository for receiving and storing query data and a resident response repository for receiving and storing response data received from the user. In one embodiment for example resident evaluation application may cause output mechanism on mobile communications device to present the user with user interface that includes query data from resident query data repository such as in me form of a text question on a display. The user may enter an alphabetical and or numerical response for example by operating input mechanism such as by depressing keys on a keypad that converts the keystrokes into an electronic format represented by response data . Such response data may be stored in response data repository and may be associated with and or related to the corresponding query data . Then at predetermined instances resident evaluation application may retrieve response data from resident response data repository and forward it across communications network to evaluation application . Such predetermined instances may include for example upon receiving a request from evaluation application and or the user initiating a communications session on communications network .

Communications network may include at least one or a combination of networks for providing at least in some portion a wireless communications transmission between two devices. Examples of communications network include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network an ultra wideband network UWB a ZigBee protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network an 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and a medical network such as a medical implant communications MIC network a telemetry network etc. Examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as Personal Communications Services code division multiple access wideband code division multiple access universal mobile telecommunications system advanced mobile phone service time division multiple access frequency division multiple access global system for mobile communication analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to computer system may beat least one of any type of personal computer mini mainframes and the like. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with the bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing communications data and other data and instructions related to evaluation application to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system may further include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to the bus for storing communications data and other data and instructions related to evaluation application .

Computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a flat panel display for displaying information to a user. An input device is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . For example input device may include but is not limited to alphanumeric keys function keys voice input devices touch screen devices sensor devices such as passive data gatherers accelerometers pedometers physiological monitors and any other type of input receiving mechanism. Another type of user input device may be a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y allowing the device to specify positions in a plane.

The described embodiments relate to the use of computer system such as the embodiment of to manage communications with at least one mobile electronic device to carry out the instructions of evaluation application to send query data and collect response data . According to one embodiment query data and response data are tracked and analyzed by computer system in response to processor executing sequences of instructions contained in main memory in response to input received via input device cursor control or communication interface . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . However the computer readable medium is not limited to devices such as storage device . For example the computer readable medium may include a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave embodied in an electrical electromagnetic infrared or optical signal or any other medium from which a computer can read. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described below. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with computer software instructions to implement the described embodiments. Thus the described embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to the bus . Communication interface provides two way data communication with another device and or network. For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card a digital subscriber line DSL card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface maybe a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Of particular note the communications through interface may permit transmission or receipt of query data response data predetermined reward and another other data and or instructions associated with evaluation application and or system . For example two or more computer systems may be networked together in a conventional manner with each using the communication interface .

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as me Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waives transporting the information. It should be noted that communications network may include any combination of network link local network host computer ISP and Internet .

Computer system can send messages including program code and receive data through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example mobile communications device might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . In accordance with the described embodiments one such downloaded application is resident evaluation application that provides for the local management on device of query data response data and other additional instructions associated with evaluation application .

Referring to evaluation application may be a set of executable instructions such as a software application stored on computer system and operable to generate predetermined reward . Evaluation application may be configured to collect certain types of information from user such as information related to a program a study an evaluation a market analysis a poll a test a game a medical clinical trial a marketing analysis a medical reimbursement a reward program a loyalty program an achievement program a compliance program an advertising campaign an educational program a disease management program and or any other event in which presentation of query data to the user and or analysis of response data may be useful. Further evaluation application may include a reward application that includes a set of executable instructions algorithms tables etc. that may be utilized to review response data in association with the corresponding query data to determine predetermined reward .

Query data may be any data associated with a program study evaluation or any other event associated with evaluation application that present information and or assist in identifying and or collecting data that may be utilized by evaluation application . For example query data may prompt a user to take an action such as to interact with the wireless device to enter information. For instance query data may prompt a user to perform and action such as to call a phone number to take a medication to enter a value corresponding to a perceived level of pain to enter a value corresponding to a reading on a sensing device e.g. a scale a peakflow meter a glucometer blood pressure heart rate etc. to enter a sample into a metering device connected to the wireless device to answer a educational test question to answer a multiple choice question etc. Further for example response data may be any data received from the user of mobile communications device in response to query data . Further query data and response data may contain or may be further associated with respective query data characteristics and response data characteristics that relate in some fashion to the query and response data. For instance query data may be an electronically generated representation of information that is presentable to the user of mobile communications device . For example query data may be presented in the form of text graphics video audio sounds mechanical movements or vibrations and in any other manner to transmit information to a user. Query data characteristics may include at least one of a qualitative quantitative subjective and objective data related to query data such as a numerical value an alpha character or set of characters a descriptive word a time at which the query data was sent to the user a time at which the query data was presented to the user a marker or pointer that identifies other data to which the query data is related an audio sound a mechanical movement etc. Similarly response data may be aft electronic representation of information that is received from the user of mobile communications device . For example response data may result from a mechanical input an audio input etc. Response data characteristics may include at least one of a qualitative quantitative subjective and objective data related to response data such as a numerical value an alpha character or set of characters a descriptive word a time at which the response data was received from the user a time at which the response data was sent to the computer system a marker or pointer that identifies other data to which the response data is related an indicator of the existence of response data associated with a particular query data a response time representative of a difference between a time at which query data was presented to the user and a time at which response data was received from the user audio data sensor data meter data such as from a glucose meter physiological data parameters distance traveled or other pedometer related data acceleration and or velocity or or other accelerometer related data and any other parameter associated with response data .

Predetermined reward may be used in conjunction with evaluation application to encourage the participation of the user of mobile device in the program study evaluation etc. or any other event associated with evaluation application where presentation of query data to user is desired and or where user input is desired for analysis and or to determine an outcome. Examples of predetermined reward include but are not limited to no reward a beneficial reward such as a credit a detrimental reward such as a debit a reward affecting an operating characteristic and or functionality of wireless mobile communications device an ability to operate a predetermined application and or functionality on device an authorization to operate device on at least a portion of communications network such as a wireless network portion and or any other network portion which may be controlled by communication services provider an available time of use for operating device an available time of use for operating device on at least a portion of communications network such as a wireless network portion and or any other network portion which may be controlled by communication services provider an applicable cost and or rate associated with a predetermined operating time or function of device such as may be associated with operation on at least a portion of communications network such as a wireless network portion and or any other portion which may be controlled by communication services provider an ability to retrieve an award such as a link and or a code to use to obtain music videos pictures software applications etc. credits for games ring tones entertainment call minutes text messaging photo exchange media Internet based awards and any other type of reward available within communications network and or outside of communications network.

Additionally evaluation application may further include at least one outcome application that generates at least one outcome determination based on at least in part the received response data and or one or more of response data characteristics query data and query data characteristics . Outcome application may include some combination of a set of executable instructions algorithms tables etc. that comprise a decision making program able to analyze data and establish outcome determination . Outcome application may further be associated with evaluation criterion such as at least one factor associated with a determination of whether or not a particular outcome such as at least one predetermined standard has been achieved. For example predetermined standard may include at least one of a range of values or an individual value that is associated with achieving or not achieving evaluation criterion . Evaluation criterion and predetermined standard may be stored within memory of computer system . As such outcome determination may be a decision or recommendation relating to the analysis performed by outcome application and outcome determination may be based at least in part on at least one of received response data and response data characteristics and their relationship to at least one of evaluation criterion and predetermined standard .

Additionally it should be noted that evaluation application reward application and or outcome application may utilize query data and or response data that is associated with an individual mobile electronic device for making determinations related to an individual user as well as a predetermined grouping of a plurality of mobile communications devices to make determinations about a group of users.

For example as discussed above a clinical trial for a drug or medical device may involve registering qualified participants administering the drug at predetermined times or installing the predetermined medical device and collecting qualitative quantitative subjective and or objective feedback associated with predetermined criteria at predetermined times. For instance the feedback may include details relating to how well the participant feels at a given time how well the participant feels the drug is working test results or objective measurements that form a factual basis as to how well the drug is working etc. This feedback is prompted by query data presented on wireless mobile communications device and then the input into the device is relayed over communications network to evaluation application . Evaluation application and or outcome application then analyze response data . For example this analysis may involve comparing the received data wife known standards and determining whether or not the data meets these predetermined standards. Based on this analysis evaluation application then generates at least one of predetermined reward and outcome determination . Predetermined reward may affect the user of wireless mobile device by affecting an operating characteristic of device such as in one embodiment where device is a cellular telephone by adding free minutes to the user account of the cellular telephone.

Other examples of evaluation application reward application and or outcome application include education programs learning or skills training testing programs diabetes testing programs monitoring programs such as behavior or health management programs surgery preparation and recovery programs etc.

In one non limiting embodiment these programs may effectively manage the minutes on a phone plan associated with the respective mobile communications device For example upon signing up to participate in using one of evaluation application reward application and or outcome application the user of mobile communications device may have a predetermined number of available minutes assigned to an account associated with the mobile communications device. Applications and or may then operate to provide the user with additional available minutes or limit access to a subset of the predetermined number of available minutes depending upon the received response data e.g. depending on if the user completes a survey.

Advantageously the present system allows any party such as a sponsor of evaluation application reward application and or outcome application to purchase and associate apply reward to mobile communications device . This feature allows the present system to present query data collect response data and manage the respective application essentially without the user of mobile communications device having any interaction with a carrier network or network services provider i.e. the provider of the network on which device operates. Thus the present system operates in a transparent manner with respect to both the user and the carrier network or network services provider.

In another embodiment referring to for example system may include a cellular telephone network . The use of cellular telecommunication pathways has been increasing because wireless mobile communications devices such as cellular telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers communicating packets including at least one of voice and data over the wireless network. Embodiments of these smart cellular telephones for example have installed application programming interfaces APIs onto their resident computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device. is a block diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a cellular wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the present system. Cellular telephone network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as cellular telephones communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a cellular telephone network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

Still referring to the embodiment of computer system and evaluation application may be present on the cellular telephone network with any other components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. For example computer system may operate on LAN with additional data repository and Or an additional data management or post processing server . Computer system communicates with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . Carrier network communicates with the MSC through another communications link such as another network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS such as by at least one communications link including both a data network and or the Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the mobile communications devices such as cellular telephones in an over the air protocol such as short messaging service SMS etc.

In the embodiment of each wireless device such as cellular telephone may include a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from computer system or other network servers . Computer platform may include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC may be installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless mobile communications device . ASIC or other processor may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. Memory for example can be comprised of at least one of read only and random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards and any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform may also include a local database that can hold the software applications file or data not actively used in memory such as resident evaluation application query data downloaded from computer system and response data received from the user of cellular telephone . Local database may include at least one of flash memory cells magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape a soft disk a hard disk and any other type of secondary or tertiary memory. Thus in the embodiment of each cellular telephone may be loaded with resident evaluation application and or query data and operable to present query data to the user and collect the corresponding response data and forward the response data across wireless network which may form at least a portion of communication network to evaluation application which assigns predetermined reward .

Thus mobile communications device which can be a part of the system or separate thereto may have at least one resident evaluation application either permanent or temporarily on the computer platform thereof which causes the selective transmission of query data and or response data for that device to another computer device such as computer system on communications network . If device is so embodied query data and or response data is transmitted over an open communications connection from the wireless device to communications network such as an open voice or data call. If device is a cellular telephone and communications network includes a cellular telecommunication network such as shown in then query data and or response data can be transmitted through short message service.

In view of the method being executable on the computer platforms of a device and on computer system embodiments of the system can be implemented with at least one program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a device and or computer system to perform the steps of the method. Such a program can be executed on any single computer platform or can be multithreaded among several computer platforms. Furthermore embodiments include a program that directs a computer device such as computer system to perform the steps of generating predetermined reward and or outcome determination through gathering and processing response data from the at least one wireless device .

For example the computer readable medium can be memory of computer platform of cellular telephone memory associated with mobile communications device and or memory associated with computer system . Such memory can be in a local database such as local database of the device platform and or in another database such as data repository . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other type of storage media.

Further the method embodiments may be implemented for example by operating portion s of system and or network to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of system and or network . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

While the various disclosed embodiments have been illustrated and described it will be clear that the subject matter of this document is not limited to these embodiments only. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments as described in the claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is also contemplated.

