---

title: Systems and methods for monitoring remittances for reporting requirements
abstract: Financial transactions may be monitored for reporting requirements and regulatory compliance. A system provides for receipt of remittances, recognition of payment documents, storage of transaction information, and compliance verification by matching one or more cash equivalent transactions (CETs) made by an individual to determine if the aggregate of the transactions should be reported to meet compliance regulations. Images of the documents may be reviewed by an analyst to determine an account number and/or routing number associated with imaged document. If the information associated with the document reviewed has not been previously reviewed, it may be placed on a list of documents associated with CET transactions such that the document may be determined to be a CET in subsequent encounters with the document without human intervention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078533&OS=08078533&RS=08078533
owner: United Services Automobile Association
number: 08078533
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081021
---
The subject matter described in this application is related to subject matter disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 255 107 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 255 116 each filed on even date and entitled Systems and Methods for Monitoring Remittances for Reporting Requirements. 

The United States another other governments require that certain information be reported in an effort to thwart terrorism and other criminal activities. In the United States the law requires that each person engaged in a trade or business who in the course of that trade or business receives more than 10 000 in cash in one transaction or in two or more related transactions file a Form 8300. The form is filed with the Internal Revenue Service IRS and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FinCEN . Any transactions conducted between a payer or its agent and the recipient in a 24 hour period are considered to be related transactions. Transactions may be related even if they occur over a period of more than 24 hours if the recipient knows or has reason to know that each transaction is one of a series of connected transactions.

Accordingly financial institutions are required to monitor cash and cash equivalent remittances that aggregate up to 10 000. Because financial institutions may receive payment remittances in the form of personal checks or cash equivalents such as money orders traveler checks etc. which share common physical features as personal checks it is difficult to automate a process to differentiate between cash equivalent payments and personal check payments. The effect is that analysts monitor payment activity and may review each and every account that aggregates up to 10 000 in remittances. Because a very large percentage of the 10 000 aggregate alerts are false positives this leads to a waste of resources and creates unnecessary work for the analysts.

Financial transactions may be monitored for reporting requirements and regulatory compliance. A system provides for receipt of remittances recognition of payment documents storage of transaction information and compliance verification by matching one or more cash equivalent transactions CETs made by an individual to determine if the aggregate of the transactions should be reported to meet compliance regulations. Images of the documents may be reviewed by an analyst to determine an account number and or routing number associated with imaged document. If the information associated with the document reviewed has not been previously reviewed it may be placed on a list of documents associated with CET transactions such that the document may be determined to be a CET in subsequent encounters with the document without human intervention.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described in the detailed description section. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Referring to the drawings is an example system for monitoring financial transactions for reporting requirements and compliance. The system provides for receipt of payment remittances recognition of payment documents storage of transaction information and compliance verification by matching one or more financial transactions cash equivalent transactions by an individual i.e. a customer or member to determine if the aggregate of the transactions should be reported to meet compliance requirements. The system provides a cost effective way to review financial transactions in the form of cash equivalents e.g. a negotiable financial instrument such as a cashier s check money market holdings short term government bonds Treasury bills etc. that have a very high degree of convertibility into cash that frees resources e.g. analysts to investigate actual alerts associate with cash equivalent transaction CETs rather than a myriad of false positive alerts.

In accordance with a financial institution may receive remittances by mail from one or more customers . For example the customers may be policyholders of insurance products offered by the financial institution . The insurance products may include property and casualty P C and life. In the insurance industry P C typically includes all risks other than life and health. The financial institution may be part of a larger P C or general insurance industry that helps underpin the economy by assuming the financial risk inherent in many personal and business activities. In other words the losses of a few are shared among all policyholders making the lives of individuals and businesses more financially stable and making it easier to plan for the future. Likewise life insurance plays a role by providing insurance against unexpected events and helping customers plan their financial future. Traditional insurance such as life spreads risk across many persons to insure against loss of life.

The remittances may be processed by a remittance processing capture platform in accordance with the type of remittance e.g. cache check or cash equivalent contained within an envelope received by the financial institution or its processor . The remittance processing capture platform may be a high speed remittance processor such as that available from OPEX of Morristown N.J. The remittance processing capture platform may load unopened mail on a feed conveyor and sort checks and documents in a manner suited for clearing by the financial institution .

Imaging of the checks and documents which is a process whereby images or checks cash equivalents and other documents are captured by an image camera may take place in line with an extraction process to avoid any human intervention until after an image of the transaction has been secured by the remittance processing capture platform . The imaging process may be accomplished on medium to high speed processing equipment such as equipment manufactured by IBM of Armonk N.Y. NCR of Dayton Ohio Unisys of Blue Bell Pa. Banc Tec of Dallas Tex. etc. and is normally performed in financial institution back offices for the capture sorting and distribution of checks and other Magnetic Ink Character Recognition MICR encoded documents. The MICR line refers to the numbers which may include the bank routing number account number check number check amount and other information that are printed near the bottom of a check in magnetic ink in accordance with generally applicable industry standards.

The remittance processing capture platform stored imaged checks and documents in a digitized format. For example information obtained by the remittance processing capture platform may be stored in a database . Captured images of paper items processed by the remittance processing capture platform may be stored in the database for later retrieval and processing by downstream systems and for archival purposes. Transaction data and information associated with the images may be stored in the database for each remittance received by the financial institution . While the database is illustrated as a single database the database may be configured as a plurality of separate or disparate databases interconnected through a network system via any number of switches such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an intranet an extranet the Internet etc.

Data may be extracted from the database and processed by a compliance engine . The compliance engine may monitor and analyze transactions against industry and internal lists to detect high risk entities. The compliance engine may be a crime and compliance software package available from Norkom Technologies. Industry lists such as OFAC Bank of England EU and OFSI may be used to identify high risk individuals and businesses including known terrorists fraudsters money launderers politically exposed persons and black listed persons companies or countries. The lists may be accessed to determine the risk associated with a particular remittance associated with a customer .

The compliance engine may make matches against watch lists in real time or by batch using a combination of comprehensive matching techniques and analytics. For example name matching may be augmented with techniques such as fuzzy logic free text and exact matching to uncover hidden matches and associations. Multiple parameters may be matched including phone numbers date of birth address country and transactional information. When matches are made an alert is may be sent to an investigator or analyst.

The system may include a computer useable medium and a computer device with a processor. As used herein a computer useable medium includes a non volatile medium e.g. a magnetic medium hard disk a solid state disk optical storage Flash memory electrically eraseable programmable read only memory a volatile medium e.g. RAM or an installation medium e.g. a CD ROM a floppy disk a removable disk etc. on which computer programs are stored for loading into the computer device.

The computer device may be any type of computer device with a processor such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a palmtop computer a network computer a personal digital assistant PDA an embedded device a smart phone or any other suitable computer device. For example the system may include one or more server computers with a processor an area of main memory for executing program code under the direction of the processor a storage device for storing data and program code and a bus connecting the processor area of main memory and the storage device.

The database may be stored on the storage device as well as a data communications device such as a modem connected to the bus for wirelessly and or non wirelessly connecting the computer to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an intranet an extranet the Internet etc. software is stored in the computer useable medium and executes under the direction of the processor.

The software may cause the processor to provide and configure the database to store thereon transaction records associated with financial transactions corresponding to the customers and remittances . Each transaction record may be configured to include alphanumeric data pertaining to parameters associated with a particular financial transaction. Such parameters may include alphanumeric data grouped into fields associated with items that may include a payer name payer personal specifics a transaction instrument an account number a PIN a digital signature etc. some of which may be obtained from the MICR line.

At images of the remittances are captured. The remittance processing capture platform may capture images of documents contained in the remittances for storage in the database and later processing by the compliance engine . At it is determined if a remittance is a cash equivalent transaction CET . This may be performed by an analyst who will examine the image of the captured document from to determine if the document is a CET or a personal check. If at it is determined that it is not a CET i.e. the remittance is a personal check then at the remittance is processed as a non CET transaction. The process may then end at .

If the it is determined that the transaction is a CET then at the images of the transaction are reviewed. The analyst may review the images of the document associated with the CET and or other information associated with the CET e.g. the MICR line and determine an account number and or routing number associated with imaged document. As noted this information may be obtained from the MICR line of the document. In some implementations a customer number or some other unique identifier of the customer may be associated with the information obtained from the document to correlate the CET with a customer or individual for compliance processing.

At is determined if the information associated with the document reviewed at has been previously reviewed. For example it may be determined the account number and or routing number has been placed on a list of account numbers and or routing numbers for documents associated with CET transactions. If not then at the information obtained at may be stored. The images account number routing number and customer number may be stored in the database or placed in the list.

At compliance processing is performed. The compliance processing at may be performed after or after if the document had been previously reviewed by looking up and finding the information in the list . The compliance processing may be performed by the compliance engine determine if there is a likelihood of suspicious activity associated with the transaction under review. The compliance engine may examine the customer and an aggregate an amount associated with CETs previously associated with the customer . For example if the customer had multiple related CETs that individually did not equal or exceed 10 000 but in the aggregate exceeded 10 000 an alert may be generated at . Additionally or alternatively a single CET may exceed 10 000 and generate an alert at . The alert may be passed on to analyst for further review and the process ends at .

Thus the operational flow provides a mechanism whereby a document associated with a CET is examined by an analyst a first time the document is encountered and information identifying the document is put on a list. A subsequent encounter with the document does not require analyst intervention as the document is assumed to be associated with a CET because the information identifying the document is already in the list.

If it it is determined that the remittance is not an actual cash remittance then at a type of mail of the remittance is determined. For example at the mail may be either clean mail or white mail. Clean mail is a remittance received in a standard envelope provided by the financial institution to the customers for returning remittances. White mail is a remittance that is received in a regular envelope. If at the remittance is clean mail then at the mail is processed using high speed remittance processing. The clean mail may be processed by the remittance processing capture platform and imaged at . The imaging of paper documents associated with the remittance may capture data associated with the paper items within a particular remittance such as account numbers routing numbers etc. An extraction file associated with the imaging process performed at is then created at . The extraction file may be an XML file that is created by the remittance processing capture platform .

If at grey mail is found then money orders contained within the remittances are identified. Grey mail may be mail that was received in an envelope provided by the financial institution however might not contain expected documents within the envelope or may have been damaged during the high speed processing at . As such the grey mail may be processed using lower speed processing at . Also if the mail was found to be white mail at then the white mail may be processed using the lower speed processing. At identified money orders and other items may be manually sorted into cash equivalent transactions and personal checks. Items may be fed as specific batches during processing.

At image processing is performed. The remittance processing capture platform may image the grey mail and the white mail items to capture images of paper items within the remittances . Data from the items may be captured and stored within the database . With respect to the grey mail and white mail items processed at the extraction file may be created or appended to include these items at .

After the extraction file is created at the extraction file may be published at . Here the extraction file may be made available for the compliance engine for compliance processing. At CET filtering and profiling is performed and at alerts may be generated based on the profiling. An alert may be CETs that in the aggregate over a rolling 12 month period equal or exceed 10 000. The profiling and alerting may be performed by the compliance engine and will be described in greater detail with respect to the operational flow illustrated in .

Referring to an analyst may sign on to an application for viewing alerts and payments at . At a listing of alerts and payments may be provided to the analyst. The listing may be generated based on the profiling and alerting performed in and . At CETs associated with a particular customer are populated in a user interface and at an option to view images of documents associated with the CETs is presented.

At the analyst may access the images of the documents identified in the user interface presented at . At the analyst may review the images and at determine if the transactions are all CETs. If transactions are all CETs then at it is determined if the activity appears to be suspicious. If the activity is not suspicious at then at the alert status is changed to closed. At the analyst may document reasons why the CETs do not require compliance reporting and the process ends at .

If at the activity does appear to be suspicious then at the analyst may document reasons why the activity does appear to be suspicious. At a case is created that is referred to an investigator at . At a case status flow procedure may be performed by the investigator to determine if the activity is suspicious after a more detailed analysis. If it is determined at at the activity is suspicious then at a secondary review may be performed. If the the activity is not suspicious then an audit review and signoff may be performed at and processing ends at .

Where there is suspicious activity at and a secondary review is performed at then at it is determined if the secondary review agrees that there is suspicious activity. If not then at an audit review and signoff is performed and the process then ends at . Where there is agreement at then the case sent back to the investigator at for compliance reporting at . The process then ends at .

Referring again to at if the transactions are not all CETs then at the transactions are marked as non CETs. At the alert is closed and at the process ends.

Referring now to there is illustrated an exemplary process for compliance processing. The exemplary process may be performed at and shown in . At the published extraction file created or appended at is received. The extraction file may be received by the compliance engine for compliance processing. At and identified CETs unknown CETs and non CETs are identified from the extraction file received at . At it is determined if a particular CET is unknown. If the CET is unknown an include exclude is accessed at . The include exclude list may include non CETs identified by an analyst at that may be added to the include exclude list at or those added by the process . At it is determined if the unknown CET from should be included in the include exclude list. If the transaction is to be excluded as a non CET at then the process ends. The CET may be excluded if an account number and routing number for the CET match a CET on the include exclude list.

If it is to be included as a CET on the list at then it is confirmed that the candidate CET is a CET at . Step may be also be reached where a CET is not unknown at . If the CET is confirmed to be a CET at then a profile associated with a customer or individual making the CET may be updated at . The profile may be associated with a customer making the CET by a customer number or other identifier. In some implementations the profile may be updated to indicate a false positive alert that will include a non CET payment as a negative value to adjust the profile downward. The profile may be updated in instances where the CET is not in the include exclude list at .

At if the CETs and unknown CETs in the profile aggregate to 10 000 or more within the profile an alert is generated at . At an analyst receives the alert generated at . As noted above the alerts are CETs that aggregate to more than 10 000. At a listing of alerts and payments may be provided to the analyst. The alert listing may be CETs that aggregated over a rolling 12 month period to 10 000 or more. At payments associated with a particular customer are populated in a user interface and at an option to view images of documents associated with the payments is presented.

At the analyst may access the images of the documents identified in the user interface presented at . At the analyst may review the images of the documents and at determine if the transactions are all CETs. If all transactions are all CETs then the process may return to to determined if the activity appears to be suspicious. If at not all payments are CETs then at the non CETs are marked and the alert status is changed to closed at . The process then ends at .

Thus illustrate processes to receive review image and analyze cash equivalent transactions for regulatory and reporting compliance. A CET may be analyzed a first time by an analyst and subsequently compared to an include exclude list to reduce or eliminate the need for human intervention during processing.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

