---

title: Securing appliances for use in a cloud computing environment
abstract: An originator of an appliance can independently secure the appliance for instantiation in the cloud, separate from the security level of the cloud. The originator can secure the appliance utilizing a secure rights application. The secure rights application can be configured to “wrap” an appliance in a security container. The security container can limit access to the applications and operating systems contained in the appliance, but allow the appliance to operate normally once instantiated in the cloud. The secure rights application can be configured to cryptographically secure the appliance in order limit the ability of unauthorized parties from accessing the components of the appliance while maintaining the functionality of the appliance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210173&OS=09210173&RS=09210173
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09210173
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081126
---
This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

In the cloud computing environment the resources used by the cloud may not be under the direct control of the owner or operator of the cloud. The cloud may utilize third party computing systems in the cloud s pool of resources for hosting applications and appliances. As such the owner and operator of the cloud cannot guarantee or control the security of applications and appliances running on the third party systems. In turn the users submitting applications and appliances to the cloud may be wary of using the cloud computing environment due to possible security concerns.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for securing appliances in a cloud computing environment. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which originators can secure appliances with rights management while maintaining the ability of the appliances to operate in a cloud computing environment.

A cloud computing environment can utilize resources deemed to be both secure and insecure e.g. resources under the control of the cloud and resources provided by independent third parties . According to embodiments an originator of an appliance can independently secure the appliance for instantiation in the cloud separate from the security level of the cloud. To achieve this the originator can secure the appliance utilizing a secure rights application.

According to embodiments the secure rights application can be configured to wrap an appliance in a security container. The security container can limit access to the applications and operating systems contained in the appliance but allow the appliance to operate normally once instantiated in the cloud. The secure rights application can be configured to cryptographically secure the appliance in order limit the ability of unauthorized parties from accessing the components of the appliance while maintaining the functionality of the appliance. The secure rights application can be configured to associate access to the components of the appliance with an access record. The access record defines users allowed to access the component of the application the level of access the users possess and the authentication information for the users.

According to embodiments once the appliance is wrapped in the security container the security container can be configured to authenticate a particular user requesting access to the components of the appliance. The security container can be configured to receive authentication information from the particular user and grant access to the components of the appliance deemed accessible to the particular user. The security container can be configured to communicate with an authentication server in order to verify the authentication information and determine the access rights of the particular user. The authentication server can be maintained by the originator of the appliance or by an independent and trusted authority.

By allowing an originator to secure appliances before distribution to the cloud the originator can control and manage access to the components of the appliance. As such the originator can utilize the cloud computing environment without concern for the security of the clouds or resources supporting the appliance.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system because the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set of resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in a set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other number of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

According to embodiments an originator can desire to instantiate an appliance in the cloud . Originator may not be assured of the security of appliance being instantiated in the cloud . For example due to resource availability the cloud may instantiate the appliance in the third party resources or the other clouds . As such third parties may have access to the appliance .

According to embodiments the originator can independently secure the appliance for instantiation in the cloud separate from the security level of the cloud . To achieve this the originator can secure the appliance utilizing a secure rights application . The secure rights application can be configured to wrap the appliance in a security container . The security container can be configured to limit access to the components contained in the appliance but allow the appliance to operate normally once instantiated in the cloud .

According to embodiments the appliance can include one or more software modules implementing an application combined with a minimum amount of an operating system MiniOS to allow the software modules to run on virtual machines or resources executing in the cloud . The appliance can be any type of software appliance such as those described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 040 831 filed Feb. 29 2008 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0222805 published on Sep. 3 2009 assigned to Red Hat Corporation entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DYNAMICALLY BUILDING A SOFTWARE APPLIANCE the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. While described above as containing an operating system the appliance can include one or more software modules without the OS included in the appliance. As such the appliance can include the necessary logic APIs to communicate with the execution platform of the cloud .

According to embodiments the secure rights application can be configured to cryptographically secure the appliance in order limit the ability of unauthorized parties from accessing the components of the appliance while maintaining the functionality of the appliance . As such the secure rights application can be configured to generate the security container around the appliance and to apply the security container to the appliance . The security container represents security protocols applied to the components of the appliance as well as the access control protocols and rights management protocols for accessing the components of the appliance .

The secure rights application can be configured to include the necessary logic to perform any known security protocols in order to provide secure access to the appliance and establish access rights for users. The secure rights application can be configured to apply authentication protocols secure login passwords checks digital signatures authentication digital certificate authentication etc encryption protocols symmetric cryptography asymmetric cryptography etc. and the like to the appliance . For example the secure rights application can be configured to encrypt portions of the components of the appliance and or to apply authentication and access control protocols to the components of the appliance . The secure rights application can be configured to generate and include with the appliance an access control module . The access control module can be configured to operate as the access gateway to the appliance .

According to embodiments the access control module can be configured to grant access to certain users to the components of the appliance . The access control module can be configured to allow the appliance to operate normally according to the functionality of the appliance while limiting access to access and modify the components of the appliance . The access control module can be configured to include logic commands instruction programming APIs and the like to communicate with the components of the appliance to grant access to the components and carry out the functionality of the appliance . The access control module can be configured to perform authentication secure login passwords checks digital signatures authentication digital certificate authentication etc encryption symmetric cryptography asymmetric cryptography etc. and the like. For example the access control module can be configured to decrypt any components of the appliance in response to a valid request for access. Likewise the access control module can be configured to communicate with the OS of the appliance to control access to the components of the appliance .

For example the appliance can be configured to include a content server and necessary OS to function as a web storefront when instantiated in the cloud . As such the secure rights application can be configured to generate the security container and the access control module that allows the appliance to operate as a web storefront but limit access to the content server and OS to certain users. For example the access control module can be configured to allow all requests for content via the APIs of the content server during the operation of the appliance . Likewise the access control module can be configured to limit the ability to modify the settings and parameters of the content server and OS to certain users.

According to embodiments the secure rights application can be configured to set different levels of access for different users. The levels of access can be set by the originator . For example the originator can be enabled to access and perform all operations associated with the appliance e.g. modifying the application and OS adding new applications and OS removing applications and OS configuring applications and OS . Whereas the cloud management system can be granted limited access to the components of the appliance for example only enough access to configure the applications and OS to operate properly in the cloud .

According to embodiments the secure rights application can be configured to associate access to the components of the appliance with an access record . The access record can be configured as any data structure capable of storing the information necessary to provide access control to the appliance . For example the access record can include information such as identification of users allowed to access the components of the application the level of access the users possess and authentication information for the users.

According to embodiments once secured the originator can be configured to provide the appliance to the cloud . The originator can be configured to provide the appliance via a network . The network can be any type of network such as the Internet or other public or private network including network . The originator can provide the appliance utilizing the secure rights application or any other combination of software and hardware of the originator .

According to embodiments once the appliance is wrapped in the security container the security container can be configured to authenticate a particular user requesting access to the components of the appliance via the access control module . The access control module can be configured to receive authentication information from the particular user and grant access to the components of the appliance deemed accessible to the particular user. To achieve this the access control module can be configured to communicate with an authentication server in order to verify the authentication information and determine the access rights of the particular user. For example the access control module can be configured to transmit a verification request via the network . The verification request can include the authentication information of the requesting user and an identification of the appliance .

According to embodiments the authentication server can be configured to receive the verification request from the access control module and to verify the authentication information with information contained in the access record . For example the authentication server can be configured to search for the user s identification in the access record compare the authentication information with the information stored for the user and retrieve the access rights of the user. Once verified the authentication server can be configured to send a verification response back to the access control module . The verification response can include an indication if the user is allowed to access the components of the appliance and if so what access level does the user possess.

According to embodiments once the verification response is received the access control module can be configured to grant access to the appliance based on the verification response . For example the access control module can examine the verification response for the indication that the user is allowed access and grant access based on the access level contained in the verification response .

According to embodiments as illustrated the authentication server can be maintained by an independent authentication authority . The authentication authority can be configured to include the necessary hardware and software to perform the verification as described above. Likewise the authentication server can be maintained by the originator . Additionally the authentication server may be a component of the secure rights application . One skilled in the art will realize that any entity trusted by the originator can maintain the authentication server .

Processor also communicates with the secure rights application to execute control logic and allow the originator to secure the appliance as described above and below. For example the secure rights application can operate in conjunction with OS to allow a user to configure and generate the security container and the access control module . Other configurations of the originator associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

While illustrates the originator as a standalone system including a combination of hardware and software the originator can include multiple systems operating in cooperation. The secure rights application can be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by the originator as illustrated or other conventional computer platforms. Likewise the secure rights application can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the secure rights application can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language.

Additionally the authentication server can be implemented in the originator as illustrated in . As such the processor can also communicate with the authentication server to execute control logic and allow access to the appliance as described above and below. Additionally the access record can be maintained in the storage device .

In the secure rights application can secure the appliance . The secure rights application can generate the security container and access control module for the appliance . The security container represents security protocols applied to the components of the appliance as well as the access control protocols and rights management protocols for accessing the components of the appliance . For example the secure rights application can be configured to apply authentication protocols secure login passwords checks digital signatures authentication digital certificate authentication etc encryption protocols symmetric cryptography asymmetric cryptography etc. and the like to the appliance . The secure rights application can be configured to encrypt portions of the components of the appliance and or to apply authentication and access control protocols to the components of the appliance .

The access control module can be configured to allow the appliance to operate normally according to the functionality of the appliance while limiting the ability to access and modify the components of the appliance . For example the access control module can be configured to perform authentication secure login passwords checks digital signatures authentication digital certificate authentication etc encryption symmetric cryptography asymmetric cryptography etc. and the like. For example the access control module can be configured to decrypt any components of the appliance in response to a valid request for access. Likewise the access control module can be configured to communicate with the OS of the appliance to control access to the components of the appliance .

In the secure rights application can generate the access record for the appliance . The access record can be configured as any data structure capable of storing the information necessary to provide access control to the appliance . For example the access record can include information such as identification of users allowed to access the component of the application the level of access the users possess and the authentication information for the users.

In the secure rights application can be configured to send the access record to the authentication server . If the authentication server is separate from the originator the secure rights application can be configured to transmit the access record via network . If the authentication server is located at the originator or a part of the secure rights application the secure rights application can be configured to transfer the access record to the authentication server or provide the authentication server with a reference to the access record .

In the originator can provide the appliance to the cloud . For example the secure rights application can be configured to communicate with the cloud e.g. the cloud management system to deliver the appliance . Likewise the originator can provide the appliance to the cloud via network utilizing any combination of hardware and or software.

In once in the cloud the appliance receives a request for access to the appliance . For example the request can be received by the access control module . The request can be received from any entity associated with or in communication with the cloud . The request can include the authentication information of the user requesting access.

In the appliance sends a verification request to the authentication server . For example the access control module can send a verification request to the authentication server that includes the authentication information of the user and an identification of the appliance being accessed. In the appliance can be configured to receive a verification response from the authentication server . For example the access control module can receive a verification response that includes an indication that the user is authorized to access the appliance and the level of access the user has to access the appliance .

In the appliance grants access to the appliance based on the verification response . For example the access control module can receive the verification response and grant or deny access based on the verification response . If access is granted the access control module can undertake the necessary steps to grant access to the user. For example the access control module can communicate with the appropriate components of the appliance to remove any security and grant access to the components associated with the user s level of access.

While the invention has been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

