---

title: Open API digital video recorder and method of making and using same
abstract: An apparatus, system and method of a digital video recorder. The apparatus, system and method include at least one memory device, a plurality of communication access points for receiving at least one program play, and an open application programming interface associated with the at least one memory device for programming a plurality of applications to operate on the at least one program play. Each of the plurality of applications correspondent to said open application programming interface manipulates metadata associated with ones of the programs plays. The metadata may relate to interactivity with detailed, non-topical aspects of the ones of the program plays.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307299&OS=09307299&RS=09307299
owner: 
number: 09307299
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080507
---
The present invention is directed to application software and more particularly to an open API digital video recorder and a method of making and using same.

At present consumers of television programming have available the ability to record programming and play back such programming at a more convenient time. This ability is typically provided by a digital or personal video recorder or similar type of device having a hard disk memory associated with a CPU and associated software in the form of a subscription service that provides programming information and the ability to encode data streams. Such products herein referred to as DVRs typically allow the viewer to pause at any time and continue playing or to record a program for viewing at a later date in manner a similar to the prior art video cassette recorder VCR .

The software associated with a DVR typically is capable of a certain limited number of functions including providing a user interface to access programs and limited topical information related thereto calling out to a service provider over any of a number of available calling out methods downloading channel guide updates and downloading software updates for the unit itself.

In the available art the applications that provide these capabilities for the DVR software are provided with the unit upon purchase and or are downloaded upon use of the unit. Applications other than those referenced above are generally unavailable for use with such units and further the programming interface that allows for the creation of applications other than those referenced above is closed meaning only those having access to the unit with explicit permission of the creator of the unit have the ability to write or modify applications for the unit.

Therefore the need exists for a DVR the provides applications not previously available in part by providing an open API apparatus system and method.

The present invention includes an apparatus system and method of a digital video recorder. The apparatus system and method include at least one memory device a plurality of communication access points for receiving at least one program play and an open application programming interface associated with the at least one memory device for programming a plurality of applications to operate on the at least one program play. Each of the plurality of applications correspondent to said open application programming interface manipulates metadata associated with ones of the programs plays. Further the metadata may relate to interactivity with detailed non topical aspects of the ones of the program plays.

Thus the present invention provides a DVR the provides applications not previously available in part by providing an open API apparatus system and method.

It is to be understood that the FIGURES and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for the purposes of clarity many other elements found in typical interactive and application programming interface API systems and methods. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other elements are desirable and or required in order to implement the present invention. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

The DVR of the present invention may thus have accessible thereto a plurality of communication media types including but not limited to cable television channels satellite television channels the worldwide web email capabilities data including video and audio libraries and the like each of which communication media types may form the basis for the creation of a program play in which one or more programs audio or video is presented to a user. In prior embodiments television programs that play through the DVR have associated therewith a limited amount of metadata that is indicative only of aspects of the television program such as time of the program play length of the program play title of the program play description of program play and significant actors or actresses associated with the program of the program play. The limited metadata associated with the program play received over one or more of the respective communication access points is then made available in the prior art for limited manipulation by the user with regard only those aspects of the program play with which metadata is associated. Because the API of prior art DVR technology is closed programmers are not afforded the opportunity to make greater use of information in any respective program play.

The present invention provides via an open API DVR an accessibility by the DVR to program plays or applications over any of a plurality of communication access point types mentioned hereinabove as well as to play program plays of any communication media type as also mentioned hereinabove. As such a myriad of applications may be written by programmers for operation on or in any of the variety of communication media and for operation over nearly any communication accent point type and such applications may be pushed pulled or accessible over any of the aforementioned communication access points.

Such applications written for the open API of the present invention may provide improved interactivity by for example exposing via the application metadata associated with each and every aspect of the program play on any given communication media. For example metadata may be associated with each word spoken sound made and picture shown in any given program play such as a television or radio program and as such programmers may expose via the open API information not merely contained within or directly associated with the program play but that is rather associated with the metadata associated with the program play. Such metadata may be made accessible to the user via for example application software in the form of a program play overlay in which an overlay user interface is placed at the forefront of the program play currently in view of the user which program play is a television program in the example immediately hereinabove. Such an overlay may take the form of for example an overlay that provides links dropdown menus windows or other readily accessible user interfaces. Further it will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that applications may be written that provide multiple windows menus or the like simultaneously to a single user wherein each window plays over a television interface and provides a different program play and consequently a different overlay to the user thereby providing an enhanced version of the known picture in picture program plays.

As mentioned hereinabove the metadata associated with a particular program play of a particular communication media may allow for a hook to accessibility of any aspect of the program play including but not limited to externally accessible media such as other program plays starring the same actor other program plays starring the same musician advertising related to goods illustrated in the program play purchasing points for goods illustrated in the program play external information such as World Wide Web www or Web information regarding items illustrated in the program play and the like. Such external information may be accessible via a user activation of aspects of an overlay on the program play or the accessing of certain aspects of the overlay may lead the user to menus windows or the like outside the program play and the desired information may be accessible from such menus windows or the like.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the open API DVR may allow and application having an eBay overlay placed on a particular television show such as The Antiques Roadshow and the user may thereby access via the overlay similar items available on eBay to those items being illustrated in the show. Alternatively rather than the eBay overlay being placed upon The Antiques Roadshow the program play of the communication media television which is received by the DVR via the communication access point cable or satellite eBay an affiliate or a third party programmer may create a unique channel for reception by the DVR over a different communication access point that shows still photographs videos audio or the like that relates to items of frequent interest to buyers of eBay goods and the eBay overlay be placed thereover to allow a user to access further information with regard to those goods or access points of purchase. As such eBay may create its own unique communications media channel for display over television and may send this new channel for communication to the DVR via WiMax or the like and as such new television channels can be created for access via communication access points not generally used currently by televisions.

In an additional exemplary embodiment a user may be viewing a highly fashion related program play such as Desperate Housewives on ABC in which different fashions or accessories are highly prevalent. If all such information associated with that program play is metatagged the user may access information on the fashions being worn or the accessories being used and such information may include accessibility to other external information such as comments from fashion editors available purchase points of the items of interest and external payment sites to allow for the purchase of those items of interest.

In an additional exemplary embodiment a user may enter to an application pulled to the DVR via the open API a list of that user s fantasy sports players. The present invention may make available to that user a menu listing those fantasy sports players and the location at which those fantasy sports players may be watched recorded or auto recorded on any communication media via any communication access point in real time. Additionally certain players may be highlighted such as when that particular player s team possesses the ball so that the user may switch between communication media or communication access points to in a targeted manner allow that user to watch that user s players. Additionally and alternatively with regard to this exemplary embodiment an application may allow the user to open multiple windows to watch multiple of that user s players in real time and may maintain in each window an overlay or may display in a separate window the menu of fantasy players or may allow the user to toggle between the menu and the video or audio of the games being played.

Thus for example a user may select what events certain actions by the DVR are to trigger on such as autorecording certain events such as each time a football running back entered into the fantasy football menu interface scores a touchdown. As such a user can create his or her favorite or most frequently accessed metatags and the metatags may be placed on all content and on the user s accessing of all content.

In a broader sense these exemplary embodiments illustrate that one or more applications pulled or pushed via the open API to the DVR may allow the user to assess in real time that the user may watch multiple programs of interest record multiple programs of interest auto record one or more programs of interest on or off site such as via a selectable toolbar generated in accordance with a unique application use multiple windows of interest simultaneously be presented with multiple overlays of interest be presented with multiple menus of interest all of which may allow the user to access multiple pieces of information or external information not currently available to the user via a television program play. Further for example as discussed hereinabove the user may use an application software overlay while watching a football game for example to access information on the types of shoes worn by that user s favorite player where the user may buy the jersey worn by that user s favorite player may access an online purchase point for those shoes or that jersey and may pay using an on line point of payment account such as PayPal all from the DVR of the present invention.

As such the present invention may provide a highly targeted marketing tool for advertisers in that each user will access information of interest to that particular user thereby ensuring that an advertiser s advertisement is played to a user that is most interested in the item being sold. Thereby advertisers will have less need to place ads in program plays in which 99 of the viewers of the program play are not interested in the item being sold. Further the present invention will allow such commerce interaction by each user to be uniquely tracked.

Not only will the addition of metadata add more targeted marketing opportunities such as to make television ads into drill downs rather than just thirty second videos but additionally the addition of metadata will allow add on programming associated with television shows which is presently found on line on the Web to be brought back to the television media. For example on line universes that are created for association with shows on television may via metadata menus and or overlays that access the metadata allow for those on line universes to be brought back on to television.

Further the applications written for the DVR are of the present invention may as do present DVR s collect metadata on use by the user of the DVR as mentioned hereinabove. Without violation of privacy laws such information may using the applications for the open API discussed herein be passed to third parties and the metadata may be collected thereby allowing third parties to generate yet more targeted advertising more targeted programs plays and more communication media such as communication channels of interest to the highest number of users.

In light of that discussed hereinabove the open API of the DVR of the present invention may provide hooks into all items of interest and into the operating environment of the DVR and the exposure of those hooks via the open API will allow third parties to tie into those hooks. Further users can access applications associated with those hooks via the metadata tags associated with those hooks. Such metadata tags may allow for example applications that make use of overlays video overlays water marking auto pause auto record toolbars menus and the like. The applications so generated may be locally processed on the DVR such as for certified applications or can be streamed to the DVR or can be associated with entirely new externally generated communication channels. Additionally as discussed hereinabove although the DVR may have associated therewith some local storage vast quantities of remote storage may be made available such as at external sites accessible via WiMax or the like. As such a user may be charged for any level of desired storage for programming and will not be limited for storage by the hardware of the DVR resident within the user s home.

Thus the present invention may make available any of a variety of communication channels and any of a variety of applications for accessing metatags associated with the communication media being played on any of those communication channels. For example a real estate channel may be made available and the real estate available on the real estate channel may be targeted to the preferences entered by the user of interest. Alternatively a completely interactive gaming channel may be made available wherein trivia games casino games or the like may be made available in accordance with user preferences and actions undertaken by the user may be received by the DVR as metadata that may be made available to third parties. Alternatively complex interfaces may be made available via a metadata feed. For example a user may watch a nature show on the Discovery Channel and may hear or see mention of an animal of interest to that user. The user may then access such as via an overlay a link associated with that animal of interest. That link may provide the user with access to for example Google Earth which may allow for illustration to the user of all animals of that type anywhere in the world that have been tagged and placed back into the wild and that are open to sponsorship by a user. The user may be then given the option to sponsor one of the animals in a location of interest to the user and in the event the user selects an animal to sponsor an on line payment interface such as PayPal may be accessible to the user for payment of the sponsorship fee. Alternatively either within the program play on the Discovery Channel or after drilling down to the animal of interest the user may be presented with a mention of a country of interest to the user such as Botswana. The user may pause and either exit the program play via the overlay or may exit the Google Earth interface displaying the animals of interest and may redirect to find information such as on Wikipedia on Botswana. After the user has redirected a sufficient number of times to receive the information of interest to the user with regard to Botswana the user may elect to be redirected back to the initial location of interest which in this example is either the program play or the information on the animal of interest.

The present invention may also include social networking. Such social networking may include videoconferencing video messaging or placement of personal information or personal ads on line or placement of video or audio generated by a user that the user would like to make accessible to third parties from the communication access points accessible to the user via the open API DVR thus making the user the star of his or her own show.

The present invention may additionally include for example a mobile DVR wherein DVR features accessed via mobile televisions televisions not within the home residence navigation screens within vehicles or the like accessible to any of the aforementioned communication access points and such mobile DVR may communication with the home open API DVR.

Although the invention has been described and pictured in a preferred form with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure of the preferred form has been made by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of construction and combination and arrangement of parts and steps may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

