---

title: Processing of interactive screens for a wireless device
abstract: A method for processing interactive screens for a wireless device is provided. The method includes receiving, from the wireless device, a download request for content. The method further includes determining whether the wireless device has an interactive screen associated with the content. If it is determined that the wireless device has the interactive screen associated with the content, the method further includes transmitting the content to the wireless device without transmitting the interactive screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08630634&OS=08630634&RS=08630634
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08630634
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080327
---
The subject application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 209 490 filed on Aug. 23 2005 and entitled Processing of Interactive Screens for a Wireless Device which is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 232 917 filed on Aug. 30 2002 and entitled Server Processing of Interactive Screens for a Wireless Device now U.S. Pat. No. 7 039 398 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to wireless networks and computer communications across wireless networks. More particularly the invention relates to the processing of an interactive screen by one or more servers for display on a wireless device when the wireless device attempts to access or download a software application or data from the one or more servers.

Wireless devices such as cellular telephones communicate packets including voice and data over a wireless network. Cellular telephones themselves are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held personal digital assistants PDAs . Some wireless devices such as select cellular telephones may have an installed application programming computer platform that allows software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless device.

On the Internet and other open networks it is known to provide a user of a computer an interactive form when the user seeks to download or access software applications or data such as an end user license agreement EULA release or verification form as to age location or non commercial status prior to letting the user download the application. The user then must interact with the form which sends a confirming signal back to the application download server and then the user is given access to the application desired downloaded. However the Internet and most LAN or WAN networks are wire based or otherwise have inexpensive data connectivity such that bandwidth is easily available to provide interactivity between the browsing computer and the application download server. Thus the transmission of the end user license agreement or other verification forms and return of the confirming data does not take up significant network resources. Conversely in a wireless network environment such as cellular telecommunications any network connection for data transfer is expensive and the use of a user interactive form to traverse the network prior to application download has traditionally been prohibitive.

Consequently it is desirable to provide an interactive mechanism to a wireless device by which the user of the wireless device must interact prior to accessing data over a network. Such a mechanism needs to account for the limited bandwidth and other characteristics associated with the wireless network.

In accordance with one embodiment a method for processing interactive screens for a wireless device is provided. The method includes receiving from the wireless device a download request for content. The method further includes determining whether the wireless device has an interactive screen associated with the content. If it is determined that the wireless device has the interactive screen associated with the content the method further includes transmitting the content to the wireless device without transmitting the interactive screen.

According to another embodiment a system for supporting a wireless device is provided. The system includes means for receiving from a wireless device on a wireless network a download request for content. The system further includes means for determining whether the wireless device has an interactive screen associated with the content. Further included in the system is means for transmitting the interactive screen and the content to the wireless device. If said means for determining determines that the wireless device has the interactive screen said means for transmitting transmits the content to the wireless device without transmitting the interactive screen.

According to yet another embodiment a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by said machine causes said machine to perform operations is provided. The instructions include at least one instruction for receiving from the wireless device a download request for content. The instructions further include at least one instruction for determining whether the wireless device has an interactive screen associated with the content. If it is determined that the wireless device has the interactive screen associated with the content the instructions further include at least one instruction for transmitting the content to the wireless device without transmitting the interactive screen. If it is determined that the wireless device does not have the interactive screen associated with the content the instructions further include at least one instruction for transmitting the interactive screen prior to the wireless device before transmitting the content associated with the download request.

In still another embodiment of the present invention a method for processing interactive screens for a wireless device comprises receiving a request sent across a wireless network to download data to the wireless device and transmitting an interactive screen and destined for the wireless device prior to transmitting data destined for the wireless device. The method may further comprise receiving a signal indicating an interaction of the wireless device and the interactive screen and transmitting the downloaded data requested by the wireless device. Also receiving the request sent across a wireless network may be received by a first network server and transmitting the interactive screen may be performed by a second network server. This may also may upon receiving a signal indicating an interaction of the wireless device is received by the second network server wherein upon the second network server sending a signal to the first network server indicating the interaction and the first network server transmitting the downloaded data requested by the wireless device.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a system for processing an interactive screen for a wireless device with a first network server and a second network server comprises the first network server in selective communication with a wireless network and in selective communication with the second network server and the second network server in selective communication with a wireless network and in selective communication with the first network server wherein the first network server receives a request for download data from the wireless device communicates the request to the second network server and the second network server transmits an interactive screen to the wireless network destined for the wireless device.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a method for processing an interactive screen on the graphic display of a user interactive wireless devices including a computer platform the wireless device selectively communicating with a network server and downloading applications and data therefrom the method comprises attempting to transmit data to the wireless device from the network server across the wireless network and transmitting a interactive screen to the computer platform of the wireless device across the wireless network prior to downloading the requested data to the wireless device.

Objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent after review of the hereinafter set forth Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

Systems and methods are anticipated that provide for the downloading of software applications to a wireless device. Software applications can come pre loaded at the time the wireless device is manufactured or the user may later request that additional programs be downloaded over cellular telecommunication carrier networks where the programs are executable on the wireless device. As a result users of wireless devices can customize their wireless devices with programs such as games printed media stock updates news or any other type of information or program available for download from application download servers through the wireless network.

In one scenario if the user of the wireless device desires to download and use a software application using the wireless network the user will typically either call a service provider or contact the service provider through other means such as through an Internet access and the service provider will either transmit the application to the wireless device across the wireless network or allow the user access a network site where the application is downloadable or accessible. To connect to the application download server the wireless device bridges a communication connection to the wireless network such as a cellular network and then attempts to contact an application download server where the desired software application is resident. Once the wireless device contacts the application download server an initial connection is made and the application download server determines what application are available to the wireless device and sends the appropriate information such as a menu for display on the wireless device so the user can learn of the available applications. Once access is provided to the downloadable applications the user of the wireless device can download any of the available applications.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing an interactive screen on the graphic display of a wireless device when the wireless device attempts to download or access data or applications on a network server such as an application download server across a wireless network. The interactive screen allows the limited access of individual applications and data on the network server. The interactive screen can be transmitted to the wireless device from first network server that the wireless device computer platform is attempting to navigate or the interactive screen can be transmitted to the wireless device from a second server on the wireless network. The interactive screen can include graphics text multimedia components data entry fields or hyperlinks all of which are displayable and interactive on the graphic display of the wireless device and the system requires the end user to properly interact with the screen in order to download or access the requested applications or data.

Examples of the interactive screen are EULAs which require the end user to agree to certain terms before being allowed to download a software application or a verification form that requires the end user to input data in order to have the requested access to the applications or data on the network server. Once the user of the wireless device interacts with the interactive screen displayed on the graphic display of the wireless device in the proper predefined manner the wireless device sends a signal to the first or second network server indicating the proper interaction and the first network server will then allow the access or download of the requested application or data to the computer platform of the wireless device. When a second network server has provided the interactive screen to the wireless device the second network server can also receive the interaction data from the wireless device and relay the interaction data to the first network server whereby the first network server then allows the download of the requested data to the computer platform of the wireless device.

It is therefore one object of the present inventive system and method to provide an interactive screen that can be displayed to the user of a wireless device seeking to download or access a specific application and data on a network server such as an application download server. The interactive screen the operator of the network server the ability to selectively control the access the user of the wireless device has to the network server resident applications and force users to enter EULAs or input data before being allowed to access the applications and data. With the use of a separate network server that can provide the interactive screen to the wireless device and store the interaction records the system can conserve bandwidth and resources of the wireless network while controlling access to the applications and data of other network servers. The present invention thus provides an advantage in that it gives an operator of a network server the ability to have wireless device users execute agreements or verify facts prior to granting the user the ability to download or access applications and data resident on the application download or network server without significant use of the bandwidth and resources of the wireless network and network servers.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates an embodiment of a system for providing subscribed software applications to one or more wireless devices such as cellular telephone in communication across a wireless network with at least one network server such as application download server that selectively downloads or provided access to software applications or other data to the wireless devices across a wireless communication portal or other data access to the wireless network . As shown here the wireless device can be a cellular telephone with a graphics display a personal digital assistant with PDA screen a pager with a graphics display which is shown here as a two way text pager or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and a display and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The system can thus be performed on any form of remote computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers access terminals telephones without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server is shown here on a local server side network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network such as a database with stored applications and data that contains software applications and data that are accessible and downloadable to the wireless devices and . There is also shown a second network server which is an interactive screen server and with stored interaction database . In such embodiment the interactive screen server transmits the interactive screen to the wireless device and as below described and the stored interaction records database which can be resident on the interactive screen server stores the individual records for the interactions with the wireless devices that the interactive screen was provided to the data input by the end user and any other interaction related data. Through the separate interactive screen server and stored interaction records database many other network servers such as application download server can have the system provide the interactive screens to control access to network server resident applications and data without significant use of the network server resources. However interactive screen server and stored interaction record database are not necessary as server side functions can be performed on one server such as application download server . Further a computer server side computer platform can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices and across the wireless network .

The wireless device such as cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform also allows the wireless device to interact with data and applications resident on network servers. The computer platform may include among other components a display driver that drives the graphics display and renders images on the graphics display based upon graphics data received at the computer platform . The computer platform also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold the software applications not actively used in memory such as the software applications downloaded from the application download server . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

The wireless device such as cellular telephone can access and download many types of applications such as games and stock monitors or simply data such as news and sports related data. The downloaded data can be immediately displayed on the display or stored in the local database when not in use. The software applications can be treated as a regular software application resident on the wireless device and and the user of the wireless device can selectively upload stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution on the API . The end user of the wireless device and can also selectively delete a software application from the local database .

As shown in the system displays an interactive screen and on the graphic display of a wireless device such as cellular telephone upon the wireless device attempting to access or download data from a network server such as application download server across the wireless network . The system transmits an interactive screen to the computer platform of the wireless device either from the server containing the request application or data or from a second server such as interactive screen server . The interactive screen and will appear to the user on the graphic display prior to the network server downloading or allowing access to the requested data or application. The operator of the network server can thus control the access of the wireless device and to individual applications and data through using the interactive screen and . As an example in an end user license agreement EULA interactive screen is displayed to the end user on the graphic display when the user seeks to download a software application from application download server . The user must indicate agreement with the EULA in order to download the application and can interact with the EULA on the API of the computer platform. Typical APIs provide a movable cursor on the display that can activate icons as is well known in the art and other graphic user interfaces can be used such as a touch screen and stylus that is common in PDA interfaces. Whatever the end user inputs in response to the EULA is signaled back to the application download server either directly from the cellular telephone or indirectly from a signal sent by interactive screen server indicating the user interaction.

As another example of an interactive screen illustrates an age verification form that requires the user to input their age prior to being granted access to age restricted material on the network server. The user thus enters his her age in response the screen and the cellular telephone transmits the input data to an appropriate network server such as application download server or interactive screen server . Some processing can occur either at the server where the data is requested or at the interactive screen server to determine if the input age meets the criteria. If the interactive screen server processes the data it can transmit an affirmative or negative signal to the requested data server to authorize the access of the wireless device.

While the interactive screen and can be transmitted to the wireless device and from the network server that the wireless device attempted to access or download data from one embodiment includes the use of another network server such as interactive screen server and an associated stored interaction records database to conserve the resources on pure application servers such as application download server . Thus upon a wireless device attempting to download or access data or an application on a first network server across the wireless network such as application download server the interactive screen is transmitted to the wireless device and from a second network server such as interactive screen server across the wireless network . In such embodiment once the user of the wireless device and interacts with the interactive screen displayed on the graphic display and of the wireless device and the wireless device sends the signal indicating the interaction to the second network server interactive screen server and the second network server sends a signal to the first network server application download server indicating the interaction at the wireless device such that the first network server is now allowed to provide access or download the requested data or application to the computer platform of the wireless device and . If the interactive screen requires input of data such as verification form in once the end user of the wireless device and inputs data on the interactive screen the wireless device and sends the input data to the second network server interactive screen server the second network server again sends a signal to the first network server application download server indicating the input of data at the wireless device and and that the first network server can provide access or downloading the requested data or application. The use of the interactive screen server as a second network server allow faster provision of the interactive screen and storage of interaction records especially with a stored interaction records database than would be possible with all functionality occurring on a single network server such as application download server . The increase in system speed translates to decreased data transfer time across the wireless network which conserves the expensive bandwidth of the wireless network .

The interactive screen can be provided to the wireless device and at any interval during the wireless device network server interaction. The system can transmit the interactive screen to the wireless device to block access to a specific application a dataset or even a file level on the network server data may be held on a network server in a file structure such as in Windows UNIX and LINUX . Further the transmission of the interactive screen can occur at any time an application or data is sought accessed or downloaded by a wireless device or if a one time EULA was necessary a record of the wireless device and execution of the EULA can be stored for example on stored interaction records database . A comparison can be made by a network server such as the interactive screen server when a wireless device seeks to download an application or data and if the wireless device has a EULA stored then the interaction screen provision is unnecessary and the system can let the download proceed.

In one exemplary embodiment the process executed on the computer platform of the wireless device and is shown in the flowchart of . The wireless device such as cellular telephone bridges a connection to the wireless network as shown at step such as a cellular network and then connects to a network server such as application download server as shown at step . At some point while connected to the application download server the wireless device will request to download an application as shown at step or will seek to otherwise access data that has limited access. Thus after the request is made at step a decision is made as to whether an interactive screen and has been received at the computer platform of the wireless device as shown by decision . If an interactive screen and has not been received then the process proceeds to determine if the requested application has been received at decision . Otherwise if the interactive screen and has been received at decision the interactive screen and is displayed on the graphic display and of the wireless device and as shown at step .

After the interactive screen and is displayed a decision is made as to whether the user has interacted with the interactive screen and as shown at decision or in other words the wireless device waits until the user interacts with the interactive screen and so it can send a signal and or data back to the interactive screen transmitting network server such as application download server or interactive screen server . If the user has not interacted with the interactive screen and at decision the process reenters decision in a wait state until the user does interact with the interactive screen and or exits the download request. If the user has interacted with the interactive screen and at decision then the interaction data or a signal is transmitted from the wireless device and to the appropriate network server as shown at step .

A decision is then made as to whether the request application has been received at the computer platform of the wireless device and or that the requested access has been granted as shown at decision . If the application has not been received or access has not been granted at decision then the process is terminated as the download or access was unsuccessful. If the application was successfully received at decision the application is installed at the wireless device and as shown at step . If the request was for access to data or applications on the network server then the wireless device and will have access to the data or applications.

With reference to an exemplary embodiment of the process executing on the application download server or other type of network server is shown in a flowchart. A connection with the wireless device and is entered as shown at step . At some point the application download server will received a request from the wireless device and to download an application or access resident data as shown at step . Once the request is received at the application download server it is determined if interaction with the wireless device user is required as shown at decision . The determination can be made based upon any criteria that the operator of the network server chooses such as the owner or the wireless device the nature of the subject matter of the application or data requested accessed or downloaded. If an interaction with the wireless device user is not required at decision then the requested application is downloaded to the wireless device and as shown at step . If interaction is required at decision then an interactive screen and is transmitted to the wireless device and necessitating that the user interact with the interactive screen and before the requested download or access is permitted.

A determination is then made as to whether the wireless device user has properly interacted with the interactive screen and such as affirmatively entering a EULA or entering a correct age as shown at decision . The interaction signal or data can be sent either directly from the wireless device and requesting the application and displaying the interactive screen and or can be a signal or data sent from a second network server such as interactive screen server which originally received the interaction signal or data from the wireless device. If the wireless device user has not properly interacted with the interactive screen and at the wireless device and at decision a notice of refusal to download the application to the wireless device and or denial of access is returned to the requesting wireless device as shown at step . If the wireless device user has properly interacted with the interactive screen and at the wireless device and at decision then the requested application is downloaded to the wireless device or access to the requested application granted as shown at step .

The system thus provides a method for displaying an interactive screen and on the graphic display and of a user interactive wireless device and including attempting to download or access data on a network server such application download server across the wireless network transmitting a interactive screen and to the computer platform of the wireless device and across the wireless network prior to downloading or accessing the requested data or application and displaying the interactive screen and on the graphic display and of the wireless device and . The method can also include interacting with the interactive screen and at the wireless device and sending a signal to the network server application download server or interactive screen server from the wireless device and indicating the interaction and downloading or accessing the requested data or application at the network server with the computer platform of the wireless device and . If the interactive screen and allows wireless device user input of data the method further comprises the steps of inputting data on the interactive screen and displayed on the graphic display and of the wireless device and sending the inputted data from the wireless device and to the network server processing the input data at the network server and selectively downloading or granting access to the requested data or application at the network server.

Transmitting an interactive screen and to the wireless device and across the wireless network can include transmitting an interactive screen and to the wireless device and from a first network server such as application download server that the wireless device requested to download or access and application or data or can be transmitting an interactive screen and from a second network server such as an interactive screen server across the wireless network . If the interactive screen server is used to provide the interactive screen and to the wireless device the method can include the steps of interacting with the interactive screen and displayed on the graphic display and of the wireless device sending a signal from the wireless device to the second network server indicating the interaction sending a signal from the second network server such as interactive screen server to the first network server such as application download server indicating the interaction at the wireless device and and downloading or accessing the requested data or application resident at the first network server to the computer platform of the wireless device and . And if the interactive screen and allows wireless device user input of data at the wireless device and the method can further include inputting data on the interactive screen such as verification form in displayed on the graphic display and of the wireless device and sending the input data from the wireless device to the second network server such as interactive screen server sending a signal from the second network server to the first network server such as application download server indicating the input of data at the wireless device and and downloading or accessing the requested data or application at the network server to the computer platform of the wireless device and .

The invention further includes a wireless device and including a computer platform and a graphic display and thereon where the wireless device and in selective communication to one or more network servers across a wireless network with each network server selectively downloading data and applications to the wireless device and . Upon the wireless device and attempting to download or access data on a network server across the wireless network the computer platform of the wireless device receives an interactive screen and transmitted across the wireless network and the wireless device and displaying the transmitted interactive screen and on the graphic display and thereof. If the interactive screen and allows user input of data at the wireless device and the wireless device then allows the user to input data on the interactive screen and displayed on the graphic display and of the wireless device and and the wireless device sending the inputted data to the appropriate network server such as application download server and interactive screen server .

Another embodiment includes a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a wireless device having a computer platform to perform the inventive steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the computer platform of the cellular telephone or other wireless device or can be in a local database such as local database of the cellular telephone . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In the context of the method may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the wireless network to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions such as wireless platform the application download server and interactive screen server . The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the wireless network . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

