---

title: Proboscis extension reflex platform for volatiles and semi-volatiles detection
abstract: The present invention provides an apparatus for the detection of volatile and semi-volatile chemicals using the olfactory abilities of honey bees that are trained to respond to the presence of a specific chemical in a sample of gas with the proboscis extension reflex (PER). In particular, the geometry and arrangement of the parts of the apparatus are such that the amount of surface area in contact with the sample of gas prior to its introduction to the bees is minimized to improve the detection of particular volatile and semi-volatile that have a tendency to “stick” to contacting surfaces, especially certain chemicals associated with explosives and narcotics. According to another aspect of the present invention, a pre-concentrating means is incorporated with the device to effectively increase the concentration of “sticky” chemicals presented to the insects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07841226&OS=07841226&RS=07841226
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 07841226
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080229
---
This application claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of Provisional Application No. 60 975 948 filed on Sep. 28 2007.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to LANS Contract No. DE AC52 06NA25396 between the United States Department National Nuclear Security Administration and Los Alamos National Security LLC for the operation of Los Alamos National Laboratory.

The present invention relates generally to the detection of volatile and semi volatile materials and more particularly to the use of insects to assist in the detection of volatile and semi volatile materials especially sticky volatile and semi volatile chemicals that have a tendency to adhere to contacting surfaces are present in low concentrations and are commonly associated with certain types of explosives and narcotics.

Volatile and semi volatile chemicals may be detected in the field with portable instruments or in the laboratory with previously collected samples. Typically these instruments use chromatographic separation e.g. gas chromatography to detect the volatile or semi volatile chemical but in some cases these instruments may use ion mobility spectrometry.

There are also non instrumental techniques available for the detection of volatile or semi volatile chemicals. For example indicator papers that change color are available for the detection of some analytes. However the number of analytes detectable by this approach is very limited. Most non instrumental detection methods are dominated by the use of trained mammalian systems e.g. canines that use their olfactory ability to report detection of a volatile or semi volatile chemical. Canines have been used extensively for smuggling interdiction explosives detection search and rescue etc.

As an alternative the olfactory abilities of insects can be harnessed for use in detecting the presence of volatile or semi volatile chemicals. This can be achieved by monitoring or observing an instinctual or trained behavior exhibited by the insect in response to sensing the presence of the volatile or semi volatile chemical. In particular honey bees can be utilized for vapor detection of such chemicals by monitoring their Proboscis Extension Reflex PER . Neurologists psychologists physiologists and others have utilized PER in bees as a model for examining learning and memory. Studies have shown that bees can be trained or conditioned to exhibit PER in response to sensing a specific volatile and semi volatile chemical. See e.g. Abramson et al. Learning in the Africanized Honey Bee L. . 62 p. 657 74 1997 See also Bitterman et al. Classical Conditioning of Proboscis Extension in Honeybees 97 107 19 1983 the contents of both are hereby incorporated by reference .

In contrast to their mammalian counterparts honey bees are much less expensive to raise train and deploy as well as being self renewing relative to canines. A handler is not necessary for each and every honey bee. A trainer may be centrally located and capable of producing and deploying hundreds of sensors conditioned honey bees daily.

Furthermore observation of the trained PER behavior displayed by the insect in response to a specific vapor or odor can be facilitated by using instrumentation capable of monitoring such behavioral movements of the bees and recording displaying or communicating a positive test event to the user. Portable instruments that use insects to detect the presence of volatile or semi volatile compounds have been developed. For instance a patent issued to Davis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 237 504 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference describes a portable device that uses a camera to detect the PER response of bees in response to a volatile chemical of interest.

Commercial applications that use the olfactory abilities of honey bees vary widely and include transportation security search and rescue narcotics interdiction medical diagnostics food quality control facility security and any other industry that would benefit from having the capability to qualitatively detect whether a volatile or semi volatile is present in a product or item.

However several problems and limitations exist with the current state of the art for apparatuses capable of harnessing the olfactory abilities of insects. For instance one critical limitation with existing prototypes and products is that they are not designed to achieve detection of volatile chemicals at very low concentrations. This is especially important and challenging for certain types of sticky volatile and semi volatile chemical vapors that are emitted from explosives and some types of narcotics since they tend to adhere to contacting surfaces thus lowering their effective concentration in a sample of air even further typically at low ppt . See e.g. Gowadia H. A. and Settles G. S. The natural sampling of airborne trace signals from explosives concealed upon the human body. 46 6 2001 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. 

The Davis patent U.S. Pat. No. 7 237 504 as well as existing prototypes and products for bee sensing apparatuses all utilize extensive ducting means that comprise tubes valves and branches to deliver individual streams of air to each individual insect. This arrangement greatly increases the amount of surface area within the instrument that comes in contact with the air sample to be tested prior to presentation to the insects for detection. As a result the ability of these existing devices to detect sticky volatile and semi volatile chemicals present in a sample at low concentrations is limited.

Therefore a need exists in the art for an improved portable device or apparatus that is capable of harnessing the sensing abilities of insects in a way that allows detection of volatile and semi volatile chemicals present in a sample at low concentrations and that overcomes the tendency of some of these vapors to stick to contacting surfaces.

The Los Alamos National Laboratory LANL has developed a Proboscis Extension Reflex Platform LANL PERP that allows for conditioned honey bees to be used as detectors for volatile and semi volatile chemicals that does not require direct visual interpretation of the PER response.

The LANL PERP concept comprises a housing into which restrained and conditioned trained insects or honey bees are placed. The instrument incorporates hardware for the delivery of volatiles and semi volatiles to trained honey bees detection of the vapors by monitoring for PER behavior by the bees and electronics software for producing an unambiguous output electronic response when PER is detected.

Honey bees used with LANL PERP are trained to detect volatile and semi volatile chemicals or analytes of interest present in a sample of gas via associative learning. Exposure to the chemical or analyte of interest followed by a sugar solution reward trains the bees to stick out their proboscis tongue in anticipation of receiving the reward when exposed to the chemical or analyte of interest. This behavior is referred to as the proboscis extension reflex PER and is capable of being monitored by a computer utilizing a camera to observe the PER behavior of the bees and communicate display or record a positive event for detection to the user. The LANL PERP device may utilize either pattern recognition software or simple changes in light intensity. Alternatively PER recognition may be carried out visually by a user or operator of the LANL PERP by observing a screen.

The present invention seeks to improve the detection of sticky volatile and semi volatile chemicals present in a sample at low concentrations through a variety of approaches. One aspect of the present invention is designed to overcome the difficulty of detecting sticky volatile and semi volatile chemicals present in a sample of gas at low concentrations by decreasing the surface area that comes in contact with the air sample prior to its exposure to the bees for detection. This is accomplished through changes in the overall geometry of the device by incorporating the following features First the bees are moved closer to the inlet where the air sample enters the device thus limiting the distance that the air must travel before reaching the bees. Second extensive ductwork comprising tubes valves and branches as used by prior art devices to deliver individual streams of air to the bees is eliminated. Instead the air sample enters the device through a common channel or slit approximately the width of the arrangement of bees in the chamber.

Therefore by decreasing the distance for the sample of gas or air to travel and by eliminating any ducting means including tubes valves and or branches to deliver the sample to each of the bees the surface area within the device that comes in contact with the air sample prior to its exposure to the bees is substantially decreased. As a result the amount of absorptive loss is reduced and the detection of sticky volatile or semi volatile chemicals present in a sample of gas at low concentrations is improved.

Another aspect of the present invention seeks to take advantage of the properties of these sticky volatile and semi volatile chemicals to work toward increasing their detection. A pre concentrating means is optionally attached to the front end of the device directly in front of the inlet of the channel that leads to the bees. The pre concentrator comprises a metal strip or mesh that is placed in front of the opening of the inlet. After passing an air sample over the metal strip or mesh for a period of time any such sticky chemical compounds that are present in the sample are allowed to adhere to the metal strip or mesh. Subsequently the sticky chemical compounds adhered to the metal strip or mesh can be released in a single pulse at a higher concentration by resistively heating the metal over a short period of time. This improves the probability of detecting such sticky chemicals present in the air sample by using the properties of such chemicals to generate a more concentrated pulse for testing. In other words the pre concentrator increases the vapor phase concentration of the analyte in the gas sample presented to the bees during the pulse.

Another aspect of the present invention is to use a smaller fan that decreases the velocity of the air passing over the bees. By using lower air speeds for example 0.05 0.3 m s detection should be increased by more closely mimicking the natural flight speeds of honey bees while they are foraging and transiting between flowers.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is to increase the number of detectors or bees that are used per device. Statistically to create a device that minimizes the number of false positive and negative events it is important to increase the number of detectors or bees to provide greater assurance and reliability of each test. Further by increasing the number of detectors or bees per unit device there exists the possibility of using some of the bees to perform a control function thus helping to eliminate any background effects that might lead to false detection.

It is advantageous to define several terms before describing the invention. It should be appreciated that the following definitions are used throughout this application.

The term insect includes any insect that is capable of displaying a consistent behavior in response to sensing a specific volatile or semi volatile chemical. The term insect includes an insect that is trained or conditioned to display an observable behavior. The term insect includes an insect that displays the proboscis extension reflex PER . The term insect includes a honey bee.

The terms sticky or stickiness refer to volatile or semi volatile chemicals that have a tendency to adhere and collect on contacting surfaces or substrates.

As shown in two or more insects or bees preferably five or more bees are placed and constrained in individual yokes arranged in parallel such that the head of each bee is visible from at least one single vantage point within the instrument to allow for simultaneous observation of a PER event. The yokes are fixed in a predetermined and patterned arrangement onto the base of the holding tray such that the fixed end of each yoke corresponds to the posterior end of each bee with the anterior head end of the bee pointed in the opposite direction away from the base of the holding tray. Further the heads of each bee are arranged such that they are substantially co planar with each other and such that no other bee is placed either directly in front of or directly behind of another bee within the axis of air flow so that each bee receives its own portion of the air flow. However it is not required that the bees are arranged linearly and are preferably arranged according to one embodiment in a non linear array. The holding tray is capable of being removably inserted into the device and handling of the holding tray may be facilitated by the use of a knob fixed to the outer surface of the holding tray to become substantially flush with the outer casing not shown of the device when fully inserted.

According to one aspect of the invention five or more bees are used to detect the presence of a volatile or semi volatile chemical. Using an increased number of bee detectors i.e. bees allows for a statistically more accurate detection by reducing the number of false positives or negatives that might occur as a result of one or more errant bees. Increasing the number of bees also allows for the additional implementation of control e.g. untrained bees to make positive test events more reliable by helping to eliminate background effects that might contribute to a false event.

In further reference to and the upper portion of the chamber of the housing creates an opening to allow the PER behavior of the bees to be observed. In an alternative embodiment the opening on the upper portion of the chamber is covered with a transparent material. The present invention further includes a means for monitoring the insects. According to one embodiment the monitoring means is preferably a camera that is fixed to the upper portion of the housing such that the camera faces away from the position of the bees and uses a mirror that is angled to put the bees in view of the camera. A light source not shown is also included in the chamber of the housing to allow the monitoring means to visualize the bees. Preferably the light source is placed near the base of the holding tray to provide a backlight for viewing the bees. The present invention further includes a means for focusing the camera preferably on the heads of the bees.

The present invention includes a means for inputting commands to the device which preferably comprises a keypad . The present invention also includes an outputting means or readout for displaying the results of a test. The keypad and readout are positioned so that they are substantially flush with the outer surface of the device casing to allow the user to access the keypad and observe the readout. The present invention further includes a computer means for processing the visual data to determine if a positive PER event has occurred and directing the outputting means to communicate or display the results of a test in the appropriate format. Finally the present invention uses either a battery or other power source to provide the necessary electricity to power the system including namely the fan the optional pre concentrating means the outputting and inputting means the light source and the computer means . Finally a carrying handle is optionally included to allow the user to carry the instrument in a facilitated manner.

The air sample is pulled into the housing by a fan that is preferably placed on the rear portion of the housing generating an air flow that is substantially unidirectional and planar. Thus the air flow through the housing is substantially as follows First the air enters the inlet on the front portion of the housing. Second the air travels through a common first channel that is relatively short. Next the air enters the chamber in a substantially planar flow around the heads of the bees . Finally the air exits the chamber and flows out of the housing through a second channel and a fan mounted on the rear portion of the housing that pulls the air through it.

The cross sectional view of the housing in further displays the preferred location for the light source near the base of the holding tray to provide backlighting for the camera. The cross sectional view further shows the opening on the upper portion of the housing that allows for the PER behavior of the bees to be observed by the monitoring means or camera. In an alternative embodiment the opening on the upper portion of the housing is covered by a transparent material.

As depicted in the present invention may optionally include a pre concentrator assembly . When engaged the pre concentrator includes a holder that is mounted with the front surface of said holder placed in front of the inlet on the front portion of the housing . Said holder has a horizontal slot of nearly identical size and dimension as said inlet and said first channel . The slot of said holder is attached to the housing such that said slot of the holder is placed directly in front of and is fully continuous with said inlet and said first channel. A metal strip or mesh is removably placed over the rear surface of the holder in contact with the entire opening of the slot and a portion of the holder. An insulating spacer is placed between said metal strip or mesh and said portion of the holder covered by said metal strip or mesh such that the spacer does not block any portion of the slot or inlet of said first channel to allow unimpeded air flow into the device. A sandwich assembly may thereby be formed by placing pieces and in alternating layers. Further the metal strip or mesh is attached to an electrical source not shown and in one preferred embodiment the metal strip or mesh is composed of stainless steel.

To operate the pre concentrator the air sample is passed over the metal strip or mesh over a period of time to allow sticky volatile or semi volatile compounds to adhere to said metal strip or mesh. Once a sufficient or predetermined volume of air sample has been passed over the metal strip or mesh said metal strip or mesh is attached to the pre concentrator as described above if not already attached and a pulse of electrical current is introduced by an attached power source not shown to the metal strip or mesh at a predetermined level. The current introduced to said metal strip or mesh produces resistive heating I the metal that causes any sticky volatile or semi volatile compounds that may have adhered to said metal strip or mesh to be released over a short period of time thus increasing the concentration of the volatile or semi volatile compounds presented to the bees during the pulse compared to concentrations present in the air to improve the probability that the bees will be able to detect and report the presence of sticky compounds that are present in the air sample at low concentrations.

When the height of the camera and plate are at the appropriate height such that a focused image of the heads of the bees is created the position of the camera and plate along the major axis of the bracket can be fixed in place by tightening a screw knob . Said screw knob has a screw portion not shown that goes through an opening of the bracket with said opening oriented lengthwise along the major axis of said mounting bracket preferably within said indentation of the bracket. Said screw portion of said screw knob also screws into the plate on the opposite surface of the camera. This screw knob mechanism allows for the plate and camera to be fixed at a desired height along the major axis of the bracket when the screw knob is tightened. As shown in B and C the alternative arrangement in showing placement of the camera directly above the bees may be incorporated into an alternative type of device. All of the major components of the present invention are also provided in this alternative embodiment and function identically as described above even though the relative placement of the holding tray keypad readout in this alternative embodiment are repositioned.

All documents patents journal articles and other materials cited in the present application are hereby incorporated by reference. Although the present invention has been fully described in conjunction with several embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that various changes and modifications may be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be understood as included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims unless they depart therefrom.

