---

title: Selectively limiting communications through a port of a mobile communications device
abstract: Systems, products, and methods are disclosed for performing a method of selectively controlling communications through a communications port of a mobile communications device. The system-provider information is useable by the mobile communications device to communicate with a wireless telecommunications network that is designated in the system-provider information. Illustratively, the method includes presenting a user interface on the mobile communications device. The UI exposes an option to enable the communications port to be useable to modify the system-provider information. The mobile communications device can be in a first state that currently prohibits data from being passed through the communications port to the system-provider information. Input is received that is to be used to enable data to be passed through the communications port to the system-provider information. The input is authenticated to determine that it is a valid input that is authorized to transition the mobile communications device to a second state, in which the communications port is enabled to receive data that is useable to modify the system-provider information. Incident to authenticating the input, the mobile communications device is transitioned to the second state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08060060&OS=08060060&RS=08060060
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08060060
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080805
---
This Application is related by subject matter to an applicationSer. No. 12 186 219 entitled RESTRICTING ACCESS TO SYSTEM PROVIDER INFORMATION STORED IN A MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE and filed on even date herewith. Said related application is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are defined by the claims below. But in brief and at a high level this disclosure describes a way for of selectively controlling features including data passed through a communications port of a mobile communications device such that the data throughput is allowable only in certain contexts. This situation is reversible such that full communications can be enabled in otherwise all contexts. This disclosure also describes ways of protecting system provider information that is stored within a mobile communications device so that only requests that are received from a wireless telecommunications network are usable to modify the system provider information. In some embodiments system provider information includes a list of the systems and or types of systems that a mobile communications device can communicate with including such things as a list of service providers and frequencies to utilize.

The subject matter of the present invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different components of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Throughout the description of the present invention several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are solely intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are in no way meant to limit the scope of the present invention. The following is a list of these acronyms 

Further various technical terms are used throughout this description. An illustrative resource that fleshes out various aspects of these terms can be found in Newton s Telecom Dictionary by H. Newton 24th Edition 2008 .

Embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as among other things a method system or set of instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media. Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplates media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to information delivery media RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . Throughout this description we might refer to a mobile device or even just device but may do so for brevity or as a shorthand form. We do not mean to imply a distinction with the different terms. Mobile communications device includes a keypad as well as a display which is suitable for presenting a user interface. Device also includes one or more communications ports. For example a first communications port as well as a second communications port . In some embodiments only a single communications port is provided on mobile device . Sometimes a communications port doubles as a charging port such that the communications port is also usable to recharge a power source of device .

In other embodiments a separate power port e.g. is provided to enable recharging of mobile communications device . In still other embodiments other communications ports are present on or within mobile communications device but are not shown so as to not obscure the present invention. For example a JTAG port is provided on some phones. The JTAG port is often located on the reverse of the phone underneath a battery of the phone and is sometimes usable to program the phone at the factory stage. That is the JTAG port is sometimes used to originally program mobile communications device .

As briefly mentioned display can present a user interface which in some embodiments includes multiple screens to expose various functional aspects of embodiments of the present invention. We show three illustrative screens and label them with reference numerals and . We will discuss these illustrative screens of a user interface after describing certain components of mobile communications device in greater detail.

Turning now to an illustrative schematic representation of mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . So as to help make clear what portions of the figures we are referring to we will refer to the mobile communications device of in connection with numeral even though it is a schematic representation of what we previously refer to as mobile communications device . Each is interchangeable.

Mobile communications device includes a set of one or more communications ports each of which might include a set of leads . Because readability can sometimes be frustrated by trying to refer to too many items in the plural we will begin and continue referring to certain items in the singular. Although we refer to certain items in the singular we by no means mean to imply that there is only one such item. For example we might refer to a radio of the mobile communications device but do not mean to imply that it has only a single radio. To the contrary the mobile device might have multiple radios to facilitate among other things communications with various types of networks such as CDMA WiMAX and GSM to name a few.

Communications port is coupled to a power regulating module . Power regulating module is coupled to a power source not shown and regulates power to and sometimes from a battery of the mobile device. As we will explain in greater detail below one of the aspects of an embodiment of the present invention is to selectively control communications through communications port which might include ports a JTAG port or other . But in order to selectively enable features an embodiment of the invention contemplates not severing all contact with all devices external to mobile communications device . Embodiments of our invention contemplate being able to reenable communications through communications port as well as being able to simultaneously disable communications through port while allowing selective features such as a recharging of the devices battery. Thus leads might enable communications port to receive a flow of electricity that is received by power regulating module which directs the flow to the device s battery.

In some embodiments communications port is coupled to what we refer to as an original programming module variously referred to herein as an over the wire module . This module as with many other modules described herein might be known by different names to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example some might know original programming module by the terms factory programming module or over the wire OTW module. Regardless the functionality offered by original programming module is to help facilitate an original programming of mobile communications device . That is in a factory type setting original instructions might be provided to firmware and various other software modules which I reference by numeral . Original programming module can be associated with an identifier such that identifier is usable to identify a source of data as coming from original programming module . This identifier is usable to identify any communications that might be attempting to be passed through communications port .

In contrast to over the wire module an over the air OTA module receives data over the air that is by way of a wireless telecommunications network. In some embodiments it is associated with an identifier . When we refer to a wireless telecommunications network we are referring to a network capable of communicating data in a wireless telecommunications context. Thus networks such as Wi Fi networks or small short range networks such as Bluetooth networks are distinguished from wireless telecommunications networks. Although those networks might form a portion of a wireless telecommunications network they are not synonymous with a wireless telecommunications network.

OTA module receives data that is wirelessly communicated from a telecommunications network. In one embodiment the data is received by way of a radio which sends and receives wireless signals to and from a wireless telecommunications network. Radio might for example communicate data in formats such as CDMA GSM or WiMAX.

We briefly mentioned firmware and other various software modules which is being generally referred to by numeral . Numeral indicates various types of software modules or other firmware that might be present in mobile communications device . Illustrative software includes things such as the operating system of a phone third party applications such as games programs to watch television on the device ring tones location based services contact information and the like. In some embodiments system provider information is included as part of software .

System provider information is information that describes what type of systems that mobile communications device can interact with. For example system provider information might describe which bands sub bands service provider identifiers and the like will be scanned and in what priority order. An acquisition table might form part of system provider information . An acquisition table includes a list of frequencies on which the device might search for particular systems. A system table might also be included. A system table might take the form of a prioritized list of systems that the device is permitted to access. It might also include a list of systems that the device is explicitly prohibited from accessing negative systems . In some embodiments some or all of this information takes the form of a preferred roaming list PRL . This is another example where ordinary skilled artisans might use different names to refer to different items.

That is some might consider certain information being a part of PRL whereas others might not refer to a PRL per se. Regardless system provider information is meant to include the type of information that mobile device utilizes in connection with establishing a communications ability with a wireless telecommunications network. As mobile device initializes or periodically at other times it attempts to establish a link with a wireless telecommunications network. In order to do that certain information is utilized such as which types of networks it can interact with which frequencies it might communicate data upon and which carriers or entities might it communicate with to the extent such information is not subsumed within the information indicating which types of networks it might communicate with. By way of example a list of entities is provided and referenced by the numeral . This shows a first entity a second entity a third entity and indicates by way of the ellipses that other entities might be included.

These entities might take the form of wireless telecommunications services providers providers . Illustrative providers include entities such as Sprint Nextel AT T Cricket Virgin Mobile Verizon SK Telecom Kajeet Wireless and the like. Some providers own and operate networks of their own while other providers are authorized vendors or resellers sometimes known as mobile virtual network operators MVNOs . Other memory of mobile communications device is represented by numeral .

We do not mean to indicate all or even major systems or components of mobile communications device . Similarly the connections shown are not meant to indicate that other connections are not present or that the connections are direct connections. We provide an overview of mobile communications device and list certain components so as to be able to refer to them throughout this disclosure.

As previously mentioned one embodiment of the invention takes the form of performing a method of selectively controlling communications through a communications port of a mobile communications device. We describe methods for limiting an ability of data to flow through a communications port of a mobile communications device. In some cases this limitation is absolute and in other situations this limitation is limited to restricting the flow of data to certain components within the mobile communications device such as system provider information . In many respects this is not intuitive because manufacturers offer as selling points and features an ability to communicate with a mobile communications device by way of a communications port.

But here we describe ways in which information flow into a mobile communications device can be limited if that information is being communicated by way of a hard wire communications port. However nearly disabling a communications port can be undesirable without an ability to reenable the port especially being able to reenable an ability to communicate data through the port into the mobile communications device. Thus embodiments of our invention contemplate an ability to reenable communications through the communications port. Still again in other embodiments we describe methods for limiting data input to data that is received over the air. We will describe these various embodiments below.

Turning now to an illustrative method for controlling communications through a communications port according to an embodiment of the invention is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . In this illustrative example we will make reference to a user a mobile device and a carrier or other authorized party . When we speak of a carrier we speak of a telecommunications carrier which may take the form of being named items in entity list . Of course not all of the steps recited in nor any of the flowcharts herein are necessarily required and these steps do not indicate a dispositive order. At a step an appropriate mode is entered into. One way of entering into a mode that would allow configuration of communications port is by entering a key sequence . An illustrative key sequence may take the form of data .

That is a user might utilize keyboard to enter a string such as 1234 to enter into a configuration mode. At a step mobile communications device presents menu options on its display. Turning briefly to portions of an illustrative user interface are provided. The user interface may include the illustrative screen shown a portion thereof or additional screens. By way of tying the example of to at a step perhaps screen is presented on display device . At a step mobile device receives input to navigate to a co entry screen. Thus mobile device might first present screen which exposes options for a user to modify or control a port of device . Device might receive input indicating a desire to control the port leading to a screen such as which presents options to enable or disable the port. If the port is to be enabled then screen might be transitioned to which seeks an unlock code variously referred to herein as access code or just code by way of box in one embodiment.

Returning to a request for an unlock code happens at a step . In some embodiments this request is made by user . In other embodiments this request is made by carrier or other authorized party . That is in some embodiments the invention contemplates a user being able to unlock port and in other embodiments such request might only be allowed to be made from an authorized party such as an MVNO or other reseller.

An authentication step occurs as shown. In some embodiments the step of authentication is accomplished by authenticating that mobile device is authorized to connect to a certain telecommunications network. For example if a certain carrier subsidized the cost of mobile device and thus intended mobile device to be used on its network or a reseller of features that are offered by way of the network. Thus authentication step may take on a variety of forms. In a first way authentication includes mobile device successfully communicating with a wireless telecommunications network that it is designated to communicate with. This might include a mobile device attempting to and successfully establishing a communications link with a wireless telecommunications network.

By way of further illustration authentication step might take the form of machine to machine customer service. That is a user might log into a website affiliated with a wireless telecommunications network provider of interest and provide credentials associated with the mobile communications device in order to receive an unlock code. For example the website might receive indicia that identifies the mobile device of interest. In one embodiment a phone number might be provided but other forms of indicia that might serve to identify the mobile communications device includes a mobile subscriber identifier MSID electronic serial number ESN or any other identifier that uniquely identifies the mobile communications device. With this information the website can interact with a database to determine whether the particular device is authorized to communicate with the wireless telecommunications network and or to determine whether it is authorized to have its communications port enabled to pass data into the device.

Turning briefly to an illustrative database is shown as being coupled to a carrier or other authorized vendor . In one embodiment database includes a table or similar that includes columns that have headings including device ID phone number port access code variously referred to herein as an unlock code or just code and verification code . Of course the columns shown are not the only columns that might be included in table nor are the columns shown required. A user is associated with mobile device having a phone number that is 816 555 1212. A communications link is shown between mobile communications device and wireless telecommunications network .

As we have previously mentioned one form of authentication might include a carrier or if desired user referencing a database such as database to obtain port access code . By way of illustration a website might present a user interface front end such that the website or other mechanism is able to receive identifying information such as the device ID phone number or other. Intimate to receiving this information a port access code associated with the specific device identifier can be provided. However to prevent unauthorized access to port access code information in some embodiments only a carrier or authorized vendor is authorized to access the data stored in database . In other embodiments mobile device might be able to receive port access code by way of wireless telecommunications link if a carrier decides to allow such mode of communication. For example perhaps a carrier might allow its mode of communication after user has been a subscriber of its services for some given duration of time such as after it has recouped any subsidies that might have been provided in connection with making mobile device available.

Returning to at a step an unlock code is provided to the mobile device and in some embodiments presented to user by way of a user interface. In some embodiments the unlock code is not presented to a user but received at mobile device which processes the unlock code without the user ever seeing it. In other embodiments a user might employ a customer service option such as by way of a website that provides unlock code . For example an authorized reseller might receive mobile device log into a website to retrieve unlock code provide a mobile device s identifying indicia and be presented by way of the website with unlock code which it enters into the device at a step .

Thus a variety of ways exist in which mobile device receives unlock code . In some cases unlock code might be a few alphanumeric characters that can be entered into mobile device by way of its keypad. In other embodiments unlock code might be a very long string of characters that were securely communicated to mobile device . Other variations of unlock code are also available and would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading this disclosure.

At a step if the unlock code is validated and communications via the communications port is enabled. Returning to in some embodiments code portion operates to prevent communications port from passing data into software modules . That is when data is attempted to be passed by way of communications port into software modules which might include system provider information this is not allowed until communications port is authorized.

At step the unlock code that was received at the mobile communications device is valid then code portion will allow communications port to pass data into the mobile device. In some embodiments layers of security are associated with accessing deeper levels of software within the mobile device. For example still more authorization might be required to edit system provider information which in some embodiments includes preferred roaming list . Thus perhaps a verification code might also be necessary in order to modify system provider information . In some embodiments verification code was provided at an initial programming stage of mobile device . It might for example take the form of a random number that was generated and stored in memory component . We designate by reference numeral a verification code that might be stored in memory in some embodiments.

Verification code might be one of the values that comes from the verification code column in . In the embodiment that additional security provisions are implemented to access system provider information a user might be required to enter verification code . In other embodiments the value of verification code might need to be received by some other means perhaps also over the air to enable communications port to communicate data into mobile communications device .

Turning now to an illustrative method of controlling communications through a communications port of a mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . At a step a user interface is presented on a mobile communications device such as that of . The user interface exposes an option to enable a communications port such as ports or other ports not shown such as the JTAG port to be usable to modify system provider information . In some embodiments the mobile communications device is in a first state that currently prohibits data from being passed through the communications port to the system provider information.

We have previously described that one way of limiting such access is to implement a code portion such as code portion that monitors a delivery ability of communications port such that if communications port is not allowed to pass data to the mobile communications device then code portion prohibits it. Although we show code portion as what might appear to be a portion of software modules it might be the case that the individual software modules each employ a check to determine where data is coming from or originated. For example if data is being received by way of communications port then that data is not allowed to pass. In other embodiments an entire communications pathway might be disabled until the functionality of communications port is enabled. Thus in such an embodiment a pathway such as pathway is not enabled until communications port is authorized to receive and pass data into the mobile communications device.

Returning to at a step input is received that is to be used to enable data to be passed through the communications port to the system provider information . We have mentioned that this input might be received by way of keypad but might also be received in various other ways such as over the air.

At a step the input received is authenticated to determine that it is valid. We have mentioned that the input that is received might take the form of a few alphanumeric characters or might be a very long bit stream that is received and authenticated over the air. The input if valid is usable to authorize transitioning the mobile communications device to a second state in which the communications port is enabled to receive data that is usable to modify system provider information . Thus if the input received is valid then the mobile communications device will transition from the first state into the second state whereby data will be allowed to be received through communications port which transition we refer to by reference numeral .

As mentioned the system provider information might include a list of frequencies on which the mobile communications device is to search and possibly an order in which the frequencies are to be searched also. The system provider information might also include a list of systems that the device is permitted to access. Different systems might be owned by different carriers which are also sometimes known as providers. The list of systems might also list different wireless telecommunications networks or types of networks. We have also mentioned that selective features can be retained that are associated with communications port .

For example communications port might be usable to recharge a battery of the mobile communications device . Thus merely physically removing pins or leads shocking communications port and or otherwise physically or in some other way permanently damaging communications port would not allow for such selective features. Our invention is not merely disabling a communications port on a mobile communications device. Rather it contemplates ways in which selective features associated with the communications port can still be retained and moreover contemplates a way of reenabling full functionality associated with the communications port so as to preserve a value of the mobile communications device during its life cycle.

Mobile communications devices have a life cycle that includes an initial phase but also a subsequent phase. For example many programs exist to make additional use of older phones or phones that no longer serve as primary phones. For example a program exists wherein persons offering military service are able to receive preowned phones. If those preowned phones had their communications ports permanently disabled then such phones would be of limited use in this latter life cycle. But our invention contemplates an ability to if desired reenable a previously disabled communications port so that if full functionality is desired to be reprovided to the mobile communications device then it can be done.

Another selective feature might include permitting the communications port to be used to retrieve data from the mobile communications device but preventing data from being communicated to the mobile communications device. Thus in this embodiment data might be allowed to flow out of the mobile communications device but not into it.

Turning now to another illustrative method for controlling communications through the communications port of a mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . At a step an ability is disabled of a communications port of a mobile communications device to be usable to modify system provider information that is stored in the mobile device. Thus whereas the mobile device might have once had an ability to communicate data through its communications port this functionality is disabled in step .

At a step a code is stored in a memory component of the mobile communications device. This code is usable to enable the mobile communications device to receive data which is usable to modify the system provider information. By way of illustration it might be the case that as the mobile device was being programmed at the factory an access code such as was stored in a memory component such as . Thus mobile device has stored within it an unlock code that is usable to serve as a benchmark to validate an unlock code that is entered at some other time.

At a step a determination is made as to whether the code that was entered was a valid code. In some embodiments this validation process can be accomplished independently by the mobile communications device. This would be possible because the mobile communications device would have stored within it the value of the access code. Thus upon receiving the code it can validate whether that code is valid or not. If the code is valid then processing would advance to a step wherein data would be allowed to be passed to the mobile communications device by way of the communications port. But if the code that was entered is not valid then data would not be allowed to be passed to the mobile communications device by way of the communications port.

Turning now to still another illustrative method for controlling communications through a communications port of a mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . At a step a mobile communications device is received or obtained in a state in which an ability of the communications port to be used to input information into the mobile communications device is disabled. Thus an entity might receive a mobile communications device that includes a communications port but that communications port is not usable to communicate information into the mobile communications device. At a step a determination is made that the ability can be enabled by way of entering a code into the mobile communications device. Thus the entity receiving or obtaining the phone determines that the communications port might be usable to communicate data it is just currently not in a state to do so. The code if correct would allow data to be inputted into the mobile communications device by way of the communications port.

At a step the code is identified. Thus the correct code that would enable communications to be made through the communications port is determined. At step the identified code is entered into the mobile communications device thereby enabling the communications port to be used to input data into the device.

In still other scenarios an entity might wish to further restrict access to software within the mobile communications device. In such a scenario an entity may wish to limit data that can be received into the mobile device to be received over the air. That is only data received wirelessly or what is termed over the air is useable to modify data within mobile communications device . In this way access to device software can be blocked unless it stemmed from an over the air communication. In this scenario the mobile communications device must be active on a given wireless telecommunications network. And to the extent the mobile communications device is associated with a user that user must have an active account on the wireless communications network in order to receive any form of software upgrades modifications to system provider information etc. Communications port is not allowed to ever be used to modify system provider information . Although the communications port might be enabled or disabled it is not allowed to be used to modify the system provider information which might include PRL . Thus the only way PRL or system provider information can be modified is by way of data received over the air such as by way of wireless communication link .

In this environment communications port cannot be used to hack into mobile communications device so as to modify system provider information . The system provider information information will only recognize over the air requests. Thus only requests that are received over the air are requests that will be passed on to see if they might be allowed to modify system provider information . An illustrative way of effecting this functionality beyond what has been described includes writing system provider information as a 1 time right or a flask at an initial programming stage. Then the only way to modify the information would be by way of over the air requests. For example a code can be written that essentially breaks itself. That is 1 time code could be included such that once a value is written into a specific module it cannot be modified except by way of a certain path or receiving data from a certain origin.

With reference to any over the wire module including original programming module would no longer be usable to modify system provider information . One way of accomplishing this building on what we have mentioned above would be to implement a code portion that persistently blocks any data attempting to be passed into the device by way of communications port . Similarly any software module within mobile communications device could inspect a source of a modification command to determine whether that modification command should be granted. In some embodiments inspecting a source of a command includes validating an identifier that identifies a module source.

For example the over the air module includes an identifier . Any data received over the air might pass through this OTA module as it is passed on to other software modules. The data received can be tagged or otherwise indicated as being received by way of OTA module which includes identifier . Thus any potential software that is to be modified can request or otherwise inquire as to a source of the modification request. Incident to this request identifier is used as a benchmark to determine whether to validate any such request.

Another way of implementing an embodiment of the invention in which only OTA requests modify information are recognized would include only allowing certain communications pathways to pass information into software module or particularly system provider information . Thus in such an embodiment perhaps a pathway such as pathway is allowed but pathway is not.

Turning now to an illustrative method of limiting access to certain software components stored within mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . At a step a request is received to access system provider information that is stored within mobile communications device .

At a step verification is made as to whether the request was communicated over the air by way of a wireless telecommunications network that the mobile communications device is authorized to access. As mentioned one way of verifying includes inspecting a first code to determine whether the request was received by way of an OTA module such as module within the mobile communications device. This first code might be associated with the OTA module which might have a variety of names but refers to any set of embodied software that receives information communicated over the air.

Additional layers of security can be included. For example a verification code such as that of column could be provided and stored within other memory component . In this way a value might have been stored at an original programming stage such that a manufacturer of mobile communications device knows of the code but no one else unless the manufacturer lets another entity know. Another entity that might be allowed to know the code would be a wireless telecommunications services provider which can include or is otherwise referred to as a carrier. Thus if someone found a way to communicate information in a spoofed type context to the device wirelessly the user might be prompted in some embodiments to enter the verification code.

In some embodiments the only way to obtain this verification code is to contact the relevant carrier. In some embodiments the verification code is not even stored in any memory component of mobile communications device but is only stored in database . In such an embodiment a user might obtain the verification code input the verification code into the mobile device which would then communicate via wireless link to have the entered code benchmarked against the value in database . However if this additional layer of security is not desired nor implemented then any sort of verification code is simply not used.

At a step access is permitted to the system provider information etc. Communications port is not allowed to ever be used to modify system provider information . Although the communications port might be enabled or disabled it is not allowed to be used to modify system provider information which might include PRL . Thus the only way PRL or system provider information can be modified is by way of data received over the air such as by way of wireless communications link .

Another way of implementing an embodiment of the invention in which only OTA requests modify information are recognized would include only allowing certain communications pathways to pass information into software module or particularly system provider information . Thus in such an embodiment perhaps a pathway such as pathway is allowed but pathway is not.

Turning now to an illustrative method according to an embodiment of the present invention for protecting a preferred roaming list that is stored within a mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . At a step a request to modify the PRL is received. At a step determination is made as to a source of the request. We have previously described ways of determining a source of such a request. At a step an evaluation is made as to whether the source was an over the air source. If so then the request is granted at a step but if not then the request is denied at a step . Accordingly the request is denied unless the source and one embodiment is a wireless telecommunications network that the mobile communications device is authorized to communicate with. Communication is usually accomplished by way of radio .

Turning to a method of limiting access to certain software components that are stored within a mobile communications device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . At a step the communications port is allowed to communicate data to and from mobile communications device . At a step a request to modify a software component of the mobile communications device is received. Thus whereas data might be allowed to be communicated to or from the mobile communications device at a step a request to modify a software component of the mobile communication device is received. At a step a determination is made as to whether the request stems from an over the air communication.

This over the air communication would have stemmed from a wireless telecommunications network that the mobile communications device is authorized to communicate with. If the request did stem from such an over the air communication then it is granted at a step but if not it is denied at a step . As mentioned various methods for determining whether the request stemmed from an over the air communications exists including evaluating a pathway from which the request was received evaluating an identifier associated with a module that received or is communicating the request or even inspecting aspects of the request itself to determine whether it includes attributes that would be associated with receiving an over the air request.

If the request is granted an additional aspect of the method could include modifying system provider information or even PRL . As mentioned during a factory programming state or other original programming state modifying system provider information might be permitted. But after such original programming communicating data over the wire that is usable to modify system provider information is not allowed.

Some mobile communications devices have other forms of communicating data beyond communications ports. For example Bluetooth offers a way to communicate with a mobile communications device. But inasmuch as it is similar to communicating with the phone via a communications port references made herein to prohibiting or limiting functionality of a communications port are also applicable to limiting a potential similar functionality that might be offered by way of another medium such as Bluetooth or even Wi Fi. That is everything that we have mentioned in the context of limiting communications into the device by way of a communications port might also be applicable to limiting modification to software by using a Wi Fi connection that can be established with the mobile communications device. As mentioned some embodiments of the invention limit modification of system provider information to requests that are received over the air. Requests received via Bluetooth or Wi Fi are not considered over the air unless they stemmed from a communication from wireless telecommunications network .

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not depart from its scope. A skilled artisan may develop alternative means of implementing the aforementioned improvements without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. Not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out in the specific order described.

