---

title: Method and apparatus for providing network communication association information to applications and services
abstract: A system and method are provided that allow an application on a first terminal to inquire about available network communication associations that it can use to send data to another terminal, thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association with the other terminal. A security information module may serve to collect and/or store information about available network communication associations between the first terminal and another terminal across different layers. The security information module may also assess a trust level for the network communication associations based on security mechanisms used to establish each association and/or past experience information reported for these network communication associations. Upon receiving a request for available network communication associations, the security information module provides this to the requesting application which can use it to establish communications with a corresponding application on the other terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444823&OS=09444823&RS=09444823
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09444823
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081224
---
At least one feature relates to secure communications between devices in a communication network and more specifically to collection and sharing of available network communication associations across different layers and applications.

Applications such as electronic mail email on either wired or wireless devices in a communication network are currently unaware of the strength of the underlying authentication mechanism that was used to create security associations in the network. As a result each application manages its own security when communicating with another device. For instance an application may know that a Transport Layer Security TLS or Internet Protocol Security IPSec channel exists but not how the channel was established. The channel may have been established for example via Unauthenticated Diffie Hellman DH Pretty Good Privacy PGP based authentication Pre Shared Key PSK based authentication or Public Key Infrastructure PKI based authentication but the application is unaware of the type of authentication used to establish the channel.

In the Open System Interconnection OSI layered communications and computer network protocol design each layer may establish its own secured or unsecured association or channel. For example a first OSI layer may establish a secured or unsecured communication channel with another device. Similarly a second OSI layer for instance a Media Access Control MAC layer an Internet Protocol IP layer and or an application layer may protect communications between two devices using its own secure channel. An application operating on a layer of a device is typically unaware of the security or authentication characteristics of a first layer channels or associations and therefore has to establish its own secure channel or association.

Even if the application knew of a secure association or channel on another layer as discussed above it does not know what type or strength of authentication was used to create the secure association or channel. If the authentication level is not clear maintaining a minimum level of authentication at each layer is impossible. As a result an application has to establish its own Internet Protocol IP connectivity i.e. IP layer encryption even though a first layer communication association or channel is available and could be employed for the same purpose.

Additionally even if the application were knowledgeable of the type of authentication used to establish a security association at a first layer this alone may be insufficient to determine the actual quality of the security association. Although authentication may prove that an entity is who it claims to be it cannot provide assurance on the reliability or quality of the service available through the entity. Currently applications looking for such assurance have no means of obtaining it.

In view of the above a system and method is desirable for providing information on first layer network communication associations to first or second layer applications to facilitate secure communications over the first layer network communication associations thereby avoiding the establishment of an additional first network communication association or the use of a second layer network communication association. The information may include the established network communication associations type of authentication used and the reliability or level of trust of the security association.

One feature provides a method operational on a transmitting terminal that allows an application to utilize pre established network communication associations at the same or different layers to transfer data to a receiving terminal thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association. As a result overhead is minimized as overhead may not be wasted in establishing the new network communication association that may have already been established. To accomplish this a security information module e.g. hardware software or combination thereof provides an interface through which information for one or more network communication associations for one or more layers is collected and distributed to applications. In one example the one or more network communication associations may correspond to one or more layers of an Open Systems Interconnection OSI module communication system where the one or more layers may include at least one of an application layer a network layer a data link layer and a physical layer.

A level of trust may be assessed and or stored for each of the one or more network communication associations. Additionally information from applications regarding previous experiences with one or more receiving terminals may be collected and provided to other applications. A level of trust may be assessed for each such receiving terminal based on the collected information. The level of trust may be based on previous experiences with a corresponding receiving terminal and type of authentication used to create the layer network communication association to the corresponding receiving terminal. A set of policies may also be identified to be used in selecting a network communication association through which to send the data wherein the set of policies is based on user preferences.

A request may be received from a requesting application for information about available layer network communication associations. In response security information for at least one network communication association may be provided to the requesting application to allow the requesting application to select a network communication association to send data to a receiving terminal thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association with the receiving terminal. The collected information may be stored in a security information module for later retrieval and selection of a network communication association on which to send the data to an application on the receiving terminal. The security information provided may include a level of strength for the network communication associations. A network communication association may be selected on which the requesting application can send the data to the receiving terminal over a network. The security information of the network communication associations may include at least one of a method used to secure the first layer network communication association a method used to authenticate the first layer network communication association and a prior history between the transmitting terminal and the receiving terminal with which the network communication associations are established.

The selected network communication association is selected from the one or more network communication associations if a security level of at least one of the one or more network communication association meets a desired security level for data transmissions by the requesting application. Alternatively a new network communication association may be established which the requesting application can use to send the data to the receiving terminal if security levels of the one or more network communication associations fail to meet a desired security level. Upon selecting a network communication association the receiving terminal may be notified of the network communication association on which to receive data being sent.

In one example the requesting application may operate on a first layer and the selected network communication association may operate on a different second layer. The first layer may be a higher layer than the second layer. In another example the requesting application may operate on a first layer and the selected network communication association may operate on the same first layer.

According another implementation an access terminal is provided comprising a communication interface and a processing circuit. The processing interface may be adapted for communication with a receiving terminal. The processing circuit may be configured to 1 provide an interface through which information for one or more network communication associations for one or more layers is collected and distributed to applications 2 receive a request from the requesting application for information about available layer network communication associations 3 select a network communication association on which to send the data to the receiving terminal over a network and or 4 provide security information for at least one network communication association to a requesting application to allow the requesting application to select a network communication association to send data to a receiving terminal thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association with the receiving terminal. In one example the selected network communication association may be selected from the one or more network communication associations if a security level of at least one of the one or more network communication association meets a desired security level for data transmissions by the requesting application. In some implementations the requesting application may operate on a first layer of a hierarchical protocol architecture and the selected network communication association operates on a second layer of the hierarchical protocol architecture. Alternatively the requesting application may operate on a first layer and the selected network communication association operates on the same first layer of a hierarchical protocol architecture.

In some implementations the processing circuit may be further configured to establish a new network communication association and using it to send the data to the receiving terminal if security levels of the one or more network communication associations fail to meet a desired security level.

According to another feature the processing circuit may be further configured to 1 assess a level of trust for each of the one or more network communication associations and or 2 store the level of trust for each of the one or more network communication associations.

According to yet another feature the processing circuit may be further configured to 1 collect information from applications regarding previous experiences with one or more receiving terminals 2 assess a level of trust for each such receiving terminal based on the collected information and or 3 provide the information of the one or more receiving terminals to other applications.

The access terminal may also include a storage device coupled to the processing circuit and configured to store the collected information in a security information module for later retrieval and selection of a network communication association on which to send the data to an application on the receiving terminal.

In various examples one or more of the features described herein may be implemented in hardware e.g. one or more processors circuits chips etc. software and or a combination thereof.

In the following description specific details are given to provide a thorough understanding of the configurations. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the configurations may be practiced without these specific detail. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the configurations in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques may be shown in detail in order not to obscure the configurations.

As used herein the term terminal may include some or all the functionality of a user equipment UE a wireless or wired communication device a network device a personal communication device mobile device and or a mobile station. The term network communication association may include a link or channel over a network that is established between applications or services of two different terminals.

A system and method are provided that allow an application on a first terminal to inquire about available network communication associations that it can use to send data to another terminal thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association with the other terminal. A security information module may serve to collect and or store information about available network communication associations between the first terminal and another terminal across different layers. The security information module may also assess a trust level for the network communication associations based on security mechanisms used to establish each association and or past experience information reported for these network communication associations. Upon receiving a request for available network communication associations the security information module provides this to the requesting application which can use it to establish communications with a corresponding application on the other terminal.

According to one example an interface is provided to a security information module through which information for one or more available network communication associations for one or more layers is collected and distributed to applications. Information for the one or more available network communication associations may be collected and or stored. Such information may include security information trust level information past experience information for the network communication associations. Security information for at least one network communication association is provided to a requesting application to allow the requesting application to select a network communication association to send data to a receiving terminal thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association with the receiving terminal.

In one example a system and method are provided for facilitating security information to a second layer application to facilitate secure communications over first layer network communication associations thereby avoiding the establishment of second layer network communication associations. In some instances an application or service e.g. banking services etc. may not trust other applications services in the same device and consequently it may wish to establish its own secure communication channel or channel. However in other instances a second layer application or service does not need protection from other applications services in the same device i.e. there is a trust with other application services within the same device and consequently a separate secure channel or network communication association may be avoided and a same first layer channel or network communication association may be used. As a result the cost of a key management protocol may be amortized over multiple secure channels or associations. For example an application layer may benefit from the media access control MAC layer security instead of establishing its own secure association.

In avoiding the establishment of second layer network communication associations the second layer application may determine a strength level for each of the network communication associations. Strength levels may be determined using the security information and level of trust information associated with the network communication associations. The level of trust information may be determined by applications using the security information and any other available information on the network communication associations. Once a strength level is determined it may be compared to a set of policies stored on a security information module in a device to determine if an existing network communication channel association may be utilized or if a new network communication channel association should be acquired. The selected or obtained network communication association or secure network channel may then be used for the transmission of data to from the device to another device.

Another feature provides a system and method for facilitating security information to a first layer application to provide secure communications over first layer network communication associations thereby avoiding the establishment of additional first network communication associations.

The first layers of a network may have to protect headers that the second layers may not have protected. The headers may have been introduced between the first and second layers. For example an IP level security mechanism may be available for headers between the application layer and the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP layer. However the application layer may have already protected the data or payload so the IP layer may make a determination as to whether to protect the TCP header or whether the IP level security mechanism may protect the TCP header. In other words if a second layer is using a first layer protocol some of the headers between the layers may need protection by the first layers.

Note that as used herein the term layer refers to a hierarchical protocol architecture in which a collection of conceptually similar functions provide services to a layer above it and receives service from the layer below it. Consequently second layers can build their associations or communication channels based on first layer associations or channels. The terms second layer and first layer merely denote different layers and do not imply or infer any particular layer. The terms first and second may alternatively be referred to as lower and higher respectively. The term association refers to an established relationship with another device such as a communication channel between layers of two devices. The term security protocol refers to any protocol were some form of authentication and or encryption is utilized in establishing an association or channel.

When communication between the transmitting terminal and the receiving terminal is initiated one or more secure channels or network communication associations may be established between the nodes of the communication network . For example a Media Access Control MAC layer security association may be established between the transmitting terminal and the first access node . An Internet Protocol Security IP sec layer association may be established between the transmitting terminal and the gateway . Alternatively an IP sec layer may be between the transmitting terminal and the receiving terminal . Additionally there may be application layer security associations e.g. Transport Layer Security TLS Datagram Transport Layer Security DTLS between the transmitting terminal and the receiving terminal .

In the example shown in a first email application may seek to establish a secure channel to protect transmissions to from a second email application . As such the first email application operating in the application layer of the transmitting terminal may use a network protocol Secure Shell SSH to exchange data over a secure network communication association or channel with the second email application in the application layer of the receiving terminal .

Also shown in the example in is the use of an Internet Key Exchange version 2 IKEv2 protocol. In the network layer the transmitting terminal may use the IKEv2 protocol to negotiate a secure association with the receiving terminal at the outset of an IPsec session. In one example rather than establishing its own secure association i.e. channel the first email application may utilize one of the pre established secure associations in Network layer . A security information module may provide information about first layer associations or channels to second layers. In some implementations a vertical sharing of network communication associations occurs among different layers. However in other implementations horizontal sharing of network communication associations may occur from one application in a first layer to another application or service in the same first layer.

The application module may include applications or services that use network communication associations to exchange data with other applications on other terminals or devices. Additionally as discussed below the application module may also assess a level of trust for the nodes or network communication associations after an exchange of data or an attempt to exchange data. The level of trust may be assessed using information such as the type of authentication used in the creation of the network communication association. For example the level of trust may be determined based on whether strong pre shared keys PSKs or self signed certificates or unauthenticated Diffie Hellman were used in creating the network communication association. This information may be provided to the security protocol module via an application program interface API .

The Security Information Module may collect information about the nature of secure channels or network communication associations from various security protocols and provide this security information to applications or services when requested. Additionally the Security Information Module may collect the information on the level of trust for nodes and network communication associations provided by applications. The level of trust information may be incorporated into decisions as to which network communication association to use in future communications or may be provided to other modules for making routing decisions. By knowing the type of network communication association information about the type of credentials or authentication mechanisms used in the creation of such associations may be used to assess a level of trust for such association and or corresponding node. For example the network communication associations may include IKEv2 and 802.11i or a Bluetooth pairing scheme each of which may result in a different level of trust for the network communication association.

The security protocols module may include any security protocol or network communication association either first or second layer which facilitates credential management key management and or secure channel establishment for communicating between a transmitting terminal and a receiving terminal.

In a communication network a set of policies may be established by the transmitting terminal and may be stored in the Security Information Module where the set of policies may be based on preferences of users . The preferences may include but are not limited to cost available bandwidth and security level that an application may use to transmit data securely. The Security Information Module may collect this information and use this to interact with applications and or network communication associations.

The Security Protocols Module may ascertain security information on the network communication associations which may have previously been established between an application service or application program interface API on the transmitting terminal and the receiving terminal . Applications or services may be able to use this security information to select a previously established first layer network communication association to minimize overhead as overhead may not be wasted in establishing a network communication association that may have already been established. For example the Security Information Module may have knowledge of the availability of encrypted network communication associations or channels. As a result an application can use the first layer encrypted network communication associations or channels and skip its own IP layer encryption. Whereas if this level of information was not available the application may have to establish its own IP layer encryption even though this model of direct connectivity was available at a first layer. Consequently second layer applications or services can reduce overhead and or complexity by relying on first layer associations or channels have desired security levels by obtaining this information from the security information module .

The security information for a particular association or channel may include the type of available credentials with a given node over a particular channel including but not limited to user involved Bluetooth pairing and infrastructure assisted Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP . The credentials may be association or channel independent. In addition to the type of available credentials the security information may also include how the node or association channel was authenticated such as PSKs self signed certificates biometrics etc. and the type of device node i.e. trusted versus non trusted if known. This information may be sent to the security information module where it may be stored .

Next the Application Module may assess a level of trust for each of the network communication associations . The level of trust may be assessed using the security information obtained and any other information it may have on the network communication associations for example information provided by users. For instance an application that receives a corrupt file may indicate that it has received a corrupt file from the device or node from which it received the corrupt file. This information may be used in assessing the level of trust. Next a level of trust feedback may be provided to the Security Information Module where it may be stored . The level of trust feedback may be used by other applications to determine if a particular network communication association or node may be trusted or to assign it a level of trust .

Additionally the level of trust information may be used to calculate the overall strength of a network communication association. This information may be useful for other applications or services running on the device node. For example another application looking to obtain a piece of software may choose not to use the device node that previously provided a corrupt file according to the feedback. Even if the level of authentication may be acceptable to an application the prior history of the corresponding node or network authentication association indicating a low trust level e.g. history of providing corrupt files etc. may supersede such channel strength information. For example if an application in Device C has the option of obtaining content from Device A or Device B and the application has prior knowledge of Device A the application may be better able to authenticate the content coming from Device A than if it came from Device B. Even if both Device A and Device B used self signed certification authentication the application may request to receive the information from Device A as the application has a prior established relationship with Device A. Consequently the prior history of positive communications with Device A by the same or other applications operating in Device C may be used by an application to determine whether such association should be used.

When an application in the transmitting terminal wants to transmit data to the receiving terminal the Application Module e.g. an application or service operating on the transmitting terminal may request any available security and level of trust information for first layer network communication associations or channels that may be available or stored in the security information module . The security information module may receive this request and may send any available security and level of trust information to the application module . The security information may include for example the authentication strength and Crypto Algorithm strength of the network communication associations. The application module may then use the security and level of trust information along with the set of policies to determine whether or not an existing network communication association or channel may be utilized or if a new network communication association or channel should be acquired . In other words the security and or level of trust information may be used to determine a security level while the set of policies may include the desired security level for data transmission from the device. If the security level determined using the security and level of trust information either equals or exceeds the desired level of security a first layer network communication may be used. The desired security level may be determined by the application based on the type of security preferred. For example the application may want to use integrity and encryption or encryption with a 256 bit key.

If the application module determines that any of the established network communication associations may be utilized i.e. meets a desired security level the application running on the transmitting terminal may select one of the first layer network communication associations through which to communicate with the receiving terminal .

In some instances first layer network communication associations may be shared among a plurality of applications or services. In such instance the applications or services may have sufficient trust on other applications or services to concurrently use the same first layer shared association or channel.

In other instances an application or service may not trust other applications or services in the same device or may wish to use a non shared private or dedicated association or channel for its communications. In such instances the application or service may either request that the first layer set up a non shared network communication association or channel for its sole use or may decide to setup its own second layer association or channel.

Once a first layer network communication association or channel has been selected notification may then be provided to the receiving terminal as to the network communication association and a secure communication channel may be established with the receiving terminal . If all of the established network communication associations fail to meet a desired security level a new network communication association with the desired security level may be created . Notification may then be provided to the receiving terminal as to the new network communication association. Once the transmitting terminal has established the secure communication channel either using an existing first layer network communication association or creating a new network communication association data is transmitted to the receiving terminal over the secure communication channel .

The communication terminal of may be configured to provide security information to a first layer application to facilitate secure communications over first layer network communication associations thereby avoiding the establishment of another first layer network communication association. That is rather than relying on network communication associations on other layers e.g. vertical sharing an application may use a network communication association on the same layer horizontal sharing .

Additionally a policy information collector may obtain or store defined rules for the associations and or protocols. For example depending on the policy information available the policy information collector may provide input to security protocols on whether or not an authentication needs to be established for a particular association or channel. A device may have a set of policies based on user preferences such as cost preferences level of security required etc. This information may be used by the security information module to interact with applications and security protocols.

An association information distributor may serve to provide information to first or second layer applications and services. For example the association information distributor may provide a the strength of the available secure channel or association to a given node or device b the available secure paths to a given node and relative strengths the available nodes for a given service with secure channel availability. Applications may register with the security information module to receive such information. The granularity or detail of information provided for any one layer or protocol may vary.

An association ratings collector allows applications and or services to provide feedback about particular associations channels and or nodes. For example an application may provide ratings of nodes based on past experience with such node e.g. if a corrupt file is received from such node this may equate to a low rating for that node . Ratings may be used to calculate the overall strength of a secure channel or node. This information may then be useful to other applications and services.

The security information module may ascertain or obtain and or store security information for network communication associations and from one or more layers. The security information of the network communication associations may include at least one of a method used to secure the first layer network communication association a method used to authenticate the first layer network communication association and a prior history between the transmitting terminal and the receiving terminal with which the network communication associations are established. The security information may also include a level of strength for the network communication associations. A level of trust may be assessed and or stored for each of the one or more network communication associations and . Additionally information from applications regarding previous experiences with one or more receiving terminals may be collected and provided to other applications. A level of trust may be assessed for each such receiving terminal based on the collected information. The level of trust may be based on previous experiences with a corresponding receiving terminal and type of authentication used to create the layer network communication association to the corresponding receiving terminal. A set of policies may also be identified and or collected to be used in selecting a network communication association through which to send the data wherein the set of policies is based on user preferences . The collected information may be stored in a security information module for later retrieval and selection of a network communication association on which to send the data to an application on the receiving terminal.

A request may be received from a requesting application for information about available network communication associations .

In response to such request a determination may be made e.g. by either the requesting terminal or the secure information module as to whether a stored network communication association to transfer data meets a desired security level . In response to such request a network communication association may be selected on which the requesting application can send the data to the receiving terminal over a network. According to one option if a security level of at least one of the one or more network communication association meets a desired security level for data transmissions by the requesting application security information for at least one network communication association may be provided to the requesting application to allow the requesting application to select a network communication association to send data to a receiving terminal thereby avoiding the establishment of a new network communication association with the receiving terminal . Alternatively a new network communication association may be established which the requesting application can use to send the data to the receiving terminal if security levels of the one or more network communication associations fail to meet a desired security level . In one example the security information module may select the network communication association that the requesting application should use and provides that network communication association to the requesting application. In another example the requesting application may receive a plurality of network communication associations from the security information module and then chooses one for transmission to the receiving terminal. Upon selecting a network communication association the receiving terminal may be notified of the network communication association on which to receive data being sent .

Data may then be transmitted e.g. by the requesting application to the receiving terminal on the selected network communication association .

In one example the requesting application may operate on a first layer and the selected network communication association may operate on a different second layer. The first layer may be a higher layer than the second layer. In another example the requesting application may operate on a first layer and the selected network communication association may operate on the same first layer.

According to yet another configuration a circuit is adapted to provide an interface through which information for one or more network communication associations for one or more layers is collected and distributed to applications. The same circuit a different circuit or a second section of the same or different circuit may be adapted to ascertain collect and or store information for one or more network communication associations on one or more layers. For example such circuit may assess and or store a level of trust and or security information for each of the one or more network communication associations. In addition the same circuit a different circuit or a third section may be adapted to assess collect and or information from applications regarding previous experiences with one or more receiving terminals. Such information may include a level of trust for each such receiving terminal based on the collected information. Similarly the same circuit a different circuit or a fourth section may be adapted to receive a request from a requesting terminal for information about available network communication associations. The same circuit a different circuit or a fifth section may be adapted to select a network communication association on which the requesting terminal can send data to the receiving terminal over a network. The same circuit a different circuit or a sixth section may be adapted to providing security information for at least one network communication association to a requesting application to allow the requesting application to select a network. The same circuit a different circuit or a seventh section may be adapted to establish a new network communication association and using it to send the data to the receiving terminal if security levels of the one or more network communication associations fail to meet a desired security level.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that generally most of the processing described in this disclosure may be implemented in a similar fashion. Any of the circuit s or circuit sections may be implemented alone or in combination as part of an integrated circuit with one or more processors. The one or more of the circuits may be implemented on an integrated circuit an Advance RISC Machine ARM processor a digital signal processor DSP a general purpose processor etc.

Also it is noted that the configurations may be described as a process that is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

In one or more examples and or configurations the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Compact Disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage flash memory or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above are also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Furthermore configurations may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a computer readable medium such as a storage medium or other storage s . A processor may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

The transmission techniques described herein may also be used for various wireless communication systems such as a code division multiple access CDMA system a time division multiple access TDMA system a frequency division multiple access FDMA system an orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA system a single carrier FDMA SC FDMA system and so on. An OFDMA system utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM which is a modulation technique that partitions the overall system bandwidth into multiple K orthogonal subcarriers. These subcarriers are also called tones bins and so on. With OFDM each subcarrier may be independently modulated with data. An SC FDMA system may utilize interleaved FDMA IFDMA to transmit on subcarriers that are distributed across the system bandwidth localized FDMA LFDMA to transmit on a block of adjacent subcarriers or enhanced FDMA EFDMA to transmit on multiple blocks of adjacent subcarriers. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDMA.

One or more of the components steps and or functions illustrated in may be rearranged and or combined into a single component step or function or embodied in several components steps or functions. Additional elements components steps and or functions may also be added. The apparatus devices and or components illustrated in may be configured or adapted to perform one or more of the methods features or steps described in and or . The algorithms described herein may be efficiently implemented in software and or embedded hardware.

Those of skill in the art would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the configurations disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system.

The various features described herein can be implemented in different systems. For example system and method for providing security information to a second layer application to facilitate secure communications over first layer network communication associations thereby avoiding the establishment of second layer network communication associations may be implemented in a single circuit or module on separate circuits or modules executed by one or more processors executed by computer readable instructions incorporated in a machine readable or computer readable medium and or embodied in a handheld device mobile computer and or mobile phone.

It should be noted that the foregoing configurations are merely examples and are not to be construed as limiting the claims. The description of the configurations is intended to be illustrative and not to limit the scope of the claims. As such the present teachings can be readily applied to other types of apparatuses and many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

