---

title: Three-dimensional visualization of a form
abstract: The embodiments described herein provide various techniques for visually representing a form. For example, objects associated with a form and the hierarchical relationships between the objects may be identified. Three-dimensional representations of the identified objects are then displayed. The positioning of the three-dimensional representations as displayed is based on the hierarchical relationships between the objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08405652&OS=08405652&RS=08405652
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08405652
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080909
---
The present disclosure relates generally to form presentation and more particularly in an example embodiment relates to a three dimensional visualization of a form.

When designing a form a user may arrange objects that comprise the form into various groups. For organizational purposes as an example a user may arrange the groups of objects in a hierarchical structure where the groups are ranked relative to each other. The relationships between the groups are typically displayed as a flat hierarchal tree in a window region next to another window region that displays the form as laid out on a canvas. This hierarchal tree allows a user to see the relationships between the groups of objects and also to select particular groups or an individual object of interest.

It should be noted that a form may have many groups of objects. As an example a form may have hundreds of objects and the objects may be grouped into multiple levels of subgroups. The window region that displays the hierarchal tree has limited viewing area and as a result such a window region can only display a portion of the hierarchical tree. Such a display provides a user with a limited view of the relationships and can make the identification of relationships between the groups difficult when the user is designing the form.

The description that follows includes illustrative systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody the present invention. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

The embodiments described herein provide various techniques for visually representing a form. For example objects associated with a form and the hierarchical relationships between the objects may be identified. Three dimensional representations of the identified objects are then displayed. As will be explained in more detail below the positioning of the three dimensional representations as displayed is based on the hierarchical relationships between the objects.

The objects that comprise a form may be organized in a hierarchical structure which is a system for ranking various objects. A graphical representation of an example hierarchical structure is illustrated in . In the illustrated example the hierarchical structure can be a tree structure where links branch out from one or more objects without forming closed loops. As depicted in objects organized in the hierarchal structure include for example subform objects e.g. Subform and Subform checkbox objects e.g. CheckBox decimal field objects circle objects e.g. Circle company logo objects header objects and text field objects e.g. Name Address City State ZipCode and Country . Each object included in the hierarchal structure is ranked relative to each other object. For example the text field objects are included in the Subform object and as a result the text field objects are subordinate to the Subform object . In another example a Checkbox object and a Circle object included in a Subform object and therefore the Checkbox object and the Circle object are subordinate to the Subform object .

The objects are organized in a hierarchical structure for a variety of purposes. As an example objects are ranked relative to each other such that the objects may be grouped in one or more organizational units. An organizational unit as used herein refers to a classification of objects into an entity. Generally an organizational unit can be used in form design to provide additional functionality that individual objects typically cannot provide. An example of an organizational unit is a container object which is an object that can include or contain other objects. The container object may be used to group objects together such that this group can operate independent of other groups. Container objects provide a way to organize a complex form. Additionally container objects can span multiple forms and as a result can also be used to encapsulate dynamically extracted data that may span multiple forms.

Another example of an organizational unit is a subform object or subform which is a section of a form that provides anchoring layout and or geometry management for objects. Subforms may be used to organize a form into different sections. More than one subform may be used in a form and it should be noted that subforms may be placed inside other subforms. As an example a subform may be created that is configured to receive address information. If other forms need the same address information then the subform may be duplicated and included in other forms such that the objects included within the subform do not need to be re created.

The processing system executes an operating system that manages the software processes and or services executing on the processing system . As depicted in these software processes and or services may include a form design application . In general the form design application provides software tools for creating interactive forms. The form design application may include a three dimensional graphics framework module and a three dimensional visualization module . The three dimensional visualization module is configured to display the objects that comprise a form in three dimensions. As will be explained in more detail below the three dimensional visualization module further positions the three dimensional representations of the objects relative to each other based on the hierarchal relationships between the objects.

The three dimensional graphics framework is a wrapper library that allows application programming interfaces associated with computer graphics to be used in a variety of different environments. The three dimensional visualization module interfaces with the three dimensional graphics framework module to render the graphical representations of the objects in three dimensions. An example of a three dimensional graphics framework module is an Open Graphics Library OpenGL Wrapper that emulates application programming interface calls through OpenGL commands and other platform specific commands.

It should be appreciated that in other embodiments the form design application may include fewer more or different modules apart from those depicted in . For example in an example embodiment the three dimensional graphics framework module may be merged with the three dimensional visualization module into a single module.

As depicted in one or more objects associated with the form are identified at . The definitions of the objects are stored in the form and as a result the objects may be identified by loading the form and reading the defined objects. One or more hierarchal relationships between the objects are also identified at . The hierarchal structure of the objects which defines the hierarchal relationships between the objects may also be defined in the form. For example objects that comprise the form may be defined in a particular format and the format itself may define the hierarchal structure of the objects. For example objects defined in a form may be based on the XML format that provides for the nesting of objects. This nesting is used to derive the hierarchal structure and ultimately the hierarchal relationships between the objects.

After the objects are identified three dimensional representations of the objects are retrieved at . A three dimensional representation as used herein is a graphical three dimensional model of an object or a form and such model may be created with the use of a variety of three dimensional modeling software. A three dimensional representation may be constructed for every object and such three dimensional representation may be stored in the form design application or in another location. With the objects identified the form design application searches for the three dimensional representations associated with those objects and displays the three dimensional representations at . As explained in more detail below the positions of the objects as displayed are based on the hierarchal relationships between the objects.

However depicts three dimensional representations of the same objects and that visually show the hierarchal relationships between the objects and . A user can select to view three dimensional representations of the objects and depicted . Upon such a selection in an example embodiment the view depicted in may be directly replaced with a view of the three dimensional representations of the objects and which are depicted in . In an alternate example embodiment the view depicted in may transition to the view depicted in with animation of the objects and that starts from the top or overhead view depicted in and then rotating into the perspective view depicted in for a duration of approximately one or more seconds. As depicted in the three dimensional representations of the objects and are positioned relative to each other based on the hierarchal relationships between the objects and . The objects and are positioned along a vertical Z axis or a direction perpendicular to the X Y plane based on the hierarchal relationships. In this example hierarchal structure the rectangular object and the button object are ranked equally while the button object is ranked higher than the rectangular object and the button object . As a result both the rectangular object and the button object are positioned along the same plane while the button object is positioned on a higher plane along the vertical Z axis .

The three dimensional representations of the objects and are displayed such that they appear to be viewed from a three point perspective. In a three point perspective the graphical representations of the objects and include three vanishing points. In reference to the X Y and Z Cartesian axes depicted in a three point perspective exists when a picture plane is not parallel to any of the three X Y and Z axes. From a three point perspective the hierarchal relationships between the objects and can be visually identified based on the positioning of the objects and along the vertical Z axis . In another example embodiment the three dimensional representations of the objects and are rotatable around for example the vertical Z axis the X axis or the Y axis. As a result the three dimensional representations may be rotated to provide views from different perspectives such as from a one point perspective which includes one vanishing point or from a two point perspective which includes two vanishing points.

In an example embodiment the two dimensional representation as depicted in may also be displayed with the three dimensional representation. For example as depicted in the two dimensional representations of the objects and are overlaid over the three dimensional representations of the objects and . Alternatively the two dimensional representations may be displayed separately from the three dimensional representations but located in the same display. As an example the two dimensional representations may be displayed on half a screen while the three dimensional representations may be displayed on the other half of the same screen. The display of both the two dimensional representations and the three dimensional representations together provides a complete view of the form as the two dimensional representations show the actual or final rendering of the form while the three dimensional representations show the hierarchal relationships between the objects and . In an example embodiment either the two dimensional representations or the three dimensional representations of the objects and may be made semi transparent such that both representations are visible.

In an example embodiment the objects and that comprise the form may also be displayed in three dimensions. depicts three dimensional representations of the same objects and from a three point perspective view that shows the hierarchal relationships between the objects and . The hierarchal relationships between the objects and can be visually identified based on the positioning of the three dimensional representations of the objects and along the vertical Z axis . In the example of the three dimensional representations of the text objects are positioned higher than the three dimensional representations of the row objects . As a result the text objects are ranked higher than the row objects in the hierarchical structure.

When designing a form for example a user may select a particular object for editing. In an example embodiment the three dimensional representations are selectable. For example if a user wants to edit a particular text field object then the user may click on the three dimensional representation of the text field object . The three dimensional representation of the text field object may be highlighted upon selection and in an example embodiment the user may directly edit the text field object from the three dimensional representation. In another example embodiment the selection may trigger a switch to a two dimensional representation of the text field object . As an example the user may select the three dimensional representation of the text field object and in response the view switches to a two dimensional representation of the text field object such as the two dimensional representation depicted in . From this two dimensional representation the user may edit the selected text field object .

In the three dimensional view some three dimensional representations of objects may be blocked from view by three dimensional representations of other objects. For example as depicted in the three dimensional representations of the row objects are partially blocked by the three dimensional representations of the text field objects because of the limited spacing between the three dimensional representations and also because the three dimensional representations are viewed from a three point perspective. In an example embodiment one or more three dimensional representations of the objects and may be moved such as to provide an unobstructed view of the three dimensional representations of the objects and . For example as depicted in the three dimensional representations of the text field objects may be moved along a direction in the vertical Z axis such that all the three dimensional representations of the row objects are visible. It should be appreciated that in other example embodiments the three dimensional representations may also be moved in a variety of other directions such as in a direction along the X axis or the Y axis.

The hierarchal relationships between the organizational units are identified at and such hierarchal relationships may be based on the hierarchal structure of the organizational units. As an example a form may include two subforms namely a first subform and a second subform. When defined in the form the second subform and its associated objects are nested within the first subform. The hierarchal relationship therefore identifies the second subform being subordinate to the first subform.

In an example embodiment the sizes of the objects are identified at . It should be appreciated that the form may define locations of objects within the form and also sizes of the objects. A form may include coordinates or other values that define the locations and sizes of the objects. As an example defined with a rectangular object are the coordinates for one corner of the rectangular object and additional coordinates for an opposite corner which define both the location and size of the rectangular object. In another example defined with a circle object are the coordinates of the center of the circle object and a radius which define both the location and size of the circle object.

With the objects identified the three dimensional representations of the objects are retrieved at and the positions of the three dimensional representations relative to each other are calculated at . Here the positions of the three dimensional representations are configured to provide a visual representation of the hierarchal relationships between the objects. Accordingly as described above the positions of the three dimensional representations are based on the hierarchal relationships between the objects. The positions calculated may be along a vertical direction where the heights of the objects identify the rankings of the objects. In the example above where the form includes a first subform and a second subform the second subform is positioned below the first subform because the hierarchal relationship identifies that the second subform is subordinate to the first subform.

Still referring to the three dimensional representations are then scaled at based on the identified sizes. For example a size of a particular three dimensional representation may be scaled to a smaller or larger size in proportion to the size identified from the form. The scaled three dimensional representations of the objects are then displayed at with each of the three dimensional representations positioned in the display based on the identified hierarchical relationships.

The example processing system includes processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both main memory and static memory which communicate with each other via bus . The processing system may further include video display unit e.g. a plasma display a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The processing system also includes alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse disk drive unit signal generation device e.g. a speaker and network interface device .

A disk drive unit includes machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. Software may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processor during execution thereof by the processing system main memory and processor also constituting machine readable tangible media.

Software may further be transmitted or received over network via network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

While the invention s is are described with reference to various implementations and exploitations it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the invention s is not limited to them. In general techniques for visually representing a form may be implemented with facilities consistent with any hardware system or hardware systems defined herein. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible.

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Finally boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the invention s . In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the invention s .

