---

title: Hand-held phase-shift detector for sensor applications
abstract: The invention is directed to a novel phase-shift detector capable of interfacing with an array of sensors. The detector is light-weight, portable and capable of fitting within the palm of a hand. The detector may be used in conjunction with a variety of diagnostic, biosensor and chemical sensor applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08456150&OS=08456150&RS=08456150
owner: Drexel University
number: 08456150
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080130
---
This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. R01 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and Grant No. CHE 0442100 awarded by the National Science Foundation the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

The invention relates to a portable hand held phase shift detector capable of interfacing with piezoelectric microcantilever sensors PEMS and methods for using the detector and a system including the detector. The invention is particularly useful as a sensor or diagnostic device.

Biosensors and chemical sensors coupled with impedance analyzers are well known in the art. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 278 379 and U.S. publication nos. 20060257286 and 20060217893 discloses sensor systems incorporating an impedance analyzer to detect changes in resonance frequency.

Current impedance analyzers however are typically bulky heavy and relatively immobile thereby limiting the circumstances in which resonance frequency may be measured. Although some impedance analyzers such as impedance analyzers for determining the physical properties of large structures such as a building and impedance analyzers for determining body composition have been made portable as disclosed by U.S. patent application publication no. 2005 0114045 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 280 396 impedance analyzers for use with chemical sensors or biosensors remain large cumbersome and relatively immobile.

Therefore there is a need to develop a light portable hand held detector to facilitate diagnostic or sensor applications.

The invention is directed to a novel phase shift detector capable of interfacing with an array of sensors.

In another invention the phase shift detector is a hand held device capable of fitting within the palm of a hand.

The invention is directed to a portable hand held phase shift detector capable of simultaneously interfacing with and monitoring one or more sensors as shown in and . Phase shift detector comprises an oscillator a phase detector a relay component and a display screen . The relay component rotates the connection of phase detector and oscillator among the connected sensors in the sensor array to enable phase detector to measure the output of each sensor .

Oscillator comprises a resonance circuit including a transmission line a circuit substrate chip components mounted on the circuit substrate and an amplifying circuit for amplifying a resonance signal generated by the resonance circuit. Connected to sensors by a connection oscillator generates an input signal or voltage to actuate sensors . Oscillator preferably actuates sensors by inducing oscillation of sensors in a frequency range that encompasses the resonance frequencies of sensors to enable detection of resonance frequency shift of sensors resulting from analyte binding.

Phase detector measures the magnitude and phase shift of the output voltage of sensors through a connection . A maximum in the phase shift plotted versus frequency identifies the resonance frequency. A significant shift in resonance frequency indicates the binding of a particular compound or molecule to the specific receptor on a sensor surface and thereby verifies the presence of said compound or molecule in the environment being tested.

In one embodiment oscillator may be a microprocessor controlled signal generator. Phase shift detector may optionally include a display screen for displaying results in any suitable manner such as in a numerical or graphical format. In a preferred embodiment phase shift detector may also include a data transmitter for transmitting data to an electronic information storage medium such as a computer or computer disk. Display screen or other suitable means may function as an indicator which provides an indication of the presence of a specific analyte. Alternatively display screen or other suitable means may function as an indicator which provides an indication if a specific analyte is present in an amount which exceeds a threshold value.

As shown in portable hand held phase shift detector may be incorporated in or work in conjunction with any suitable sensor system. In a preferred embodiment phase shift detector is associated with one or more piezoelectric microcantilevers PEMS or piezoelectric micro disks and enables detection of the magnitude and phase shift of an output voltage of each PEMS. Phase shift detector may be powered by any standard power source. In a preferred embodiment the power source is portable small and lightweight such as a typical 9 volt battery. Hand held phase shift detector unit may be about 3.5 inches by 7.5 inches in size. Preferably phase shift detector unit may be simultaneously connected to a plurality of sensors. In a preferred embodiment phase shift detector unit is simultaneously connected to from about eight sensors to about thirty two sensors. Preferably the entire system is sufficiently small to be carried by a single person to a site of detection.

In a preferred embodiment the hand held phase shift detector has dimensions of up to about 7.5 cm deep by about 30 cm high by about 30 cm wide and weight of no more than about 2 kg and may simultaneously operate as many as 32 sensors. The array sensors and their holder may be no larger than about 2 cm in width about 2 cm in depth and about 1 cm in height and weigh no more than 50 g. The phase shift detector may further include a relay mechanism such as a ribbon cable for facilitating connection and connection . Preferably the ribbon cable is less than 1 m long less than 3 cm wide and weighs less than 50 g. Preferably the total weight of the system including hand held phase shift detector and sensors is not more than 2.5 kg.

Advantageously small the device is both portable and robust. In a preferred embodiment the device may fit within the palm of a hand. Since the phase shift detector is simple in design it may be easily and inexpensively manufactured and may be made available as an off the shelf product for numerous applications. The phase shift detector may be used in biosensor diagnostics or any molecular or chemical sensor applications.

A hand held phase shift detector in combination with an array of 3 PEMS was used to detect the presence of various antigens. Each PEMS had a different receptor immobilized on its surface including anti gp120 anti PSA and scFv of Her2. gp120 is a surface protein on human immunodeficiency viruses HIV . PSA prostate specific antigen is a prostate cancer marker and HER2 is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor linked to breast cancer and other cancers and scFv is an engineered single chain variable fragment receptor.

The PEMS were placed in 3 different solutions each containing an antigen specific to each receptor. As shown in the phase shift detector correctly reported that only the PEMS having the antigen specific receptor corresponding to the marker present in the solution responded when the array was submerged in each solution. shows that only the PEMS with scFv to HER2 responded to HER2. shows that only the PEMS with antibodies to PSA responded to PSA and shows that only the PEMS with antibodies to gp120 responded to gp120. This experiment clearly illustrates that the phase shift detector and PEMS array are capable of simultaneously detecting multiple antigens.

The hand held phase shift detector in combination with a PEMS array may also be used to detect gases chemicals. Unlike biological detection where antibody antigen binding is specific most receptors for gas chemical detection are not selective. By using a PEMS array having different receptors it is possible to create a customized detection pattern for a gas or chemical. The custom combination of the PEMS array increases detection sensitivity and the accuracy of chemical or gas detection. shows a unique PEMS array for dimethyl methylphosphonate DMMP a nerve gas simulant.

Three lead magnesium niobate lead titanate solid solution PMN PT Cu PEMS are each coated with a different receptor which is immobilized on the PEMS surface by microporous silica mesoporous alumina and a monolayer of Cuions on a self assembled monolayer of 11 mercaptoundecanoic acid MUA to detect DMMP.

Having described the preferred embodiments of the invention which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting it is noted that modifications and variations can be made by persons skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments of the invention disclosed which are within the scope and spirit of the invention as outlined by the appended claims. Having thus described the invention with the details and particularity required by the patent laws the intended scope of protection is set forth in the appended claims.

