---

title: Universal affinity system
abstract: An improved universal affinity system and method is uniquely configured to be implemented and operated with a reduced impact on existing merchant point of sale and affinity systems. The improved system and method also enables merchants to provide highly targeted incentives and advertising to users of the universal affinity system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429009&OS=08429009&RS=08429009
owner: Paycode Inc.
number: 08429009
owner_city: Henderson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080716
---
Individual merchant based affinity systems are in widespread use as are affinity programs that are tied to a particular method of payment such as a credit card. Examples of merchant based affinity systems include Best Buy s Reward Zone program Staples Rewards program and Barnes Noble s Member program. Examples of affinity programs that are tied to a particular method of payment include for example the Membership Rewards program of American Express. Typically customers must sign up for each affinity program or always use the same method of payment and carry identification cards or key fobs for multiple programs. Also affinity data is limited to customer purchase activities at a single merchant or through a single method of payment. Moreover customers must share personal information with each merchant when enrolling in an affinity program potentially subjecting the customer to unwanted spam or junk mail.

There have been attempts to provide a more universal approach to affinity programs but those attempts have still required customers to sign up for each affinity program separately and to obtain separate identifications for each system or they have required the merchants and retailers to give up control over their affinity programs and transaction data to another entity.

An improved universal affinity system and method described and claimed herein is uniquely configured to be implemented and operated with a reduced impact on existing merchant point of sale and affinity systems. The improved system and method also enables merchants to provide highly targeted incentives and advertising to users of the universal affinity system.

In one embodiment the system is used by a first entity to provide to customers of an entity that partners with the first entity universal access to affinity systems of a plurality of merchants. The first entity allocates to the partner entity a plurality of universal identifiers and the partner entity issues a respective one of the universal identifiers to each of a plurality of customers. The system comprises a universal management server that receives from the partner entity on behalf of its customers requests from the customers to activate their respective universal identifiers. In response to each such request the universal management server allocates memory on the universal management server to create a personal account locker for the customer and automatically enrolls the customer in the affinity systems of one or more merchants. Each merchant accepts the same universal identifier of the customer as an identifier within the merchant s affinity system. The universal management server may then receive from one of the merchants information comprising an incentive and the universal identifier s of one or more customers who are to receive the incentive. In response the server may store the information comprising the incentive in the personal account lockers of the customer s having the received universal identifiers. A customer may be provided access to his or her personal account locker via a website hosted by the partner entity. A link may be provided from the partner website to the personal account locker on the universal management server.

Thus the universal affinity system and method may allow a customer to avoid carrying and presenting paper coupons and multiple merchant affinity cards. The system may also enable the merchants retailers to leverage their existing affinity systems with new customers and to increase customer acquisition for their affinity programs. Merchants have the ability to offer incentives to a much larger group of customers than the group of customers available to the merchant through its individual affinity program. Because each merchant operates its own affinity system the merchants can target incentives to customers based on any of their own criteria such as offering incentives only to customers who have a history of buying particular classes of products live in a particular geographic area or shop in particular types of stores. That is merchants may leverage their existing affinity systems to truly target individuals based on actual purchasing habits while running incentives on items known to be of interest to the individual. The system may also provide retailers with enhanced visibility and the ability to quickly inform customers both existing and possible new customers with visual and descriptive information on incentives being made available to the particular customer or all customers via their personal account lockers. A merchant may also avoid adding substantial software to its point of sale systems and may avoid routing transaction data out to secondary i.e. non affiliated parties for process or approval.

The ensuing detailed description provides exemplary embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements and steps without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The system enables a customer e.g. customer of one of the partner entities e.g. partner to use a universal identifier ID that has been issued to that customer by the partner entity whenever purchasing items or services at various ones of the participating merchants . . . and to have that universal ID recognized by each merchant s own merchant affinity system . . . . In this manner the customer does not have to carry a separate ID for each different merchant affinity system.

Additionally the system enables a merchant to determine incentives such as discounts advertisements or other offers for a given customer or set of customers using the merchant s own affinity system and based on the merchant s own point of sale POS transaction data and then to have those incentives uploaded to respective personal account lockers of those customers e.g. personal account lockers hosted by the universal management server .

Each partner entity hosts a website that its customers may log into to activate their universal IDs and to access their personal account lockers. A web page of the partner website will in one embodiment provide each customer with a link e.g. URL to the customer s respective personal account locker on the universal management server. Communications between a customer s computer and a partner hosted website may take place over a network such as the Internet or any other network connecting the two. Communications between the partner hosted website and the universal management server and communications between the universal management server and the affinity systems . . . may also take place over a network such as the Internet or a private network.

In one embodiment the system generally operates as follows. The management entity for example the management entity s universal management server generates a number of unique universal IDs each of which is intended to be used by a customer as an identifier of the customer in the universal affinity system . In one embodiment each universal ID e.g. universal ID comprises a unique numerical or alpha numerical identifier that may be encoded in a variety of different ways such as as a bar code as information stored on a magnetic stripe such as on a credit or debit card as information stored on a wireless device such as a FOB wand mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA or the like. An example universal ID may be 123A 45BC 6789 DEFG H123. 

In an embodiment in which the universal ID is encoded as a bar code the bar code may be provided to a corresponding customer on a variety of different media such as on an adhesive label that the customer may apply to another device or item printed on a credit or debit card printed on a key chain card or printed on any other device or item that a customer may be likely to carry with him or her. In one embodiment the universal ID may be an existing identifier of the customer issued by a different entity i.e. one that is not one of the management partner or merchant entities of the affinity system that is then recognized by the management entity partner entities and merchants as a universal ID in the universal affinity system such as for example the bar code identifier on a driver s license health insurance card gym membership card passport or other item associated with the customer.

The management entity then allocates a number of universal IDs to each partner entity . Each partner entity may then issue a universal ID to each of or to a selected group of its customers such as customer along with an invitation for the customer to activate the universal ID and begin participating in the universal affinity system. In some embodiments the management entity may issue the universal IDs to customers on behalf of the partner entity ies .

A customer wishing to participate in the system may log on to a website hosted by the partner entity e.g. website and to proceed through an activation process. As described more fully below the customer may enter information about himself or herself in the form of a customer profile and may also enter the universal ID issued to the customer and which the customer wishes to activate.

The partner entity may then transmit the customer s profile and universal ID to the universal management server with a request to activate that universal ID for use by the customer. In response to the request the universal management server may create a personal account locker on the server for the customer e.g. one of the personal account lockers and may associate the customer s universal ID with that personal account locker. The personal account locker may comprise a portion of memory on the universal management server that has been allocated to the customer.

As an additional part of the activation process which is described more fully below the universal management server may automatically enroll the customer in the affinity systems . . . of one or more merchants . . . . In one embodiment each merchant agrees to accept the universal ID of a customer as an identifier within that merchant s own affinity system. This avoids the need for the customer to have a separate identifier for each merchant affinity system.

In one embodiment the management entity and a partner entity may be the same entity. In such a case that single entity alone may perform the functions described herein of both the management entity and server and a partner entity and server. In such a case that single entity may generate and issue universal IDs to customers. There may or may not be other partner entities in such a scenario.

Once the universal ID of the customer has been activated and the customer has been enrolled in one or more merchant affinity systems the user may purchase goods and services at for example retail locations of the merchants or via online shopping websites e.g. website operated by the merchants. At a retail location a customer may have his or her universal ID entered into the point of sale POS system e.g. POS system . . . or of the participating merchant at the time of consummating a purchase transaction. The universal ID may be entered in any of a variety of ways such as by scanning a bar code representation of the universal ID at a terminal of the merchant s POS system by swiping a magnetic stripe containing information representing the universal ID by entering a sequence of numeric or alphanumeric digits representing the universal ID or by any other suitable means. Information about the customer s transaction may then be stored by the merchant s affinity system in an account associated with the universal ID. In this manner the customer may accumulate points or other awards or incentives based on the customer s transaction history as is conventional in a given merchant affinity system.

At some point in time for example after a certain level of transaction activity has been reached by one or more customers at a given participating merchant . . . the merchant may desire to target incentives at those customer s . As used herein and in the claims the term incentive refers to all types of incentives advertising promotions discounts or other offers to a customer. The system enables the merchant to communicate with the universal management server to upload a particular incentive s to the universal server along with one or more universal IDs e.g. a batch of universal IDs associated with the customer s who the merchant wishes to receive the particular incentive. The incentives and universal IDs may be uploaded via an electronic communication between the merchant s affinity system and the universal management server or in other embodiments the universal management server may provide a website that a merchant may log into to manually enter information about an incentive and the universal IDs of customers who are to receive the incentive.

In response to the uploading of a particular incentive and one or more universal IDs the universal management server may then route the incentive or information representing or describing the incentive to the personal account lockers associated with the universal ID s received from the merchant and the incentive is then stored in each of those personal account lockers. In this manner each merchant is able to target particular incentives to one or more customers.

Thus the universal affinity system may allow a customer to avoid carrying and presenting paper coupons and multiple merchant affinity cards. The system may also enable the merchants retailers to leverage their existing affinity systems with new customers and to increase customer acquisition for their affinity programs. Merchants have the ability to offer incentives to a much larger group of customers than the group of customers available to the merchant through its individual affinity program. Because each merchant operates its own affinity system the merchants can target incentives to customers based on any of their own criteria such as offering incentives only to customers who have a history of buying particular classes of products live in a particular geographic area or shop in particular types of stores. That is merchants may leverage their existing affinity systems to truly target individuals based on actual purchasing habits while running incentives on items known to be of interest to the individual. The system may also provide retailers with enhanced visibility and the ability to quickly inform customers both existing and possible new customers with visual and descriptive information on incentives being made available to the particular customer or all customers via their personal account lockers. A merchant may also avoid adding substantial software to its point of sale systems and may avoid routing transaction data out to secondary i.e. non affiliated parties for process or approval.

The universal management server may further include a process that generates unique universal IDs and allocates sets of the universal IDs to different partner entities e.g. entities and . In other embodiments generation of universal IDs may be performed by another server or method either by the management entity or by another entity on behalf of the management entity. In one embodiment a portion of each universal ID allocated to each partner entity may be used to identify that partner entity in order distinguish the universal IDs allocated from one partner from those allocated to a different partner. In this manner the universal management server upon receipt of a particular and unique universal ID from a customer partner entity or merchant would be able to distinguish which partner entity issued that universal ID to the customer.

The universal management server may also include an enrollment process that handles universal ID activation on behalf of a customer and handles customer enrollment in the affinity systems of various merchants . . . . The enrollment processing performed by one embodiment of the universal management server is described in greater detail below in connection with .

A database may be hosted by the universal management server to store information about customers who have successfully enrolled in the universal affinity system and to store information about the participating partner entities and participating merchants. The database may include portions of storage or memory allocated to represent each personal account locker created on the server . In other embodiments the personal account lockers may comprise storage or memory allocated outside of the customer merchant partner database . Also in other embodiments the database may be stored on a different computing system to which the universal management server would then access to obtain information.

The universal management server may also include an incentive routing process that routes incentives uploaded to the server by a merchant to the personal account lockers of customers identified by the merchant as those who are to receive those incentives. The incentive routing process performed by one embodiment of the universal management server is described in greater detail below in connection with .

Still further the universal management server may include a web server or other application module or process that provides a customer access to the incentive information stored in the customer s personal account locker.

The partner server may further include a web server that hosts a web site to which customers of the partner entity may log on and that provides links from the web site hosted by the web server to the respective personal account lockers on the universal management server . In this manner the personal account lockers of the customers may appear to be a part of the web site hosted by the partner entity. In one embodiment each link is in the form of a uniform resource locator URL .

In order for a customer to participate in the universal affinity system on line activation enrollment may be required. is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a method for activating a universal ID of a customer on a partner server such as server of . The steps illustrated in may for example be the steps performed by the activation enrollment process illustrated in . In this embodiment prior to attempting to activate a universal ID the customer will have been issued the universal ID by the partner entity. For example in the case where a partner entity comprises a credit or debit card issuer the issuer may have provided the customer with a new credit card on which a bar code representation of the universal ID has been printed. Alternatively the universal ID may have been encoded on the magnetic stripe of the new credit card. As still another alternative the credit card company may have mailed to the customer some other form of media such as an adhesive label that the customer would then apply to his or her credit card or to any other suitable item. In other embodiments the partner may provide a special card bearing the universal ID. And as mentioned above in yet other embodiments an identifier issued to the customer by another entity such as the bar code on a customer s driver s license and the numeric or alpha numeric value it represents is used as the universal ID that the customer must then activate in the universal affinity system.

As shown in in step the customer accesses the partner server e.g. partner server through an internet based interface. For example the customer may log onto the website hosted by a partner. An internet based interface is used in this embodiment because of wide spread access and high comfort level to a wide variety of customers. Other types of interfaces could be provided for example an interface provided through a mobile phone or a telephone based registration process using a customer service representative.

After accessing the interface the customer may create a user name and password represented by step . At step the customer may enter profile information and preferences. Profile information may include the customer s name mailing address and e mail address and may include other information such as purchasing habits and or affinities. Preferences may include for example privacy preferences the preferred means of communication with the customer as well as which types of incentives the customer may desire to receive or not receive. Preferences may also allow the customer to select how customer communications will be transmitted for example by e mail mail or to a mobile phone. The customer may also enter the universal ID for example the numeric or alphanumeric digits of the identifier that has previously been issued to the customer by the partner entity. It is this universal ID that will be activated for the customer.

In one embodiment the customer may be automatically enrolled in the affinity systems of all of the participating merchants. However in another embodiment as represented by steps and shown in dashed lines the customer may be given the option to opt out of individual merchant affinity programs as represented by step . If the customer elects to opt out of specific programs the customer may select those programs that he or she wishes to opt out of and may be given the option to opt out based on particular criteria for example to exclude merchants that only offer goods in a particular category that is not of interest to the customer or are located outside of the customer s normal shopping region. The customer s selection of opt out criteria is represented by step . Once the customer has completed selecting opt out criteria the opt out criteria and or selections may be noted as part of the information in the customer s profile as shown in step .

In step the partner server sends the universal ID entered by the customer along with the customer s profile including any merchant affinity system opt out selections to the universal management server . After the universal management server has activated the universal ID and effectively enrolled the customer in the universal affinity system the partner server will receive an acknowledgment of successful activation enrollment from the universal management server as shown at step . In response the partner server may then enable the customer to access the customer s personal account locker. For example the partner server may provide an HTML link on the website hosted by web server that the customer can click to access the personal account locker. The HTML link may be implemented as a URL that causes a web browser of the customer to connect to the web server on the universal management server to provide access to the personal account locker on the universal management server. However it may appear to the customer as if the personal account locker resides with the partner entity. Once access to the customer s personal account locker has been enabled the activation enrollment process is essentially complete as shown at step .

In step the server creates a personal account locker for the customer and associates the customer s universal ID with the account locker. In one embodiment the personal account locker comprises memory that is allocated for the personal account locker in order to store information representing the incentives uploaded to the customer by one or more merchants. It is understood that there are many ways to allocate such memory and the invention is not limited on any one method. For example in one embodiment the personal account locker may comprise a field or fields allocated within a relational database.

In step the server sends an acknowledgement of successful activation or enrollment back to the partner entity e.g. partner server . The server then performs a process of automatically enrolling the customer in one or more of the affinity systems of participating merchants. It is understood that in other embodiments the step of sending an acknowledgement of successful activation enrollment may be sent after the customer has been enrolled in the affinity systems of participating merchants or after enrollment in some pre defined number of merchant affinity systems has been completed.

The process of enrollment begins at step where a merchant is selected for customer enrollment. In step the universal management server attempts to determine whether the particular customer is already a member of the merchant s affinity system or not. In one embodiment this is performed by attempting to synchronize fields of the customer s profile with corresponding fields of the database of the merchant s affinity system. For example the universal management server may interrogate the merchant s affinity system whether a LAST NAME field of the customer s profile matches any accounts in the merchant affinity system that have a corresponding LAST NAME field. If there are any matches then the server may move to the FIRST NAME field of the customer s profile and interrogate the merchant s affinity system to determine if any of the accounts with matching LAST NAME fields also have matching FIRST NAME fields. If there are matches then the server may move to an ADDRESS or PHONE NUMBER field and so on. This process may continue until there is only one matching account identified in the merchant s affinity system and there has been sufficient field matching for the system to conclude that the customer is an existing member of the merchant s affinity system. Rules for determining when there is sufficient matching may be programmable and may be different for different merchants. Also the particular fields involved in the comparison and the order in which they are compared may also be programmed and may also vary from merchant to merchant.

As shown in step if the customer has been determined by the process described above to be an existing member of the merchant s affinity system then at step the server may flag the customer as an existing customer of that merchant in the universal management server database and may request the merchant s affinity system to associate the customer s universal ID with the existing account for the customer in the merchant s affinity system. The server may then wait for receipt of an acknowledgement from the merchant s affinity system step . If there are other merchant affinity systems in which the customer is to be enrolled step then control will pass back to step to select the next merchant and the process will be repeated for that merchant. If enrollment in all of the participating merchant affinity systems or all of the ones for which the customer did not otherwise opt out is complete then the activation enrollment process is complete as shown at step .

If in step the customer has not been identified as a existing member in the merchant s affinity system i.e. the customer will be a new member then in step the universal management server may flag the customer as a new customer for that merchant in the universal management server database and may transmit a limited set of fields of the customer profile or in some cases may transmit the entire customer profile to the merchant s affinity system with a request to enroll the customer in the merchant s system using the universal ID as the identifier of the customer s account in that affinity system. Steps and will then be performed as described above. As mentioned above the profile sent to the merchant affinity system may be a limited one i.e. not include all of the fields of the customer profile provided by the partner entity in order to limit the amount of information about the customer to the various merchants. This may be desirable from a customer privacy standpoint. However it is contemplated that at least the minimum amount of information required by the merchant to become a member in the merchant s affinity system will need to be transmitted. And the amount and types of information from the customer s profile that will need to be transmitted may differ from merchant to merchant. For example some merchants may require a telephone number whereas others may not.

At steps and for each incentive the universal management server will then store the incentive i.e. the information such as text and or graphics defining the incentive in the personal account lockers associated with each of the respective universal IDs received from the merchant. Thus the merchant is able to target specific incentives to specific customers universal IDs or to broadcast an incentive to all customers. In one embodiment the universal management server may modify the format of the text and or graphics representing the incentive so that the information may display properly when accessed by a customer via the web server .

In one embodiment when a customer accesses the customer s PAL and views a particular incentive that has been uploaded to the PAL the incentive may include an activation component e.g. button link etc. that the customer must click in order to activate the particular incentive being offered. In one embodiment if the customer clicks on the activation component information reflecting the customer s click may be transmitted back to the merchant that uploaded the incentive. The merchant s affinity system may then record the activation prior to the customer entering the store or merchant on line shopping site and buying an item to which the incentive applies. For example in this scenario a customer may visit the customer s PAL and click to activate any incentive for an item they may be interested in buying from a particular merchant. Information reflecting that click may then be relayed to the merchant s affinity system and the offered incentive may then become pending until expired on the merchant s affinity POS system. Should the customer visit the merchant and buy the item either at a retail location or online before the offered incentive expires then the customer would be entitled to enjoy the benefit of the incentive. A customer who does not click to activate a given incentive may not be able to enjoy the benefit of that particular incentive i.e. activation may be required for that incentive.

In one embodiment whenever a customer links over to the on line shopping site of a merchant in order to purchase an item for which an incentive was provided the customer may be required by the merchant to enter the customer s universal ID in order to identify the customer in the merchant s affinity system. However in other embodiments the account information maintained by the merchant for the customer may include in addition to the customer s universal ID one or more web i.e. computer addresses used by the customer when linking to the merchant s online shopping site. For example the customer s home computer may have one address and the customer s laptop computer may have another address. With typical protocols e.g. HTTP TCP IP the address of the computer the customer is using may be passed to the merchant when the user links to the merchant s on line shopping site. If the merchant maintains a record of this address information in the customer s account in the merchant s affinity system the merchant may then be able to identify the customer without requiring the customer to enter the customer s universal ID.

As a source of revenue for the management entity the merchant and or the partner entity that issued the universal ID to a particular customer may be billed for the activity associated with uploading storage and display of incentives via a customer s personal account locker. The merchant may be billed differently depending on whether a particular customer was flagged as a new member or an existing member of that merchant s affinity system. The amount billed may be higher for new members as there is additional value to the merchant of having new customers signed up in its affinity system. Also the merchant may be billed based on actual activity of customers in response to the incentives.

In one embodiment the customer information stored in the central affinity database may be linked to the personal account lockers of the universal management server database . The central affinity server may be configured to communicate directly with the POS system of the merchant through an always on communications link. Having a direct link between the central affinity server and the POS system is typically disfavored by merchants already having an affinity program server . In the case of merchants who do not have existing affinity servers however a direct communication link represents a reasonable tradeoff to the cost of purchasing and installing their own affinity program server. In one embodiment the central affinity server and central affinity database may be implemented and operate with merchants like merchant in the manner that the server the computing application executing on the server and the database operate as described in of co pending application Ser. No. 10 461 659 filed Jun. 13 2003 the contents of which application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In operation CPU fetches decodes and executes instructions and transfers information to and from other resources via the computer s main data transfer path system bus . Such a system bus connects the components in computing system and defines the medium for data exchange. System bus typically includes data lines for sending data address lines for sending addresses and control lines for sending interrupts and for operating the system bus. An example of such a system bus is the PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect bus.

Memory devices coupled to system bus include random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Such memories include circuitry that allows information to be stored and retrieved. ROMs generally contain stored data that cannot easily be modified. Data stored in RAM can be read or changed by CPU or other hardware devices. Access to RAM and or ROM may be controlled by memory controller . Memory controller may provide an address translation function that translates virtual addresses into physical addresses as instructions are executed. Memory controller may also provide a memory protection function that isolates processes within the system and isolates system processes from user processes. Thus a program running in a first mode can access only memory mapped by its own process virtual address space it cannot access memory within another process s virtual address space unless memory sharing between the processes has been set up.

In addition computing system may contain peripherals controller responsible for communicating instructions from CPU to peripherals such as printer keyboard mouse and disk drive .

Display which is controlled by display controller is used to display visual output generated by computing system . Such visual output may include text graphics animated graphics and video. Display may be implemented with a CRT based video display an LCD based flat panel display gas plasma based flat panel display or a touch panel. Display controller includes electronic components required to generate a video signal that is sent to display .

Further computing system may contain network adaptor that may be used to connect computing system to an external communications network . Communications network may provide computer users with means of communicating and transferring information electronically. Communications network also may include but is not necessarily limited to fixed wire local area networks LANs wireless LANs fixed wire wide area networks WANs wireless WANs fixed wire extranets wireless extranets fixed wire intranets wireless intranets fixed wire and wireless peer to peer networks fixed wire and wireless virtual private networks the Internet and the wireless Internet. Additionally communications network may provide distributed processing which involves several computers and the sharing of workloads or cooperative efforts in performing a task. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and that other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It is understood that any or all of the systems methods and processes of the universal affinity system described herein may be embodied in the form of computer executable instructions i.e. program code stored on a computer readable storage medium which instructions when executed by a machine such as a computer perform and or implement the systems methods and processes described herein. Specifically any of the steps operations or functions described above that are performed either at a partner entity or at the universal management server may be implemented in the form of such computer executable instructions. Computer readable storage media include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information. Computer readable storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

Changes may be made to the above described embodiments of the invention without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. This invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but is intended to cover all modifications which are in the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

