---

title: Telecommunication system with enhanced implementation of service operations
abstract: A telecommunication system includes a first node, a second node and a network. The first node is configured with a set of predefined functions and a group of addresses of the telecommunication network such that a session setup request targeted to any address in the group of addresses is routed to the first node, and each address in the group of addresses is associated with at least one of the predefined functions. The second node is configured to send a session setup request to a target address that corresponds to an address in the group of addresses. The first node is configured to determine the function to be performed on the basis of the target address in the session setup request. Information delivery from the second node to the first node is implemented quickly. In the second node the power consumption may be significantly reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08989364&OS=08989364&RS=08989364
owner: Navigil Oy
number: 08989364
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20081222
---
The present invention relates to telecommunications and more particularly to enhanced method of implementing service operations in telecommunications system.

Communication based services are based on interaction between at least two communicating endpoints. Typically a service operation involves a series of messages exchanged between the communicating endpoints and the amount of communicated information is relatively high. In some service applications however the amount of information exchanged at one time is very small.

For example a tracking service is a communication based service that involves a tracking device used as user equipment by the subscriber of the service and a control node. The control node and the user equipment need to exchange information and therewith trigger service operations in one end or in both ends. The amount of exchanged information at one time is fairly small for example from the user end to the control node 

Conventional tracking services apply short messages General Packet Radio Service GPRS transmissions or circuit switched data calls to deliver the required messages. None of these are actually ideally suited for the purpose.

Short messages represent a variety of store and forward type of messaging services where the message is first delivered to a short message system centre and the centre delivers the message to the targeted endpoint. The short messages are easy to compose and manage and they are widely used in services especially in tracking services. However the delivery of short messages may be delayed due to for example congestion in the network or in the short message centre. Typically in critical situations and major holidays the short message centres are not able to handle all the traffic. In some services including the advanced tracking services such delays are not acceptable.

The problem with GPRS based communication is that the handshake process required for assigning a unique IP address for the user equipment and passing this IP address to the control node consumes relatively long period of time. The user equipment needs to be in an active mode during these operations which means that the power consumption increases significantly when the amount of transmissions gets higher. The same problem concerns circuit switched data calls where the wireless transmitter needs to be on during the duration of the data call. High power consumption is in general an highly disliked feature and in tracking devices where the dimension of the apparatus is a critical factor for the service it may be the decisive issue that mandates whether a service succeeds or not.

Furthermore these conventional communication mechanisms are typically charged on a rate basis. However subscribers of the tracking services are typically not willing to commit to operations where they do not have a direct control to the amount of transmitted messages meaning to the size of their monthly bill. Mechanisms that would better adjust to flat fee charging are continuously looked for.

An object of the present invention is to provide a method and an apparatus for implementing the method so as to solve at least one of the above problems. The objects of the invention are achieved by a system a network node user equipment a method and a computer program product which are characterized by what is stated in the independent claims. The preferred embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the dependent claims.

The invention is based on the idea of delivering the required information within session setup request that is one of the early signaling messages exchanged between the user equipment and the network. In order to accomplish this one of the endpoints is configured to be reached through a plurality of addresses of the telecommunications system. Each of these addresses are associated with a an operational function of the service such that the operational function may be invoked in one end of the system by sending a session setup request whose target address corresponds to the function to be initiated.

The invention provides a very rapid mechanism to exchange information especially for a variety of services that apply brief messages. The invented solution provides also several other advantages that are discussed in more detail with the specific embodiments of the invention.

It is appreciated that the following embodiments are exemplary and although the specification may in various places refer to an one or some embodiment s reference is not necessarily made to the same embodiment s or the feature in question does not only apply to a single embodiment. Single features of different embodiments may be combined to provide further embodiments.

The present invention is applicable to any communication system that provides delivery of data streams between at least two communicating endpoints. A variety of systems applying a variety of communication technologies may be used separately or in combinations to implement the embodiments of the invention. Communication systems and technologies evolve continuously and embodiments of the invention will require a number of modifications obvious for a person skilled in the art. All words and expressions of this specification are therefore intended to illustrate not to restrict the embodiments and should be interpreted broadly.

In the following some embodiments of the invention will be described by means an exemplary communication system that provides wide area connectivity to mobile user equipment however without restricting the embodiment to any particular connectivity type. An embodiment of a communication system according to the present invention is illustrated in . It should be noted that only elements necessary for illustrating the invention are shown. It is apparent to a person skilled in the art that actual systems comprise functions and structures that for conciseness are not discussed or depicted in more detail herein. The configuration shown in is a logical representation of an embodiment of the present invention and identifies functional entities thereof. Each of the functions may be realized in a single physical entity or be distributed over multiple physical entities.

When used for subscribed services user equipment typically comprises actual terminal equipment and an identification element that allows associating the subscriber with the terminal element he or she is using. The identification element may be any type of data storage accessible to the terminal equipment for retrieving defined subscriber related data. As is clear to a person skilled in the art the identification element may be implemented in various ways. For example the identification element may be an integrated unit of the user equipment or a detachably connected identification card also called a subscriber identity module. The identification element may alternatively be implemented by a software component included in the terminal element that maps one of the network protocol identifiers for example a media access control MAC address of the communication path to the subscriber information of the user. The terminal equipment may be any equipment or a combination of several pieces of equipment connected to provide a connection with the access network. In the following the term user equipment thus refers to an entity formed by any type of identification element and terminal equipment.

Wide area connectivity refers to an arrangement where mobile user equipment accesses services of the core network over a cellular radio access network where individual cells are formed by base stations. While within the coverage of the cell user equipment communicates via the respective base station. Coverage areas formed by a cluster of cells form radio network subsystems that are applicable to be used as access networks of . Radio network subsystem typically comprises one or more radio network controllers responsible of one or more base transceiver stations. A radio network controller is a network node responsible for the control of the radio resources of one or more base transceiver stations and interfaces the core network . The base transceiver station performs air interface layer processing for example channel coding and interleaving rate adaptation etc. to interface with user equipment.

It should be noted that the configuration of is an exemplary structure of two endpoints that reside in different radio access networks. For a person skilled in the art it is clear that endpoints may also reside in the same radio access network or that access in one or both of the access networks may be of some other fixed or wireless type as will be discussed later.

Mobile user equipment typically operates in different modes. The highest power consumption is associated with transmission and reception modes whereas various kinds of standby or idle modes enable connectivity but with significantly reduced power levels. In the following a mode needed to transmit information to the network and or receive information from the network is referred to as transceiving mode.

A basic step of communication between two endpoints is a session setup request. A session setup procedure in this context thus refers to any exchange of one or more signaling messages performed to initiate a communication link between two endpoints of a communications system. A session setup request refers to a message exchanged in the session setup procedure. Examples of session setup procedures comprise call connections session invitations and the like. In the present embodiment the delivery of information from the user equipment to a defined network node is enhanced by using the session setup request as a signaling message that delivers the necessary information from the user equipment to a network node. This makes the communication significantly quicker and the user equipment needs to remain in the transceiving mode only for a period required to send a session setup request. Preferably but not necessarily some kind of acknowledgement from the network side is also expected such that the user equipment wait that the message has at least been successfully forwarded for transmission to the other endpoint before it exits the transceiving mode. However the acknowledgement does not necessarily have to be from the receiving endpoint. In case the applied network is stable and reliable an acknowledgement from an intermediate node for example a base station or a mobile switching center may be accepted as a trigger to exit from the transceiving mode.

A session setup request is in general a strictly formatted signaling message and without substantial changes to the applied communications system able to deliver only one semantic meaning. This kind of use for session setup request is actually known from the state of the art as a manual parent ping that cost conscious teenagers use to save their phone bill. A single alert from child s number is sometimes used to inform parents that caller is for example ready to be picked up from a previously agreed spot. Such an arrangement is however heavily dependent on one predefined agreement and is naturally not applicable as a basis of communication for a service offered for several users.

In order to achieve adequate applicability to practical network services one of the network nodes in the system is associated with a group of more than one addresses of the applied telecommunication system such that a session setup request targeted to any address in this group of addresses is routed to said network node. Each of these separate addresses is associated in the network node with a semantic meaning to the service such that this semantic meaning can be used to control the operation of the service. Basically this means that by interpreting the target address in a received session setup request the network node may determine which operational function of the service it needs to initiate. The interpretation may be implemented in the control node or in any appropriate intermediate node between the transmitting endpoint and the control node as will be discussed herein.

The routing to one network node through a plurality of addresses is implemented in the embodiment of by means of a plurality of wireless modems each of them assigned with a separate target address. In the configuration of this target address is advantageously a mobile subscriber international ISDN number MSISDN that uniquely defines the wireless modem.

It should be noted that the control node may also apply a combination of different types of modems or other types of devices to which an address of the telecommunication system may be assigned. Use of different access types for accessing the control node reduces dependency from one communication technology and therefore improves redundancy of the system.

The user equipment stores information on predefined indications IND. IND that associate to a service operation and are available in the user equipment end. These indications may be activated for example by the user or through the user interface of the terminal or by an application through an application programming interface. Each of these indications correspond to an operational function of the service operation in the user end and are mapped in the user equipment to a target address addr . . . addr. For example in a user equipment of a person the set of indications could comprise alternatives 

When any of these indications is activated in the user terminal the indication is mapped to the corresponding address and a session setup request to that number is generated and transmitted from the user equipment to the network.

As discussed above the type of the endpoints may be varied without deviating from the scope of protection. For example in case the other endpoint is not user equipment but a radio terminal integrated to an automatic vending machine the set of indications could comprise alternatives 

In the control node end the same addresses addr . . . addr are stored with a group of operational functions F . . . F that correspond with the same service operation as the user equipment indications. A function represents here a procedure that may comprise one action or a group of consecutively performed actions. In a simple case the indication relates to a data indication like entered home or dispensed one unit of diet soft drink X and the function comprises an action to store the information conveyed by the indication to an appropriate record or forward the information to a predefined address. Alternatively the indication may relate to an operational situation that triggers a plurality of actions for example call the guardian call the emergency service update patient s case record trigger monitoring of call acknowledgements etc. .

On the basis of the target address the network routes the session setup request sent by the user equipment to the control node. When the session setup request reaches the control node the control node maps the target address to the operational function and performs it. illustrates an option where mapping between the addresses and functions in the control node end are explicit such that one function corresponds to one address. illustrates an alternative option where functions are generic and one address may be mapped to one or more consecutively or parallelly performed functions.

In the control node end the procedure begins when the control node is operational and standby for messages from user equipment of subscribing users. The target address addr is a MSISDN number and the MSC may continue the call setup procedure conventionally towards the wireless modem to which the MSISDN number addr is assigned. This number routes the call to the control node that receives the call setup request step and maps step the targeted number addr to the operational function F . It is clear that a call setup request conventionally also comprises the number of the calling subscriber that the control node extracts such that the function F may be performed with or to relevant subscriber information.

Let us assume that the network service is a tracking service designed to help a mildly handicapped youngster to get safely through his daily routines. In order to ensure that help is always reachable the service is configured such that when a battery status low message is received from the user equipment the control node will send a notification to an officer responsible of the youngster to change the battery within the next 24 hours. In the embodied case the operational function F thus divides into sub functions 

F send a notification informing on the battery low status to the responsible officer and request acknowledgement

This group of sub functions is activated by the control node when it receives a call setup request to number addr . The exemplary sub functions are run consecutively but depending on the application sub functions may naturally also run in parallel. For example in case F also comprised a sub function F call mother this sub function could be implemented at any stage of the procedure.

With the illustrated configuration information that has a clear semantic meaning associated to the same service operation in both endpoints can be delivered to the control node quickly but without compromising the reliability of the information delivery. Typically only connected calls are charged and therefore also costs related to information delivery of the service can this way be kept very low. For example a reasonable monthly flat fee for this type of communication may be agreed with the network operator. Due to the very short transmission time the power consumption of the user terminal can achieve an ultra low level.

In general an intelligent network IN is a network architecture attached to a basic network fixed or mobile network which enables a flexible implementation and control of services. This is achieved by moving the control of the services away from the switching centre to a separate intelligent network functional unit such that services can be made independent of the operation of the basic network and the structure and software of the basic network need not be altered every time services are changed or added. In an intelligent network there can be several operative service providers in addition to the actual network operator.

In the IN model the control of services is moved from the switching centre of the basic network to a service control function SCF or a service control point SCP in the intelligent network. The service control function contains the service logic and any control related to the service for instance the necessary database and service logic programs. The service control function can be a solely logical function which can be seen as uniform from the viewpoint of a service switching point SSP. However SCF can be implemented in various ways internally it can be distributed internally and the service logic related to it can be distributed into different nodes. The service data can also be distributed into other network nodes than the service logic. For instance the service control function or point SCF SCP can be distributed internally so that it only provides an open interface such as CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture to an external server provided by an external service provider. In such a case the SCP and the external server together form the service control function.

The service switching point SSP in is the mobile switching centre of the basic network. SSP executes a service switching function SSF i.e. identifies the intelligent network service and initiates interworking with the service control point SCP. It should be noted that in other type of configurations the SSP can also be a network element of another kind such as the node responsible for the establishment of the connection in a VoIP protocol Voice IP i.e. a H.323 Gatekeeper. When a call setup request including an intelligent network service is made the service switching point SSP manages the connection.

In order to enable detection and initiation of intelligent network services a call state model BCSM describing the call control operation is maintained in SSP. BCSM may comprise detection points for various services. When SSP detects a detection point in BCSM it hands over the control to the SCP and then waits for responsive operations from the SCP. When an intelligent network service is triggered at the service control point SCP the service logic program SLP is initiated and its operation determines the instructions which the SCP sends to the SSP in each call phase. The SSP interprets the received instructions and implements the call control functions required by them.

The embodiment applying IN may be arranged to correspond with the configurations of the earlier such that SCP acts as a bridge to which session setup requests targeted to a plurality of numbers are directed to and forwards these requests as such to CTN that makes the interpretation between the target address and the operational function as described above. It is also possible to configure the SCP to comprise a service data function SDF which basically corresponds to a database accessible to the SCP . The service logic programs of SCP can request and update data in the SDF . Information allowing mapping between the target addresses and operational functions may be stored in the SDF and used for implementing the mapping between the target addresses and the functions such that SCP may forward to the control node CTN a readily processed command to perform the desired function as will be discussed in the following. Accordingly when SSP encounters a detection point it invokes a query to SCP to wait for further instructions on how to proceed. This query is usually called a trigger. Trigger criteria are defined by the operator and may include the subscriber calling number or the dialed number.

In the user equipment end there is stored an indicator DP IND that in the present network associates with the embodied tracking service and may be used to make SSP to invoke a query to SCP of the tracking service. In the present embodiment 500 represents a digit string set to correspond to this indicator. illustrates only data sets related to one service but it is clear that user equipment may comprise separate data sets for more that one services. As in the user equipment stores information on predefined indications IND . . . IND that associate with a particular service operation in the user end. In this embodiment these indications are represented with digit strings chart . . . char that form the whole or a part of digits of a target address in a call setup request. These digit strings comprise information that may be used to identify a function of the service operation to be performed in the control node end. In case not all digits of the applied numbering scheme are needed to indicate the function part of the target address may be used to deliver one or more variable values to be utilized at performing the function in the control node end. For simplicity an example using one delivered variable is discussed in the following. The amount of variables may be adjusted by different allocation of digits to address part and variable part in the generated target address. For correct interpretation it is naturally clear that the format of the target address needs to be carefully predefined.

In the present embodiment for one or more indications there is stored a set of predefined values or an input procedure for determining a variable value to be associated with an activated indication. A set of predefined variables may be implemented for example as a table of values that the user may select through the user interface of that may be selected by a user application. The input procedure may be implemented for example as a user equipment application that retrieves an input for example a user input or an operational parameter of the user equipment computes a result value from that input using a predefined function and outputs the result value as the predefined value to be provided with the indication.

Let us assume for example that the user equipment comprises an application that measures the battery level of the user equipment and keeps the control node informed on the battery level such that necessary actions may be decided and initiated in the control node end. This application is configured to activate IND at defined intervals and provide the measured battery level BATT as an input value to be delivered to the tracking service. When an indication IND is activated the user equipment generates a target address that comprises the IN service indicator DP IND 500 and a digit string char that corresponds to the activated indication IND. In the example of the digit string corresponding to IND is 1234 . In addition the target address may comprise a variable to be used in performing the operational function associated to IND. For example at activating IND also the input procedure INTVAR is invoked and the measured value BATT is adapted to a form XVAR that allows delivery of the measured value with the call setup request to the network. In the example this is made by truncating a measured value 3 87956 V to predefined four digit form 0388 .

Accordingly in the present example the final generated target address is of the form 500 12340388 . User equipment generates a call setup request targeted to this address and transmits it to the network. According to the IN procedures the call setup message or a request compiled from the information on the call setup request is forwarded to the SCP of the tracking service. As shown in SCP stores the digit strings char . . . char and relates them to a group of operational functions F . . . F that correspond to the service operations with the user equipment indications. The relationship may be a one to one mapping between a digit string in the target address and an operational function such that the whole digit string is used to identify the operational function and no variable information is delivered. The relationship may also be a hierarchic multipart mapping where parts of the digit string relate to different selections. For example the digit string may be configured such that the first digit after the IN service indicator indicates the type of the function and the second digit indicates the function itself.

From the call setup request SCP determines the identity UEof the calling subscriber extracts the digit string and determines the corresponding operational function F to be performed in the control node. SCP also checks whether the digit string corresponds to a function without further information or whether the target address comprises also variable information. If such variable information XVAR is included in the target address it either forwards the information in the format as it was received to the control node or transforms the variable to a format accepted by the control node. SCP compiles this information into a message and forwards this message to the control node CTN.

When the control node receives this message it extracts the information in it and performs the function F using the subscriber information of the user of UEand the variable information Xreceived in the message.

The procedure in the user equipment begins in a stage where the user equipment is in one of its standby modes i.e. not in the transceiving mode. The user equipment comprises the application that measures the battery level of the user equipment and at defined time intervals sends the measured value to the control node. Accordingly at a defined time the application inputs a measured value xvar and activates indication IND step stored in the user equipment.

The user equipment maps step the indication IND to the corresponding digit string char and formats the measured value xvar into a digit string XVAR that is accepted by SCP. The user equipment enters transceiving mode and transmits step the call setup request targeted to charXVAR to the network. After sending the call setup request the user equipment remains in the transceiving mode and is standby step for receiving an acknowledgement to the call setup request from the network. Again the network as such may operate conventionally such that the mobile switching canter MSC acknowledges the call setup request by sending an acknowledgement message through the base station subsystem to the user equipment. When this acknowledgement message reaches the user equipment step it exits the transceiving mode step and the basic procedure in the user equipment end terminates.

The procedure in the IN SCP begins in a stage where SCP is in operation and becomes standby step for receiving triggered messages from MSC. A call setup request of UEreceived in MSC triggers a request from MSC to the SCP the message may be the original call setup request received by MSC or a modified query message generated by the MSC. When this message is received in SCP step SCP extracts step from the message the digit string char and XVAR and determines step the function F to be performed in the control node. SCP generates step a message MSG that is targeted to the actual address of the control node and comprises information identifying the user UE the operational function F and the associated variable information XVAR and returns the message MSG step to MSC for delivery to the control node. This terminates the basic procedure in the IN SCP.

The procedure in the control node begins in a stage where the control node is in operation and standby step for receiving messages from the network. When the control node receives step MSG it determines step the function F to be performed and the associated variable information XVAR and using the subscriber information of the user UEand XVAR performs the operational function F. This terminates the basic procedure in the control node.

It should be noted that only steps relevant for illustrating the present invention are shown in . Also the order of steps in individual elements may be changed without deviating from the scope of protection.

With the disclosed arrangement the basic advantages of quick delivery of information reduced power consumption and improved control of fees may be achieved as discussed with the first embodiment. In addition in the present embodiment the IN architecture manages routing of a plurality of addresses to one network node such that part of the available digits in the target address may be utilized to deliver also variable information in this expedited manner from the user equipment to the control node.

Consequently let us assume the call is initiated by the tracking device and the IN service identifier 500 is given in the first part of the called number. Typically the number of digits in the target address is higher than the number of digits in the IN service identifier. This means that in addition to the identifier at least part of the remaining digits can be used for passing additional information between the endpoints. For example in 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP systems up to 27 digits would be available for this type of use. The remaining digits could be used for example such that the first digit defines the type of message being sent command data the second digit defines command or data structure and the following digits define the subcommand and or data values. This way it is possible to code the necessary digits into an ordinary B subscriber number.

The proposed solution may be further developed to allow also delivery of information to the other direction i.e. from the control node to the user equipment. It is clear that the target address in communication from the control node to the user equipment needs to be the address of the user equipment. However the user equipment may be adapted to read the A subscriber number of messages it receives and if the A subscriber number of a message it receives matches with a defined address of the service it interprets the address to correspond with an operational function of the user equipment and performs this operational function.

In case of the embodiment of the defined address may be one of the target addresses used to provide an indication towards the network. In case of the IN architecture the control node may send the information to be forwarded to the user equipment to SCP. The SCP encodes the information to the A subscriber number and forwards this information to the user equipment. Since the key information is derivable from the A subscriber number of a signaling message any signaling message may be used for this purpose. Advantageously a call setup request is also applied in this direction.

Thus if the number of the calling subscriber matches with one of the addresses associated with the service in the user equipment the user equipment maps the address to an operational function and performs the function. For example a particular A subscriber number 04577151009 may in the user equipment be associated with a command to change schedule for battery level report times from daily to twice a day . In case of the first embodiment the address associated with the service may be one of the target addresses associated with the control node. In case of the IN architecture the user equipment stores a set of A subscriber addresses and a corresponding set of user equipment functions.

In order to have positive feedback for success of each communication a further confirmation call method can be deployed. If the call was initiated by the tracking terminal SCP will hang up the call as soon as it has received the B subscriber number. SCP will then immediately call back to the tracking device from a specified number which is recognized by the tracking device as a acknowledgement of successful transmission. Likewise a similar process can be used in the case that the call has been initiated by the control node.

Examples of said input unit in a network node comprise plug in units acting as a gateway for information delivered to its external connection points. For receiving information from the operator of the network element the input unit of the network node may also comprise a keypad or a touch screen a microphone or the like. Examples of said output unit in network node include plug in unit feeding information to the lines connected to its external connection points. For outputting information to the operator of the network element the output unit may also comprise a screen a touch screen a loudspeaker or the like.

The interface block of the user equipment typically comprises at least a user interface unit for communicating with the user and a radio interface unit for communication over the cellular mobile network. In addition the user terminal may comprise additional interface units for communication over another type of cellular network or in another frequency or for local communication. Examples of the technologies used for the local communication comprise Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wi Fi Wi Max Bluetooth Infrared use of cables etc. Depending on the application the implementation of said interface units may comprise a plug in unit exchanging information through lines connected to external connection points of the user terminal or light radio transceiver units with appropriate protocol stacks in the user terminal.

The processing unit memory unit and interface block are electrically interconnected for performing systematic execution of various operations on the received and or stored data according to the predefined essentially programmed processes of the element. The computer programs comprise instructions for executing a computer process for implementing the logical units operations and interfaces of the user equipment and network node as has been described above. The various embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a combination of computer programs and the respective units disclosed above.

The computer programs may be stored on a computer program distribution medium readable by a computer or a processor. The computer program medium may be for example but not limited to an electric magnetic optical infrared or semiconductor system device or transmission medium. The computer program medium may include at least one of the following media a computer readable medium a program storage medium a record medium a computer readable memory a random access memory an erasable programmable read only memory a computer readable software distribution package a computer readable signal a computer readable telecommunications signal computer readable printed matter and a computer readable compressed software package.

Typically tracking service provides to its subscribers a lifeline that needs to be maintained continuously in any kind of environments. The proposed method of delivering information coded in a subscriber address provides a reliable method for transferring vital application information between a network node and the user equipment. The embodied solution however provides also an alternative or additional method to deliver subscriber specific information without having to carry it in the payload of a data message.

The part of the coded message that follows the command identification 61 conventionally comprises a C number i.e. a number to which the call is forwarded if the A subscriber does not answer. In this embodiment this part is replaced by a character set that comprises one or more fields which identify the type of the message refer to a function of the service and carry application data for the identified function. In this example the application data comprises information that status information e.g. location information provided as heart beat reports for the tracking service.

HLR may store this call forwarding information conventionally into a record CFrec of the subscriber information of the subscriber UE. Typically the call forward command protocols provide a mechanism for UE to query its own call forwarding information. For example in order to have positive feedback on successful storing of the above message into HLR UE can call 61 and receive via the system the call forwarding information including the C number stored in the record CFrec of HLR. UE may match this information with the information UE sent to the network and thereby verify that the information is stored in appropriate form in HLR.

The call forwarding information in HLR may be accessed also from the network side. Typically network operators provide to a group of virtual operators a controlled interface through which the virtual operators may implement a group of operations in the network. Typically these operations relate to provisioning and serve to input some subscriber information to the network databases and query information from these network databases. In the present embodiment this interface is implemented as a conventional provisioning gateway P GW accessible by the control node CTN . CTN may thus send to P GW a query CFreq UE that requests call forwarding information of a particular subscriber UE. P GW accesses the HLR information and returns a response CFresp UE comprising the requested call forwarding information to CTN.

UE generates step a call forwarding command CFcomm MSG where the conventional C number information is replaced with application information. In this example the application information is in form of a series of characters MSG that identify a functionality and message type applied in the tracking service and includes the latitude and longitude offset information applicable in the optionally identified functionality of the tracking service. UE forwards step CFcomm MSG to HLR that receives step CFcomm MSG and stores step the call forwarding information into a record CFrec UE of subscriber information of UE.

At some stage after sending CFcomm MSG UE may send step to HLR a query Q CFrec that requests information on its own call forwarding information stored in HLR. When HLR receives step the query it retrieves step the stored call forwarding information and sends step it to UE. When UE receives step the call forwarding information it may compare step the received call forwarding information with the determined location status information. If step the two pieces of information do not match. UE may decide step to end the procedure or move back to step and retry delivery of the call forwarding command to HLR. If step the two pieces of information match. UE may move forward to inform CTN on new information in HLR.

This embodiment is especially applicable to services where information needs to be delivered quickly and reliably even in environments where various data services are not available or might incur significant costs. Advantageously the notification from UE to CTN is thus made in form of a message delivery attempt i.e. by forwarding a session setup request towards an address managed by CTN. Typically voice services are prioritized over data services so in challenging communications environments or in congested radio interfaces calls are much longer available than data services and may remain available even if data services are interrupted or restricted. A call attempt is also typically free of charge so it does not incur costs to the UE notifying CTN. In the present example the notification is thus made by UE calling step a predefined address ADDRx that is in control of the control node.

The control node CTN stores a group of one or more addresses one of which is ADDRx and an application function Fx associated to it. In this example when CTN receives step the call it recognizes the address ADDRx and maps it the application function Fx retrieve call forwarding information from HLR . CTN also determines the address of the caller. CTN thus generates step a query CFreq UE that requests the defined call forwarding information here the C number from the subscriber database of UE. CTN sends step this query CFreq UE via P GW to HLR.

When HLR receives step the request it retrieves step the record CFrec UE and sends step the call forwarding information in the record via P GW to CTN When CTN receives the call forwarding information it extracts the application information and applies it in implementing the service. In this example CTN identifies that the message comprises a data message that is a heartbeat report of the tracking service and includes location information of the subscriber. This information may thus be updated to a tracking database and applied in the operations of the tracking service.

The mechanism applying destination re routing may be reversely applied also to the other direction i.e. for delivering application information from the control node CTN to the user equipment UE. For example in the configuration of CTN may include similarly application data in call forwarding information and use P GW to input the call forwarding information to the subscriber database of UE. illustrates stages of an exemplary method implemented with the command and query mechanisms and the elements presented in . The example of relates to a case where CTN delivers application information within a destination re routing information to UE. The procedure begins at a stage where all elements are switched on and operative CTN has application information MSG it needs to deliver to UE.

CTN generates step a call forwarding command CFcomm MSG where the conventional C number information is replaced with application information. In this example the application information is in form of a series of characters MSG. CTN forwards step CFcomm MSG to HLR that receives step CFcomm MSG and stores step the call forwarding information into a record CFrec UE of subscriber information of UE.

At some stage after sending CFcomm MSG CTN may send step to HLR a query Q CFrec that requests information on call forwarding information of UE stored in HLR. When HLR receives step the query it retrieves step the stored call forwarding information and sends step CFrec to CTN. When CTN receives step the call forwarding information of UE it may compare step it with the application data it intended to send to UE. If step the two pieces of information do not match CTN may decide step to end the procedure or move back to step and retry delivery of the call forwarding command to HLR. If step the two pieces of information match CTN may move forward to inform UE on new information in HLR.

Advantageously the notification from CTN to UE is also made in form of a message delivery attempt like a call setup request. Thus CTN calls step UE from ADDRy one of the addresses that are in its control.

As above UE stores a group of one or more addresses one of which is ADDRy and an application function Fy associated to it. In this example when UE receives step the call it recognizes the address ADDRy of the caller and maps it the application function Fy retrieve call forwarding information from HLR . UE thus generates step a query CFreq UE that requests its own call forwarding information and sends step it to HLR.

When HLR receives step the request CFreq UE it retrieves step the record CFrec UE and returns step the call forwarding information in the record to UE When UE receives the call forwarding information it extracts the application information and applies it in implementing the service.

The embodied solution provides a resilient and power saving mechanism to exchange information between two nodes. The solutions is specifically advantageous in situations where normal data services that apply message payload or ubiquitous dedicated signaling messages are not available or need to be avoided for some reason for example for reducing the communications costs incurred to the user equipment.

It will be obvious to a person skilled in the art that as the technology advances the inventive concept can be implemented in various ways. The invention and its embodiments are not limited to the examples described above but may vary within the scope of the claims.

