---

title: Mobile meeting and collaboration
abstract: A method for coordinating the remote participation of a client device in a meeting within a network comprising the client device and one or more nodes, the meeting involving a multimedia presentation. According to one embodiment, the method includes receiving an invitation for the client device to participate in the meeting, where a user will participate in the meeting using the client device. Temporal information for the meeting is stored. Furthermore, it is determined whether or not to notify the user of the meeting based on the stored temporal information or other information. In the event that the user should be notified, it is determined when to notify the user of the meeting based on the stored temporal information. One or more messages about the meeting are sent for the meeting. In one embodiment, the one or more messages about the meeting includes a reminder to join the meeting. In another embodiment, the one or more messages about the meeting includes an instruction which causes the client device to connect to the meeting without user action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08028073&OS=08028073&RS=08028073
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08028073
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080331
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 857 659 filed May 28 2004 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 482 513 filed Jun. 25 2003 both of which are incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to meetings and collaboration. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and apparatus for enabling client devices to schedule and participate in meetings.

Meetings typically include some kind of multimedia presentation for example a slide show presentation. Thus people who are not present at the slide show will not fully appreciate the presentation. A person not at the meeting may participate through a teleconference and manually change hard copies of the presentation media or multimedia such as slides while the presentation is being given. However the person must be given a verbal cue when the presentation media or multimedia are changed or determine on his or her own that a new slide is being displayed.

Currently a presentation being given may be displayed on a remote television or computer through a video conference. This however requires expensive video conferencing equipment and a dedicated high speed Internet connection. Also the remote location is typically another meeting room in a remote office thereby requiring users to be present in the meeting room. Thus if a user is traveling a user may not have access to the required equipment to participate in a video conference. Rather the user may only have a client device such as a cellular phone. In this case the user may participate through a tele conference and manually change physical copies of the presentation media or multimedia such as slides. However once again the user must receive cues that the slides have been changed or decide when to change the slides.

In all of the above cases the user has been a participant in the meeting and not the presenter. If the user is not present and is for example at an airport the user cannot effectively run the presentation. Once again the user may only have a client device such as a cellular phone thus the user cannot change the slides of a presentation for everyone in the meeting to see. Rather the user is restricted to participating through a tele conference while the slides of the presentation are changed by someone else. In this case the user must verbally say when slides should be changed.

In another example a user may schedule a meeting such as a tele conference. Reminders may be sent to a client device when a meeting is about to begin. However the reminders may just indicate that a meeting will start at a certain time. At the time of receiving the reminder the user may not have access to information needed to connect to the tele conference because the user may not be in his or her office etc. Thus the reminder would be useless because the user cannot connect to the meeting.

Accordingly what is desired are methods and apparatus for addressing the above drawbacks for scheduling and participating in meetings via client devices.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to the coordination and participation in meetings using a client device. A user of a client device may be automatically reminded and connected to a meeting. Further the user can automatically view presentation media or multimedia such as slides in a presentation as they are changed and run a presentation using a client device.

In one embodiment a method for enabling a client device to view one or more slides in a presentation is provided. The method comprises determining when slides for the presentation have been changed when a slide has been changed performing the steps of determining a current slide in the one or more slides being displayed and sending a message to the client device indicating that the current slide has been displayed wherein the message enables the current slide to be displayed on the client device.

In another embodiment a method for running a presentation of one or more slides from a client device is provided. The presentation is being viewed by one or more participants using one or more computing devices that are in communication with one or more display devices associated with the one or more participants. The method comprises receiving a message to display a new slide for the presentation from the client device that is remotely located from the one or more display devices determining the one or more display devices that are participating in the meeting and sending a message indicating that a new slide should be displayed to each of the one or more display devices wherein the message causes the one or more display devices to display the new slide.

In one embodiment a method for coordinating the remote participation of a client device in a media or multimedia meeting session conference within a network comprising the client device and a node is provided. The method includes receiving an invitation for the client device to participate in the meeting where a user will participate in the meeting using the client device. The meeting may be a media meeting such as a voice conference like a phone call or a voice over IP call among two or more parties. The meeting may also be a multimedia meeting. For example the meeting may be a video broadcast or session a voice or phone conference a web conference or other single or multimedia conference or meeting. As used herein the foregoing are referenced by the term media or multimedia meeting conference or call. In one embodiment the invitation includes meeting details such as how to join the meeting and or temporal information about the meeting. The invitation may also provide presentation materials in advance of the meeting. For example presentation media or multimedia such as slides that are to be presented during the meeting may be provided by the invitation before the meeting is started. The method further includes storing temporal information about the meeting and determining whether to remind the user of the meeting based on the stored temporal information or other information. In one embodiment information about where a reminder or notification message about the meeting should be sent may also be stored. This information may be stored on the same device that stores the temporal information or on a different device. Moreover this information may be provided by a user in preferences or after an invitation has been accepted. For example a user may reply with an acceptance and the reply may include the number or address of another device to which the notification or reminder should be sent. In the event that the user should be notified it is determined when to notify the user of the meeting based on the stored temporal information and a notification or reminder message about the meeting is sent.

The notification message about the meeting may enable the client device to connect to the meeting such as by inviting the client to the meeting and or causing the client to connect to the meeting. In a first embodiment the message may include an instruction which causes the client device to connect to the meeting when the client device receives the message where the client device is connected to the meeting without user action. The message may cause the client device to initiate a call for the meeting and be automatically connected to the meeting. A server i.e. conference meeting server may receive the notification message and start a call to the client which causes the client device to automatically connect to the meeting. A third party may receive the notification message and may call the client device and the meeting into a call session or a media session in a third party call control such as a session initiation protocol SIP back to back user agent B2BUA . In a second embodiment after determining when to notify the user of the meeting the message may include a reminder that is sent or displayed for interaction. For example the reminder to join the meeting is sent to the user by an application or service i.e. operating system of the client device. Reminders may also be sent by a server peer device and or third party.

In the context of a session initiation protocol SIP method invitation in one embodiment the instruction may notify the client about how to join the meeting e.g. where it can send a SIP invitation . Moreover the instruction may also be sent as a notification about the meeting to the conference media server which then sends the SIP invite to the client. In another embodiment the instruction notifies a third party system about how to join the client and the meeting e.g. third party call and or media session control between the client and a meeting and or a media server . The third party may initiate a third party call or media session in a third party call control mode. For example in SIP the third party may act as a B2BUA

It should be appreciated that communications among nodes in the network are accomplished without a specific communication or messaging channel restriction or assumption. In one embodiment a node in the network calls the client device to join the meeting. The meeting may involve a media or multimedia presentation voice over internet protocol voIP web conference as media video conference and the like. In another embodiment the node on the network asks the client device to join the meeting. For example the client device can itself call or join the meeting and or access the presentation.

Embodiments may also be included on computer readable media. A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of the embodiments disclosed herein may be realized by reference of the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

Embodiments described herein allow a user to use a client device to coordinate and set up meetings. The client device is sent a reminder for a meeting that may automatically connect the client device to the meeting or include a link that upon selection will automatically connect the user to the meeting. Also the user of a client device may participate in a meeting where a presentation is being given. The presentation media or multimedia such as slides of a presentation are automatically changed on the client device as they are changed in the presentation being given. Additionally a user giving a presentation may use the client device to cause presentation slides to be changed automatically on other devices.

Client devices are any devices that can receive communications from communicator . Examples include cellular phones personal assistants PDAs personal computers pagers etc.

Server and computing devices are included to represent a computer network such as a corporate network. Server receives messages from communicator and propagates them to computing devices .

Other devices may be any computing devices another presentation driver device in another office a television a display screen or any other device configured to display slides from presentation .

Presentation driver device is any device that is used to display a presentation on a display device. For example presentation driver device is a computing device that includes or can retrieve presentation media or multimedia such as slides from presentation . For example a personal computer that has a slide show presentation stored locally may be used. Presentation is typically an electronic document that includes one or more pages or slides. Presentation driver device display pages for presentation on a television screen computer etc.

When a slide should be changed a user sends a command to presentation driver device . For example when a user desires to display the next slide in presentation the user may select a key on an input device of presentation driver device such as a keyboard or mouse. Presentation driver device would then display the next slide on the display.

In one embodiment client devices are devices that are not directly connected to presentation driver device . For example presentation driver device may be a laptop that includes software to display a slide on a screen. Also software may be used to display the slide on a screen remotely as in a teleconference. These examples require specialized presentation software that is configured to display presentation media or multimedia such as slides from presentations. Client devices may not be configured to directly interact with presentation driver device . For example the communication channel that client devices communicate in may not allow for slides as formatted e.g. a Microsoft Powerpoint format in presentation driver device to be sent. Client devices may communicate using any appropriate messages such as SMS or MMS and thus messages in SMS or pictures of slides in MMS may need to be sent. In another embodiment when not mobile SIP SIMPLE or email may be used.

Accordingly as will be described below communicator may send a message that the slide has been changed or it may send a message that includes an image of the current slide being displayed. When a new slide is displayed presentation driver device sends a message to communicator indicating that a new slide has been displayed. In another embodiment communicator may periodically monitor the status of presentation and determine when a change in presentation has occurred. When a new slide has been displayed communicator sends messages to client devices server and other devices to notify them of the slide change. If a message that the slide has been changed is sent the message may cause the receiving device to automatically retrieve and display the currently displayed slide. If an image of the slide is sent the message may cause the receiving device to automatically display the received slide.

In one embodiment a user uses a client device to view slides in a presentation being given by another and also uses client device to give a presentation. illustrates the embodiment where users view slides in a presentation using client devices. In one embodiment a client device includes a copy or can retrieve a copy of the slides of presentation and a client device cannot access any slides of presentation .

As shown presentation driver device receives input to change a page of presentation . For example a next page key may be pressed on a computer. Presentation driver device then sends a current slide to a display for display. When a new page has been accessed in presentation a message is sent to communicator . In another embodiment communicator may monitor presentation driver device and determine when a new page has been displayed. Communicator is then configured to determine the current slide being displayed and send a message to client devices and that indicates which slide is being displayed. Also client devices may query communicator for the slide to display. The messaging may be different between client devices depending on if the client device does or does not have access to slides in presentation .

In the case where the client device can retrieve slides in presentation communicator sends a message that causes client device to display current slide on a display . The message may be sent using any communication means that can be used to contact device such as short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS email wireless application protocol WAP Push General Packet Radio System GPRS Push etc.

As shown client device includes a database that stores presentation . Although database is shown in client device database may be located remotely from client device . In this case client device may retrieve pages in presentation from the remotely located database . For example presentation may be located on a server and client device can request a web page that would include current slide .

Processor is configured to display the next slide in presentation on a display in response to the message. For example the message may indicate that a new slide has been displayed. In another embodiment the message may identify the slide that is currently being displayed. Processor will then retrieve that slide from database . For example a page or slide number may be sent to client device and that page will be retrieved and displayed. Accordingly a presentation may display slides out of order and client device can still display the right slide. In either case the message will cause client device to automatically display the currently displayed slide in the presentation upon receiving the message. In another embodiment a button or link may be automatically displayed where the new slide is displayed when the button is selected.

In the case where client device cannot retrieve slides in presentation communicator sends a message with current slide . The message may be sent using MMS or any other methods that may send the page to client device . Also a remote server containing a copy of presentation may be used to send current slide to client device instead of communicator . In this case communicator sends a message to the server and the server sends current slide to client device . For example client device may download web pages that display current slide .

In one embodiment the slide may be adapted to characteristics associated with different client devices. For example the slide may have been designed using hypertext markup language HTML or a Microsoft Powerpoint format but client device may only be able to display text pages. Communicator can convert the slide to text and send the text page for display by client device . In another example SMS messages may be the only way to reach client device . The HTML page may then be converted into text and sent in SMS messages to client device . Thus the page may be sent through different communications methods and or adapted to different display requirements.

In one embodiment the messaging between communicator and client device is messaging that requires a low bandwidth. For example SMS and MMS messages may be sent quickly through networks and are widely supported by many devices. However in order to view a direct video link to a presentation expensive and bulky equipment is often needed. Also a high bandwidth connection is needed.

Once client device receives current slide the message causes processor to automatically display current slide on a display . In another embodiment client device may forward the slide to a fax machine or printer so the page can be faxed or printed. The slide may then be viewed in the hard copy form from the copy generated by the fax machine or printer.

In one embodiment communicator may not be able to send a message with current slide to client device . In this embodiment a message with a link such as a uniform resource locator URL may be sent to client device . The link may be used to download a web page that displays current slide . The web page may include options that allow the user to choose a format to adapt current slide to the specifications of client device . Client device may also send this URL to other devices allowing other users to view slides in presentation .

In another embodiment communicator may cause another device that includes presentation to send current slide to client device . For example upon receiving a message that a new slide has been displayed client device sends the new slide from its database to client device .

In another embodiment client device and client device may not receive messages initiated by communicator rather client device and may monitor communicator to determine if a page in presentation has been changed. For example client devices and may check periodically e.g. every couple of seconds to determine if a page has been changed. If a page has changed client device may determine which page is currently being displayed or client device may retrieve the currently displayed page from communicator .

In another embodiment client device or may need to know the current slide being displayed. For example a client user may be late for the meeting and instead of interrupting the meeting by asking what page is being displayed the user uses client device or to query communicator for the currently displayed page. In this case communicator will either send a message to client device indicating which slide is being displayed or send current slide to client device .

In step communicator determines if a slide has changed. If a new slide has not been displayed communicator continues to monitor for slide changes in step .

If a new slide has been displayed in step communicator determines devices that are participating in the presentation. For example client devices personal computers televisions etc. may need to display the new slide. In order to determine the devices communicator may require that devices have previously registered for participation in the meeting. In registering the devices may configure the communication methods in which communicator will send messages. For example client devices may be sent messages through SMS and MMS televisions multimedia streaming broadcasts may be sent messages through a video link etc.

In step after determining the devices that need the slide communicator determines if the devices can access slides of presentation . If the devices cannot access the slides in step communicator sends a message indicating that a slide has changed to the devices. The message may specify a slide e.g. a slide number that should be displayed. Also the message may just indicate that a slide has changed and the devices will determine which slide to display e.g. the next slide .

In step the devices determine the current slide being displayed using the message. In step current slide is displayed on the devices. In one embodiment current slide is automatically displayed without any input from a user of the device. The method then reiterates to step where communicator monitors for the next slide change.

In the case where the devices do not have access to slides of presentation in step communicator sends a message including the newly displayed slide to the devices. Instead of including the slide a link to current slide that may be used to download the slide may also be sent. In either case current slide is sent to the devices.

In step current slide is displayed on the devices. In one embodiment current slide is automatically displayed without any input from a user of the device. The method then reiterates to step where communicator monitors for the next slide change.

In addition to participating in a presentation being given a user may use a client device to give a presentation. depicts an embodiment of a system that enables a client device to run a presentation. As shown client device runs a presentation through communicator . In one embodiment client device determines when a new slide of presentation has been displayed on a display of client devices . When a slide has been changed client device sends a message indicating that a slide has been changed to communicator . The message may indicate which slide is being displayed or may indicate that a slide has been changed. Although client device is shown as displaying current slide it will be understood that client device does not have to display current slide . For example a person may be giving a presentation and when slides in presentation are changed the person selects a key on client device or uses any other methods to indicate that a slide has been changed.

After receiving a message that a slide has been changed communicator sends messages to devices that are participating in the presentation. The devices may be display devices computing devices servers connected to a network of computing devices other client devices etc. Communicator then determines the current slide that is being displayed using the received message and retrieves the slide from a database . Although communicator is shown including database it will be understood that database may be remotely located but accessible by communicator .

Once current slide is determined communicator may send it to devices for display. Alternatively communicator may send a message to a device that includes slides from presentation . Device may then access the current slide from a database and display it. In one embodiment when a slide is changed by client device current slide is displayed on devices and without any input from a user. Thus participants may view slides in a presentation without manually changing them allowing a user of a client device to run a presentation remotely. For example a user may be at an airport and other participants may be in a meeting room. The user can talk through client device and also use client device to automatically change slides on a television in the meeting room. In another embodiment the user can set preferences send receive invitations and send receive answers to invitations using the client device . User set preferences may include where to be invited or notified reminded of the meeting what devices or addresses to use how any media or multimedia presentation materials should be adapted and the like.

Accordingly embodiments allow a user to participate in a meeting using a client device. The pages displayed on the client device may be synchronized with page changes as new pages are being displayed in the presentation. A user thus does not have to manually change pages or receive verbal notifications that the page has been changed. Additionally a video conference link is not necessary. It will be recognized that messages may be sent in a streaming media form.

Also a user may give a presentation using a client device. The client device determines when a page has been changed and automatically sends a message that causes the new page to be displayed on other devices participating in the presentation.

In addition to being able to participate and run a presentation a user may set up a meeting and or be reminded of a meeting using a client device. When the user of a client device is notified of a meeting the client device is provided methods for automatically connecting to the meeting. depicts a flow chart of a method for automatically connecting to a meeting using a client device within a network comprising the client device and a node according to one embodiment. Nodes may include a server a peer device and or a third party. In one embodiment the communication between the client device and node s is performed without any specific communication or messaging channel restrictions or assumptions.

In step specifications for a meeting are received. For example a user may specify the desired participants in the meeting a meeting time a type of meeting tele conference video conference presentation etc. rooms to reserve what kind of devices will be connected to the meeting what the device capabilities are and their preferences etc. In one embodiment rooms that may be reserved are sessions or conference identifiers and connection details i.e. addresses passwords etc. for the meeting. Examples of device capabilities may include how the device will participate in the meeting such as using SMS MMS email a voice call a video conference a web call a presentation etc.

In one embodiment the client device may be configured to access standard meeting software such as conference call notification by Lotus Notes conference call setup by Raindance Idem for on line meetings free busy services for Microsoft Outlook freetime scheduling for Oracle calendar Meeting for Oracle Collaboration Suite OCS and the like. The client device sends messages to a node to schedule a meeting. In one embodiment the node is a central coordinator such as communicator to schedule the meeting. The messages may be SMS messages emails MMS messages voice messages fax messages SIP SIMPLE etc. Communicator is configured to interpret the messages and schedule the meeting using the appropriate software. For example an SMS message may request that a meeting be scheduled using Lotus Notes at a certain time for people named Rob Smith and Jack Johnson. The node may then access the software or component that is used for calendaring or communicating for the user of the client device and attempt to schedule the meeting at the specified time for the users Rob Smith and Jack Johnson.

In one embodiment a client device may issue an invitation by contacting a node with a request for a meeting. Also the client device may initiate a meeting request by entering the meeting into his her client device s calendar. Then the client device may automatically send the invitation to participate in a meeting to the node which will send the invitations to other devices.

In step multimedia media session invitations are sent to various client devices and other devices associated with users that will be participating in the meeting. In one embodiment the invitations are received by the various client devices. In other embodiments the invitations are received by a user on the client device or another node associated with the user. The invitation to participate in the meeting may be received at the time of the meeting or before the meeting. In one embodiment where the invitation to participate is sent before the meeting a reminder mechanism is implemented such as to trigger the next steps required. Invitations may be sent through email SMS MMS voicemail voice calls fax messages SIP SIMPLE etc. The invitations may describe the meeting details such as one or more destination nodes to be invited to join the meeting. The destination nodes may be identified by an address such as a uniform resource identifier URI a phone number and the like. Meeting details of the invitation may also include information such as how to join the meeting and also offer options to accept or reject the invitation. For example a form may be provided with a question that requires a user to accept or reject the invitation for the meeting. Additionally the form may give details about the meeting such as which device s to invite a phone number to call in case the device is disconnected the time of the meeting the address of the media server to join for voice and or media conferencing and or streaming etc. Furthermore the invitation may include the materials needed for the meeting such as presentation media or multimedia or a URI to access the presentation or other ways to access the presentation ahead of the meeting. In one embodiment the presentation media or multimedia includes slides or handouts for the presentation. The invitations may also be adapted to requirements for the client device. For example a voice message may be sent if SMS messages cannot be received by a client device the form may be in HTML text or any other format the specific device can display etc. In another embodiment the materials needed for the meeting may be adapted for other devices such that if the user wants to have another device join the meeting the user may also want to communicate the device type of the other devices and the slides or other media presentation materials e.g. video are prepared based on the specified device type.

In step acceptances and rejections are received. In one embodiment a client device user may accept the invitation by using a browser to download a webpage that enables the user to accept the invitation. Also the client device may be used to accept the invitation via voice interaction using voice recognition or by using text messaging SMS MMS email instant message etc. . As previously described the invitation may be stored elsewhere than on the client device. As such the acceptances or rejections may be provided by another peer device server or the media conference server. In one embodiment the user accepts and may suggest to connect later to one or multiple clients where the client device can be the same or different from the device that the user uses. It should be noted that the user can set the foregoing as preferences. The acceptance or rejection is send to a node. In a preferred embodiment a reminder or notification is scheduled as a result of receiving the user s response i.e. acceptance . The scheduling may occur on some other node or on a same node. In another embodiment the reminder or notification is scheduled when the invitation is sent.

In step the acceptances may be reflected on a scheduler such as the calendars of all participants and are stored. The synchronization of the calendars may be updated on any devices using over the air OTA vCal or iCal syncML synchronization e.g. via Outlook replications e.g. via Lotus Notes or any other methods needed to perform the update. In an alternative embodiment the scheduler may be stored on any entity such as a server user device or any other entity. Moreover the scheduler may be stored in a calendar for the meeting or conference server.

In step a node determines if it is time to notify a user of a meeting. The notification may come before the meeting when the meeting is about to start or even after the meeting if the user has not connected to the meeting yet. It is determined whether the user should be notified about the meeting. Where the user has already connected to the meeting or the invitation was rejected a user may not need to be notified of the meeting. As such the node e.g. application or operating system of client device server third party which is responsible for notifying the user may be informed that the invitation was rejected.

In a first embodiment in step if it is time to notify a user of a meeting a message about the meeting is sent whereby the message enables or causes the client device to connect to the meeting. In one embodiment the message about the meeting includes an instruction that causes the client device to connect to the meeting. The connection may occur automatically that is without any user action. The client device is automatically connected to a meeting in step in many ways.

In one embodiment when the client device receives the message about the meeting the message automatically connects the client device to the meeting and the instruction causes the client to start the call to join the meeting. For example the message may cause the client device to call a number to connect to a tele conference. The instruction may tell the client how to join the conference. For example in the context of a session initiation protocol SIP method invite the instruction may include information about where to send the SIP method invite. In another embodiment the message about the meeting may include a session initiation protocol SIP method invite. Also the message may automatically display a slide in a presentation that is being given. For example the message or a sequence of messages may include instructions which cause a local copy of the presentation saved on the client device to start or the message may include an image of a current slide in the presentation or information as to where to download an adapted version of the presentation. As previously discussed the local copy of the presentation may have been previously downloaded or sent with the invitation. In one embodiment if the presentation has been updated since being sent out an intermediate notification may be sent in order to synchronize the changes. Moreover the one or more messages may cause the client device to initiate a call to join the meeting for example the message may automatically connect the client device to any on line meetings such as an instant message session with a user a chat a multimedia presentation a video conference and the like based on the information of how to connect to the meeting. The meeting may include a multimedia presentation i.e. video web conference etc. multimedia session and or a voice over IP VoIP call.

In another embodiment the client device is automatically connected to the meeting where the message about the meeting is sent to a peer device and or server i.e. conference server media server etc. and the message includes an instruction that causes the same peer server or another peer server to start the call for the meeting. The instruction may tell the peer server how to join the client to the meeting if not previously provided in the initial invitation and stored. For example in the context of a SIP method invite the instruction may include information about where to send the SIP method invite for example if the client address is different.

In another embodiment the client device is automatically connected to the meeting where the message about the meeting is sent to a third party and the message includes an instruction that causes the third party to start the call and join the server and client to the meeting. In one embodiment details about how to join the client and server to the meeting e.g. via a third party call control or media session control between the client and a conference media server may be provided if not previously provided in the initial invitation and stored. In the context of a SIP method invite a third party may establish a 3Party SIP call control e.g. as a B2BUA . For example the third party calls the client device e.g. by sending a message about the meeting to put in a call with the server or a peer device. In another embodiment the third party may instruct another node to invite in a third party call control. Thus the client device may be automatically joined to the meeting by being called by the server peer device or a third party. In another embodiment the third party may tell the client and or conferencing media server how to join a session.

If it is time to notify a user of a meeting in step in a second embodiment a node sends a reminder to join the meeting to one or more client devices and or other devices for the meeting. The reminder may be sent by and or received by an application or operating system of the client device server peer device and or third party. The reminder message may display a link or button that may cause the client device to automatically connect to the meeting when selected such as when a user manually clicks on the button. In one embodiment this manual action also serves as a confirmation of acceptance. The link may include a uniform resource identifier URI an address a protocol an interface or an application programming interface API with argument. In one embodiment the initial invitation provided details on how to join the meeting i.e. address meeting identifier credentials required etc. and or provided the presentation materials which was stored by the client device. The reminder may remind the user to join the meeting or to start the stored presentation. In another embodiment the reminder provides the details on how to join the meeting and or the presentation materials for the meeting. The reminder may also be adapted to the requirements of the client device.

In the case where a link is sent in step the link is received and displayed on the client device. In one embodiment the link may be a selectable button that is configured to connect to the meeting when selected. In other embodiments the link includes meeting details such as the call number password meeting title participants universal resource identifiers URIs etc. Although this information is given the link will still automatically connect the client device to the meeting when selected.

In step upon selection of the link the client device is automatically connected to the meeting. For example when a link is selected a telephone number is dialed to join a telephone conference or the client device may be connected to an online meeting using instant messaging an online presentation a multimedia presentation a video conference an online chat etc.

If a link does not work or if the user fails to show in one embodiment the client device or user may be contacted on a same or different device or communication channel to give the user information to connect to the meeting files for the presentation or start streaming multimedia information to the client device. In one embodiment the client device or user is contacted based on preference a profile or presence among other considerations.

In another embodiment the user can contact a node. For example messaging can be used to indicate new instructions such as an address or telephone number and instructions on what to do in order to contact the user for example information on where to send fax or print the presentation information on where to call for the meeting etc. In one embodiment a user can contact an address or node through email phone interactive voice response IVR SMS IM etc. in order to make a request to have an invitation reminder or notification sent or resent to an address.

Node C which includes the scheduler determines if it is time to notify users of the meeting. In one embodiment if the meeting is not accepted by the user the meeting is not reflected on the scheduler and the scheduler does not notify the user of the meeting. If it is time to notify the user a message about the meeting is sent from Node C to Node D. Node D may be the same device server or third party as Node B and or C. For example a user may send the response to a meeting server and the meeting server receives the response Node B function reflects an acceptance on its own scheduler Node C function and sends a notification about the meeting from the scheduler component of the meeting server to another component of the meeting server. In this example Nodes B C and D are all parts of the meeting server. In another embodiment Nodes B C and D are all different devices or servers or third parties. For example Node B may be a meeting server Node C may be another server and Node D may be the client device.

The message about the meeting sent to Node D may be either a notification message or a reminder message. The notification message includes an instruction which causes the client device to automatically connect to the meeting without user action. As shown in FIG. there are three embodiments relating to notification messages. The notification message causes Node to automatically connect to Node E. In a first embodiment Node D is a client device which receives the notification message about the meeting. The instruction in the notification causes the client device to call into the meeting to Node E without user interaction. For example receives the notification message and is connected with Node E which is the meeting server. In a second embodiment Node D is a server which receives the notification message about the meeting. The instruction may cause the server Node D to start the call for the meeting and placing a call to the client device Node E and or another other device. In a third embodiment Node D is a third party which receives the notification message about the meeting. The instruction may cause the third party Node D to start the call for the meeting and join the client device Node E and meeting server Node E to the meeting through a third party call control or media session control.

The message about the meeting may be a reminder message. The user is connected to the meeting via the reminder message by user action. The reminder message may display a link or button that may cause the client device to automatically connect to the meeting when selected such as when a user manually clicks on the button. The reminder message requires user action to connect the user to the meeting in other ways. For example the reminder message may include information that the user may use to connect to the meeting such as a number to dial on a phone meeting. As shown in as a fourth embodiment Node D is a client which receives a reminder message. Upon user action the client is joined with the meeting. For example the client device Node D receives the reminder and a user may click on a link to connect with the meeting server Node E .

Accordingly embodiments allow a user of a client device to be automatically connected to a meeting. Thus a user does not need to know the specifics of how to connect to the meeting because either a message causes the client device to connect to the meeting automatically or a link is provided that causes the client device to connect to the meeting upon selection. This may be very useful when a user is traveling and does not have access to information about the meeting. Thus a user may be reminded about the meeting and also be automatically connected to the meeting using the reminder.

In one embodiment instant messaging may also be used. For example a chat or instant message system may be used between the client device and nodes. Instant messages may include invitations to participate in the meeting notifications that a page has been changed in the meeting notifications that a meeting is about to start notifications that may be used to automatically connect to the meeting etc. Instant message clients may also be used to send presentation media or multimedia such as slides of presentations to client devices.

Embodiments provide many advantages. For example client devices may participate in a presentation by having the presentation media or multimedia such as slides automatically displayed. Typically a high bandwidth connection is needed for devices such as laptops to link to a presentation driver device. However using a node messages in other channels such as SMS and MMS are used to cause a client device to display the presentation media or multimedia such as slides in a presentation. Thus a client device that normally is not configured to directly interact with a presentation driver device can participate and display the presentation media or multimedia such as slides in a presentation.

While the embodiments have been described using a particular combination of hardware and software implemented in the form of control logic it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. The present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The above description is illustrative but not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

