---

title: Selective communication of messages
abstract: A message originator may generate messaging data for selective communication by a messaging provider via an interface generated by a browser software application. The user may also interact with various content providers such that event data is generated based on the user interaction with each content provider. The messaging provider can then obtain the messaging data and the event data to determine a target set of messages to be published. Additionally, the messaging provider can select a set of message recipients to receive, or otherwise access, the target set of messages based on filtering criteria submitted by the message originator, content provider, service provider, and/or message recipients. Credit may be allocated based on activity associated with the communicated messages. The messaging provider may also facilitate additional interaction between the message originator and the message recipients including the initiation of additional communication channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055017&OS=09055017&RS=09055017
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09055017
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080828
---
Generally described computing devices and communication networks can be utilized to facilitate interaction between users. Specifically users can utilize various computing devices such as personal computing devices mobile phones and the like to generate content that is transmitted and received by other users. In one aspect content generated by a user can be generally published to a large set of potential users or even the public at large. For example a user may publish content via a network resource such as a web site web log blog etc. that may not be directed to any particular user and that may be accessed by a large group of users via computing devices. In another aspect content generated by a user can be directed to a specific user or specific set of users. For example a user may publish content by utilizing an electronic messaging software application in which the recipients of the content can be specifically selected by the user to receive the published content in the form of an electronic mail message.

As software applications and computing devices evolve a spectrum of social expectations for the type of user interaction for different forms of communication has also evolved. At one end of the communication spectrum computing device users may engage in substantially synchronous communication methodologies in which participants are expected to be available to communicate and actively participate in the exchange of content. For example users utilizing instant messaging software applications typically expect all of the participants in a chat session to be actively engaged in the exchange of content. The unavailability of a user and or inactivity by a user can often lead to a termination of the chat session. At the other end of the communication spectrum computing device users may engage in substantially asynchronous communication methods in which neither participant is expected to be available to communicate at any particular time and in which the exchange of content can occur at the convenience of either user. For example users utilizing electronic mail software applications have at least some expectation that a response to a sent message will occur at the convenience of the recipient.

In between the above ends of the communication spectrum computing device users may utilize a semi synchronous communication method in which participants are not necessarily expected to provide instantaneous responses to content but in which a response is expected within a period of time. For example users utilizing a messaging based network resource such as a messaging web site may publish short strings of content e.g. messages for other users to access. In such a messaging based network resource the published messages may expire after a short period of time the messages may be replaced by newer more recently published messages and or users may specify a limited amount of time in which a response is expected. However users typically expect some delay in receiving a response based on the availability and or interest of the recipient.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure relate to the exchange of content via a communication network. More specifically the present disclosure relates to the selective communication of messages associated with identified users generally referred to as message originators. In one aspect the messages associated with message originators may be generated by the message originators for the purposes of publication to a set of recipients generally referred to as message recipients. In another aspect the messages associated with message originators may be generated on behalf of the message originators for publication to the message recipients. The subject matter of the published messages can correspond to activities or events related to one or more network resources such as a content provider network resource e.g. a content provider web site . The messages may be selectively communicated or published to the message recipients by a messaging provider component by an associated content provider or by additional third parties. The selective communication can include the selective transmission of messages to the message recipients e.g. electronic mail and or the controlled access of the messages via a network resource e.g. a web site .

In one aspect the publication of messages associated with a message originator may be utilized to provide information to the message recipients. The message recipients may be determined based on filtering rules associated with the message originator the content provider or the messaging provider component that define which message recipients may receive the published messages. The message recipients may also be determined based on filtering rules associated with the message recipients that define which messages the message recipient is willing to receive and or which messages the message recipient is entitled to receive. The publication of the messages associated with the message originator may be contemporaneous with the creation of the message by the message originator or the interaction of the message originator with the content provider s .

In another aspect the publication of messages associated with a message originator may also be utilized to elicit additional actions by the message recipients by including additional information about the message originator content providers s and message recipient s selectable controls to elicit additional actions by the message recipients and the like. Still further the publication of messages associated with a message originator may be utilized to elicit additional interaction between the message originator and the message recipients in the form of additional published messages and or the initiation of additional communication between the message originator and the message recipient via additional communication channels.

By way of illustrative example a message originator e.g. a user at a client computing device may create messages such as text based messages that relate to the message originator s interaction with a content provider such as a merchant. For example the message originator may enter text or select images via an interface provided by the content provider or by an interface integrated with a software application such as browser software application. The messages may identify recent interactions between the message originator and the content provider. The messages may also identify the message originator s viewpoints about certain items such as products or services offered by the content provider. Sample message originator messages could include I recently purchased an electronic book reader from Store A and it is a great device or I have used the Brand X toaster oven for 6 months and don t believe that it is worth the extra money or I can t seem to understand Author X s point in Chapter 7. In accordance with the above illustrative examples the messages generated by the message originator are processed by a messaging provider component and selectively communicated or published to the message recipients. The publication of the messages may be contemporaneous with the generation of the messaging data by the message originator to elicit a real time or semi real time effect.

For purposes of illustration access to the published messages will be determined according to two aspects. In a first aspect a set of potential message recipients is first filtered according to a message originator s social graph or other organizational hierarchy as specified in the message filtering rules maintained by the messaging provider component. For example the message recipients will be limited to individuals accounts designated by the message originator as friends and family according to the message originator s social graph e.g. contacts maintained in a user profile . In a second aspect to further filter the message recipients that can receive or otherwise access the published messages the potential message recipients e.g. designated as friends and family of the message originator subscribe to receive any message from the message originator and or messages related to the specific subject matter of a message e.g. electronic book readers .

To selectively communicate the messages to the filtered set of message recipients the messages may be integrated as part of content generated by the content provider such as via a customized network resource e.g. a customized web page that includes a component for contemporaneously displaying published messages. The messages may also be published as part of a network resource dedicated to the publication of messages e.g. a messaging web page . Thus users can share their experiences opinions related to the content provider via the contemporaneous publishing of messages created by the message originators.

In another illustrative example messages may be created on behalf of a message originator based on the interaction between the message originator and a single content provider. Unlike the previous example in which the identified message originator specifically generated edited the messages to be published in this illustrative example the content provider or the messaging provider component generates messages to be published based on various interactions of the message originator. Specifically the messages are based on processing the message originator s activities with the content provider a service provider or the messaging provider component. Such activity is processed by the content provider service provider or messaging provider component and is generally referred to as event data.

In one illustrative example the event data may relate specifically to items purchased or browsed by the message originator while accessing a network resource. Accordingly in this illustrative example the message generated from this type of event data would be Bill recently purchased the XYZ digital camera from Store A. In another illustrative example the event data may also relate to content accessed by the message originator via the content provider. For example a message may be generated that indicates which keywords the message originator has submitted to a content provider search engine. Accordingly in this illustrative example the message generated from this type of event data would be Cindy has just searched for Store A at www.searchengine.com. 

Still further in another illustrative embodiment the event data may relate to information associated with the message originator that is generated by or otherwise provided by the content provider. For example the event data may relate to items that were recommended to the message originator by a recommendation engine provided by the content provider or a recommendation service utilized by the content provider. Accordingly in this illustrative example the message generated from this type of event data would be Maria was just recommended a cordless drill based on her purchase of hardware supplies from Joe s Hardware Store. In yet another illustrative example the event data may relate to information related to the message originator and provided by a service provider such as a web service. For example the event data may relate to information generated by a service provider e.g. a web service in which an image submitted by the message originator is processed by the service provider to enhance the data and store the enhanced data in a memory account on behalf of the user. The enhanced data can then be used by the messaging provider component to generate a message on behalf of the message originator. Accordingly in this illustrative example if the image submitted by the message originator to an enhancement service was of a restaurant menu from The Caf Restaurant the message generated from this type of event data would be Ava just asked us to recommend The Caf Restaurant. 

As previously described in the above example the generated messages may be published as part of content generated by the content provider to the message recipients in the form of a customized network resource e.g. a customized web page . The message may also be published as part of a network resource dedicated to publish messages e.g. a messaging web page . The publication of the messages may also be contemporaneous in nature with the processing of the event data.

In another illustrative example the event data may relate to information associated with the message originator that is generated or otherwise provided by a plurality of content providers. In this embodiment the event data can correspond to any message originator activity with an identifiable network resource. Examples of the types of interactions and resulting messages were previously discussed above.

In this embodiment the generated messages from all of the content providers are selectively communicated as part of a network resource dedicated to publish messages e.g. a messaging web page . The publication of the messages may also be contemporaneous in nature with the processing of the event data. The messaging provider component may process the various messages to organize the publication of the message such as by organizing the messages according to content provider subject matter time of day and the like. Accordingly in this embodiment the network resource dedicated to publish messages functions as a clearinghouse of event data.

In all of the above examples the messaging provider component may include additional enhancements features to the content to be displayed as the message e.g. content which is generated by the message originator or on behalf of the message originator . For example the messages may be enhanced with additional information from a user profile associated with the message originator or the message recipients such as including stored characteristics or descriptive information about the message originator and or message recipient. Additionally the messages may be enhanced with historical activity of the originator and or message recipient. For example the content to be displayed as a message may be supplemented with additional text that identifies the message originator s last three purchases e.g. Billy also purchased the following tracks last week ABC MusicTitle and Don t Go Away. . In another example the messages may be enhanced with actionable controls such as hyperlinks or other controls that direct the message recipient to a network resource provided by the content provider e.g. a web site . The network resource may provide additional information regarding the subject matter of the message or facilitate the browsing purchasing of items highlighted in the message such as with a selectable control to add an item to an electronic shopping cart.

Still further to provide additional incentive to generate messages and or allow messages to be generated on the message originator s behalf the messaging provider component and or content provider may provide some form of credit for allowing messages to be published and or for additional message recipient activity with the content provider that can be attributed to the messages. The credit may be in the form of redeemable points organizational or hierarchical credits e.g. a gold level member qualification accreditation credits compensation and the like. In an illustrative embodiment the credit is specified as a function of the elicited activity e.g. browsing specific network resources purchasing items providing information etc. . With reference to a compensation example credits for elicited activities can include but are not limited to fee schedules for elicited activities percentage of sales auction bidding etc. As applied to the previously discussed illustrative example a hyperlink may be included in the published message for any identifiable item e.g. a product or service in the message content. Selection of any of the hyperlinks will result the allocation of a credit by the messaging provider component.

With continued reference to the above example some portion of the credit for the elicited activity may be provided to the message originator. For example a message originator may have enrolled in a credit allocation program with a content provider. Additionally some portion of the credit for the elicited activity may be provided to the content provider for providing event data that resulted in the generated message. Still further some portion of the credit for the elicited activity may be provided to a content provider in which the messages are published selectively communicated. For example a content provider may receive from a different content provider a percentage of all transactions attributable to messages generated from event data provided that content provider or from messages published by the content provider via a hosted network resource. Even further the message provider component or content provider can allocate credit among multiple parties in various percentages sharing allocations.

As previously described the messaging provider component can utilize filtering rules to determine which potential message recipients receive or otherwise can access the published messages. In one aspect the message originator content provider and or messaging component provider may specify which potential message recipients may have access to some or all of the messages generated by the message originator or on behalf of the message originator. By way of illustrative example the message provider component may utilize a social graph e.g. a definition of contacts based on an organizational hierarchy associated with the message originator to define a finite set of message recipients that may have access to messages published by the message originator. In this example the messaging provider component can utilize a specific user s contact information and organizational hierarchies to determine a set of message recipients that may be eligible to receive access published messages. In another example the message provider component may utilize a social graph associated with the content provider or the message provider component to define the set of message recipients that have access to the published messages. In an illustrative example the content provider s customer base can be used to determine message recipients eligible to receive access published messages.

As previously described in another aspect message recipients may specify which published messages they are willing to receive. In an illustrative example a potential message recipient may subscribe to receive published messages related to particular filtering criteria such as message subject matter category message keywords message originator profile information and the like. Based on the subscription the message recipient would have access to all such published messages. Such access may be regardless of any filtering criteria provided by the message originator e.g. filtering criteria based on the message originator s social graph . For example a particular user may wish to access messages related to electronic booker readers that were published by message originators in a particular geographic region such as a city. In this example the message recipient would subscribe to either an electronic book reader subject matter category or submit specific makes models keywords of interest and would then be able to access messages satisfying the subscription criteria. In another example another particular user may wish to access messages corresponding to specific questions submitted by message originators that were related to a particular movie or book. In this example the message recipient would subscribe to the particular book or movie e.g. subscribe to messages about War and Peace Chapter 7 of Electronic Principles or the car chase scene found in the Italian Job movie particular keywords associated with the particular movie or book that would found in the published messages e.g. semiconductor wafer polishing or Seattle subject matter categories or other specific search criteria. Based on the subscription criteria the message recipient would then be able to access messages satisfying the subscription criteria. Accordingly the message recipient can control the type of messages that are presented by the messaging provider component. The messaging provider component can also define additional criteria such as individual qualifications or credentials that a potential message recipient would have to satisfy in order to receive access published messages. For example a potential message recipient may have to have passed a specific certification test in order to receive published messages related to a request for technical assistance.

In still a further illustrative example one or more message recipients may specifically correspond to content providers or service providers. In this example the message recipient may subscribe to receive published messages based on search criteria entered by message originators and matching product service or company names. The message recipient may also subscribe to receive published messages based on browsing activity in which a specific item e.g. a product or service is browsed by the message originator. In still another example a message recipient corresponding to a service representative may subscribe to receive published messages associated with a help control integrated into a browser software application that allows the message originator to automatically request assistance with whatever network resource is currently being displayed in the browser software application. In these examples the social graph of the message originator would not be utilized to filter the set of potential message recipients because potentially appropriate message recipients such as a service technician would not likely be included in the message originator s social graph unless by coincidence or based on previous service calls . Based on the message recipient subscription the message recipient receives or accesses the published messages and can then initiate additional interaction with original message originators. The additional interaction can include publishing additional messages with information back to the original message originator. The additional interaction can also include the inclusion of selectable controls in the returned message such as a click to call button or an embedded hyperlink that would initiate or otherwise facilitate interaction over additional communication channels.

Although aspects of the present disclosure will be described with regard to an illustrative message publication environment and component interactions communication protocols flow diagrams and screen renderings one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the disclosed embodiments are illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting. Additionally activities actions and or processes may be attributed in the present disclosure to the message originators message recipients content providers or service providers as personally implemented as individuals or indirectly implemented as users of a computing device. Still further although a number of illustrative examples will be discussed with regard to the present disclosure such examples should not necessarily be construed as limiting.

With reference now to a block diagram depicting an illustrative messaging publication environment for use in the publication or selective communication of messages corresponding to message originators will be described. As illustrated in the messaging publication environment can include one or more client computing devices corresponding to message originators. As previously described the message originators may generate messages via the client computing devices to be distributed via a communication network such as the Internet. Additionally the message originators may have messages generated on their behalf for distribution via the communication network . The messaging publication environment can also include one or more client computing devices corresponding to message recipients. As also previously described the message recipients receive or otherwise access published messages from the message originators via the communication network .

In an illustrative embodiment the message originators and message recipients can correspond to a wide variety of computing devices including but not limited to personal computing devices electronic book readers e.g. e book readers hand held computing devices integrated components for inclusion in computing devices home electronics appliances vehicles mobile telephones personal digital assistants laptop computers gaming devices computing terminals and the like. The message originators and message recipients can further include a communication software application such as browser software application that facilitates the generation and or rendering of the message content delivered via the communication network . Although the message recipients are illustrated as a separate component of the messaging publication environment one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that a single computing device may function as a message originator component and a message recipient component .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the communication network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the communication network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

With continued reference to the messaging publication environment can include a messaging provider component for obtaining messaging data and event data corresponding to message originators . As previously described the messaging data can correspond to messages generated by a message originator for publication. The event data can correspond to activity associated with the message originator from which messaging data will be generated. As will be explained in greater detail below the messaging provider component processes the messaging data and event data to determine a target set of message s to be published on behalf of the message originator . The determination of the target set of message s can include the generation of the content that will be included in the message. The messaging provider component then determines a set of message recipients that will receive or can otherwise access published messages according to filtering rules associated with the message originators content providers service providers or message recipients . As illustrated in the messaging provider component may correspond to a separate component of the messaging publication environment such as a web service in which data such as messaging data or event data is exchanged via application programming interfaces APIs over the communication network . Alternatively and as also illustrated in the messaging provider component may be integrated as a component of a content provider . Although embodiments will be described with regard to either a stand alone messaging provider component or an integrated messaging provider component in combination with a content provider such embodiments should not be construed as limiting to either embodiment unless specifically noted.

As further illustrated in the messaging publication environment can include one or more content providers that provide network resources accessed by the message originators . The content providers can process the message originator activity and generate event data utilized by the messaging provider component to generate messages on behalf of the message originator . Although not illustrated in the content providers can include various computing devices software applications and associated services for generating content and or interacting with the message originators and or message recipients .

The messaging publication environment can also include one or more service providers that can provide event data corresponding to message originator in a manner similar to the content providers . For example a service provider can correspond to a recommendation web service that interacts with a content provider. The recommendation web service generates recommendation event data utilized by the message provider component to generate messages corresponding to the content recommended to message originator . In another example the service provider can correspond to a memory enhancement and storage web service that can process and enhance information stored on behalf of a message originator . The enhanced information can be provided as event data to the message provider component which results in the generation of messages corresponding to the data remembered on behalf of the message originator . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that other types of services may be provided by a service provider without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The service providers can also obtain or otherwise access published message s acting as a message recipient and provide additional services functionality to the message originators based on published messages. For example a service provider can correspond to a technical help web service that utilizes the published messages to initiate an escalation protocol for assisting a message originator . In another example the service provider can correspond to a recommendation service to generate recommendations to a message originator or message recipient based on the content of the published messages associated with the message originator. Again one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that other types of services may be provided by a service provider without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

With reference now to illustrative components of a messaging provider component will be described. The messaging provider component can include a messaging data and event data interface component for obtaining messaging data and event data corresponding to message originators . Illustratively the messaging data and event data interface component can obtain the messaging data directly or indirectly from the message originators . Additionally the messaging data and event data interface component can obtain the event data from message originators content providers or service providers .

The messaging provider component further includes a data processing component for processing the messaging data and the event data. In an illustrative embodiment the data processing component can utilize messaging data and or event data processing rules to generate target messages to be published. The messaging data and event data processing rules can be maintained in a messaging data event data processing rules data store . The processing of the messaging data and event data will be described in greater detail below. The messaging provider component can also include a messaging interface component for determining a set of message recipients that receive published messages from a message originator or otherwise can access published messages. The messaging interface component may utilize filtering rules specified by the message originator message recipients content providers or message provider component to determine the set of message recipients. The filtering rules can be maintained in a filtering rules data store . Additionally the messaging interface component may transmit the resulting message data to the set of recipients content providers or service providers in accordance with any of a variety of communication protocols.

Although illustrative components of the messaging provider component have been illustrated one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the messaging provider component can include a number of additional computing device components. Additionally although the identified components of the messaging provider component have been logically grouped the various illustrative components may be implemented in a distributed network configuration as one or more web service components and or in a peer to peer network configuration.

With reference now to illustrative interactions of the components of the messaging publication environment for the generation and publication of messages based on message originators will be described. With reference to a message originator may interact with the messaging publication environment in a number of ways that result in the generation of messages to be published by the messaging provider component . In one embodiment a user associated with the message originator may expressly generate messaging data via a user interface generated by the message originator. Illustrative interfaces for the generation of messaging data by the message originator will be described below with regard to . The messaging data may correspond to text based messages multi media messages and the like. The messaging data may also conform to size and type specifications such as limits as to the number of characters types of multi media file sizes etc.

In another embodiment the user associated with the message originator may interact with one or more content providers . Such interaction will be generally referred to as user activity. Examples of user activity can include but are not limited to accessing browsing specific content via a network resource e.g. a web site submitting search queries keywords via a network resource purchasing items from a content provider via a network resource submitting content to be posted on network resources e.g. blogs updating user profile information maintained by a content provider and the like. In an illustrative embodiment the message originator does not need to identify any particular user activity as potential subject matter for incorporation into a message originator message. In the embodiment in which event data is received from a plurality of content providers the message provider component functions as a centralized message processor and distributor.

Upon receipt of the user activity each content provider can process the user activity into event data to be transmitted to the messaging provider component . For example the content provider can utilize an API provided by the messaging provider component to submit necessary information for generation of a message such as information identifying the message originator and a description of the relevant activity. Additionally each content provider can include additional information corresponding to the message originator such as other historical interaction information description information from user profiles or other information associated with the message originator . Still further in some embodiments each content provider can generate at least a portion of the target message for publication by the messaging provider component .

With continued reference to the messaging provider component obtains the messaging data from the message originator and or the event data from one or more content providers and begins processing the messaging data event data to generate target messages. The processing of the messaging data event data will be described in greater detail with regard to . Additionally the messaging provider component determines the set of message recipients that will receive the published messages associated with the message originator by filtering a set of potential message recipients according to filtering rules. As previously described the filtering rules may be specified by the message originators message recipients content providers and or service providers . The determination of the set of message recipients that may receive the published messages based on filtering rules filtering criteria will also be described with regard to . Upon processing the messaging data and event data and the determination of the set of message recipients based on the filtering rules the messaging provider component then selectively communicates or publishes the messages associated with the message originators to the filtered set of message recipients . The publication of the messages may be made contemporaneously with the receipt of the messaging data from the message originator . Illustrative interfaces for publishing the messages will be described with regard to .

With reference now to in an alternative embodiment the messaging provider component may be integrated physically or logically with a particular content provider . In a manner similar to the interaction illustrated in a message originator may interact with the messaging publication environment in a number of ways that result in the generation of messages to be published by the messaging provider component including the generation of messaging data by the message originator and the interaction of the message originator with the content providers . However as illustrated in in this embodiment the messaging data is transmitted to the messaging provider component through the content provider . Additionally because the messaging provider component is integrated with the content provider the event data resulting from the user activity is not separately transmitted to the messaging provider component and may be generated directly by the messaging provider component from the activity data.

Similar to the interaction described with regard to the messaging provider component processes the messaging data the activity data and or the event data if another component within the content provider generates the event data to generate target messages. Illustratively the target set of messages corresponds to the message content that will be selectively communicated to message recipients based on the processed messaging data and event data. Additionally the messaging provider component determines the set of message recipients that will receive or otherwise have access to the published messages associated with the message originator by filtering a set of potential message recipients according to filtering rules. As previously described the filtering rules may be specified by the message originators message recipients content providers and or service providers . Upon processing the messaging data and event data and determining the set of message recipients based on the filtering rules the messaging provider component then publishes the messages associated with the message originator . The publication of the messages may be made contemporaneously with the receipt of the event data corresponding to the message originator and the generation of corresponding messages by the messaging provider component .

With reference now to in another embodiment one or more service providers may provide event data utilized to generate messages on behalf of the message originator . is a simplified block diagram of the messaging publication environment of in which the content provider is not shown for purposes of illustrating the additional interaction of a service provider to provide event data. However the additional interaction provided by the service provider may be incorporated into either of the embodiments illustrated in and the interaction illustrated in should not be construed as limiting.

With reference to a message originator may continue to interact with the messaging publication environment in a number of ways that result in the generation of messages to be published by the messaging provider component including the generation of messaging data by the message originator. However in this embodiment the interaction of the message originator with a service provider may also result in the generation of event data that in turn may result in the generation of messages on behalf of the message originator. Examples of the interaction between the message originator and the service providers can include recommendation services user profiling user registration services network based storage and processing services data enhancement services and the like. For example as previously described with regard to an illustrative example a service provider may correspond to a data enhancement and storage service in which a user submits an image that is processed to identify items of interest to the user and to provide additional information related to the submitted image. As illustrated in the interaction between the message originator and at least one service provider may occur directly as facilitated via the communication network . Alternatively the interaction between the message originator and at least one service provider may be facilitated indirectly such as through a content provider .

In a manner similar to the interaction described with regard to the messaging provider component obtains the messaging data from the message originator and or the event data from the service provider and begins processing the messaging data event data to generate target messages. Additionally the messaging provider component determines the set of message recipients that will receive the published messages associated with the message originator by filtering a set of potential message recipients according to filtering rules. As previously described the filtering rules may be specified by the message originators message recipients content providers and service providers . Upon processing the messaging data and event data and determining the set of message recipients based on the filtering rules the messaging provider component then publishes the messages associated with the message originators . As previously described the publication of the messages may be made contemporaneously with the receipt of the event data corresponding to the message originator and the generation of corresponding messages by the messaging provider component .

With reference now to in another embodiment one or more service providers may be designated as message recipients to receive or otherwise access messages published on behalf of the message originator . is a simplified block diagram of the messaging publication environment of in which only the service provider is shown for purposes of illustrating the additional interaction of a service provider to receive access the published messaging data. However the additional interaction provided by the service provider may be incorporated into any of the embodiments illustrated in and the interaction illustrated in should not be construed as limiting.

In a manner similar to the interaction illustrated with regard to a message originator may interact with the messaging publication environment in a number of ways that result in the generation of messages to be published by the messaging provider component . The generation of messages can include the generation of messaging data by the message originator and the generation of event data corresponding to the interaction of the message originator with content provider s . In one embodiment a user associated with the message originator may expressly generate messaging data via a user interface generated on the message originator. In another embodiment the user associated with the message originator may interact with one or more content providers to generate event data. The resulting messaging data and event data is transmitted to the messaging provider component .

In a manner similar to the interaction described with regard to the messaging provider component obtains the messaging data from the message originator and or the event data from the content provider or the service provider and begins processing the messaging data event data to generate target messages. Additionally the messaging provider component determines the set of message recipients that will receive the published messages associated with the message originator by filtering a set of potential message recipients according to filtering rules. As previously described the filtering rules may be specified by the message originators message recipients content providers and service providers . Upon processing the messaging data and event data and the determination of the set of message recipients based on the filtering rules the messaging provider component then publishes the messages associated with the message originators .

In accordance with the illustrative embodiment of at least one service provider is designated as a message recipient and receives or can otherwise access the published messages. Examples of the service providers that can receive the published messages include service providers associated with a customer service agent a content provider sales and marketing service providers and the like. For example as previously described with regard to previously described illustrative examples the service provider may correspond to a technical help service provider that receives messages published based on the selection of a help control selected by a user or the submission of a question by a user. The service provider can then initiate additional user interaction with the message originator via the communication network . The additional interaction can include the publishing of additional messages between the original message originator and the service provider using the same user interface to create a message thread . The additional interaction can also include the initiation of additional or alternative communication methodologies between the original message originator and the service provider . For example the service provider can include a control such as a click to call control that would initiate a voice over IP VOIP communication between the message originator and the service provider . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that any number of communication methodologies may be employed between the message originator and the service provider .

Referring now to a messaging data and event data processing routine implemented by the messaging provider component to process messaging data and or event data will be described. With reference to at block the messaging data and event data interface component of the messaging provider component obtains messaging data event data. As previously described the messaging data and event data interface component can obtain the messaging data directly or indirectly from the message originators . As will be described below with regard to the messaging data may be obtained from a user interface generated in accordance with accessing a network resource e.g. a web site functionality associated with a browser software application e.g. a plug in or toolbar or from a software application executed on the message originator computing device e.g. a function or control provided in an e book reader . The messaging data may correspond to text based messages multi media messages and the like. The messaging data may also conform to size and type specifications such as limits as to the number of characters types of multi media file sizes etc.

As also previously described the messaging data and event data interface component can obtain the event data from message originators one or more content providers and or one or more service providers . The event data can include an identification of the message originator a description of the relevant activity additional information corresponding to the message originator such as other historical interaction information description information from a user profile or other information associated with the message originator and at least a portion of the target message for publication by the messaging provider component . In the event that the messaging provider component is integrated with a content provider the messaging data and event data interface component may also obtain user activity data that will be processed into event data. As previously mentioned in an illustrative embodiment an incentive may be provided by the message provider component or content provider based on the messages generated on behalf of the message originator . In one embodiment the message originators may be provided credits based on the amount of event data or messaging data that is created or collected on their behalf and or message recipient activity that can be attributed to published messages. In other embodiment content providers associated with the event data and or the selective communication of the messages may be provided credits based on the amount of event data or messaging data that is created or collected and or message recipient activity that can be attributed to published messages. Still further credit may be allocated to multiple parties such as the message originator and one or more content providers one or more service providers and the like.

At decision block a test is conducted to determine whether messaging data and or event data rules should be applied to the received messaging data event data. If one or more messaging data or event data rules apply the data processing component of the messaging provider component processes the messaging data event data according to applicable rules at block . With regard to received messaging data the data processing component may process received messaging data from the message originator to ensure that the messaging data conforms to formatting specifications font style message length etc. . In another embodiment the data processing component may process the content of the messaging data for derogatory vulgar language to correct for spelling and grammatical errors to translate language etc. In a further embodiment the data processing component may further process the messaging data to add additional data. In this embodiment the data processing component can include additional information associated with the message originator including additional historical data from previous published messages interaction with content providers user profile data identification information and the like. The data processing component can add additional contextual information associated with the subject matter of the messaging data such as an identification of the author and title of a book based on messaging data including content corresponding to the book. The data processing component can also enhance the existing messaging data by including additional multi media data such as image sound or video data with messaging data. The data processing component can also embed a selectable control such as hyperlink data in the message. The selectable control can be directed to certain keywords in the message data that would direct a browser software application to a specific network resource providing more information or offering items for purchase .

With regard to received event data the data processing component may process the event data to generate the content for the messages published on behalf of the message originator. In one embodiment the data processing component may utilize one or more message templates in which the format style and portions of the content have been established. In this embodiment the data processing component can apply the information transmitted in the event data to the message templates. Additionally the data processing component can include additional information associated with the message originator including additional historical data from previous published messages interaction with content providers user profile data identification information and the like. The additional information may be included in the event data transmitted to the messaging provider component or can be obtained independently by the messaging provider component. As previously described with regard to the processing of messaging data the data processing component can also enhance the received event data by including additional multi media data and or can also embed a selectable control such as hyperlink data in the message. The selectable control can be directed to certain keywords in the message data that would direct a browser software application to a specific network resource. The network resource could provide more information about the item or offer various items for purchase.

In another embodiment the data processing component may not generate messages from the entire set of received event data associated with message originators . In this embodiment the data processing component may select or prioritize specific types of event data that is generated into messages. For example the processing rules may establish that certain types of activities such as purchases additions to wishlists failures to complete a purchase e.g. navigation away from a shopping cart or other fulfillment network resource etc. should always result in the generation of a message. The processing rules may also establish that certain types of activities such as the purchase of personal items should not result in the generation of messages. The selection prioritization of the types of event data that results in the generation of messages may be configured by message originators as part of a registration process with the messaging provider component or the content provider . The selection prioritization of event data that results in the generation of messages may also be specified by the content provider or the messaging provider component . For example a messaging provider component may have contractual obligations to prioritize messages generated from event data from a specific content provider over messages generated from another content provider. Additionally the data processing component may generate multiple messages from the set of received event data that may be published with different content providers and or customized for different purposes. For example event data corresponding to a specific purchase may generate a first more generic message for the general public and a second more specific message that will be published to a smaller subset of message recipients .

In still a further embodiment the data processing component may provide the message originator with drafts of the generated messaging data for approval or modification. In this embodiment the data processing component may be configured to require explicit approval from the message originator prior to proceeding with the publication of the messages. In a variation of this embodiment the data processing component may provide the drafts of the generated messaging data to a verification proofreading service automated or manual for verification modification and or enhancements.

Referring again to if no processing rules are applicable at decision block or once the processing rules have been applied at block the data processing component prepares the target messages for publication. In an illustrative embodiment preparation of target messages may correspond to the collection and forwarding of the messages to the messaging interface component of the messaging provider component . Additionally as previously described the target set of messages corresponds to the message content that will be selectively communicated to message recipients based on the processed messaging data and event data. At block the messaging interface component identifies the potential set of message recipients that may receive or otherwise access the published messages. In an illustrative embodiment the identification of the potential set of message recipients occurs prior to filtering the set of recipients and corresponds to an initial determination of message recipients that could possibly receive access the published messages. For example the message interface component may determine which message recipients are available to receive messages e.g. active on the communication network which message recipients have active subscriptions and the like.

Referring now to at decision block the messaging interface component determines whether there are any applicable message originator or content provider filtering rules. If applicable filtering rules exist at block the messaging interface component filters the set of potential message recipients according to the applicable filtering rules. As previously described the message originator can specify which message recipients may be eligible to receive access published messages. For example the message originator can define a social graph commonly found in social networking network resources that corresponds to an organizational hierarchy for the message originator. Examples of such social graphs include individuals defined according to levels of indirection e.g. 1st 2nd 3rd etc. defined categories e.g. friends and family work colleagues etc. and the like. Additionally or alternatively the content provider can specify which message recipients may be eligible to receive access published messages. For example the content provider may also define a social graph that corresponds to an organizational hierarchy of the content provider. One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that additional or alternative filtering rules can be applied or that additional or alternative filtering rules could be provided by other components of the messaging publication environment .

If no message originator or content provider filtering rules are applicable at decision block or once the applicable filtering rules have been applied at block at decision block the messaging interface component determines whether there are any applicable message recipient filtering rules. If applicable filtering rules exist at block the messaging interface component filters the set of potential message recipients according to the applicable filtering rules. In an illustrative embodiment the message recipient may specify which published messages he or she is interested in receiving accessing. In one embodiment the message recipient filtering rules may be utilized to filter out message recipients that have selected not to receive access or are otherwise determined to be ineligible to receive access the published messages. For example a message recipient may choose not to receive messages from individuals not included in his or her social graph. In another embodiment the message recipient filtering rules may be utilized to specifically select which message recipients have elected to receive certain published messages. With reference to a previous illustrative example the filtering rules may identify which message recipients such as a service provider have selected to receive messages corresponding to messages generated when a message originator utilizes a product name as a search query.

If no message recipient filtering rules are applicable at decision block or once the applicable filtering rules have been applied at block at block the messaging interface component publishes the prepared target messages block to the filtered set of message recipients . In an illustrative embodiment the publication of messages may correspond to the contemporaneous posting of the messages to a dedicated messaging network resource e.g. a web site that may be accessed by one or more message recipients. In another embodiment the selective communication or publication of messages may correspond to inclusion of the published messages in a customized network resource provided by a content provider . In another embodiment the selective communication of messages can include the generation of messages that are directly transmitted to message recipients such as in accordance with electronic mail instant messaging short message service SMS communication protocols and the like. In still another embodiment the selective communication of messages can include the batch processing of messages that are not necessarily contemporaneous with the receipt of the messaging data or the event data. Illustrative screen renderings corresponding to the publication of published messages will be described with regard to . At block the routine terminates.

With reference now to illustrative screen renderings generated by the message originator for creating messaging data will be described. With reference to in an illustrative embodiment a screen rendering can be generated on the message originator client computing device . The purpose of the screen rendering among others may be for obtaining messaging data that is explicitly generated by the message originator . In this illustrative embodiment the screen rendering includes a first portion for obtaining messaging data. Portion can correspond to functionality included or otherwise added to a browser software application utilized by a user to access a network resource such as via a plug in or toolbar component. Accordingly portion may be displayed to the user as part of the browser software application and regardless of the specific network resource currently being accessed. or rendered on a display portion of the browser software application. In this embodiment the portion includes a text input control for accepting text based messages from a user. Portion can also include additional functionality that may limit text inputs to a preset number of characters that provides spell checking grammar checking functionality and the like. Additionally portion could include additional or alternative controls that would accept different forms of user input such as file selection controls.

With continued reference to the screen rendering can include a portion that can also be used to obtain messaging data. Portion can correspond to functionality that is presented to a user while accessing a specific network resource. For example the portion can correspond to functionality generated by the browser software application from markup language and executable code e.g. scripts . Similar to portion portion can include a text entry control for obtaining text based messages from a user. As previously mentioned with regard to portion portion can include additional functionality that may limit text inputs to a preset number of characters provides spell checking grammar checking functionality and the like. Further portion could include additional or alternative controls that would accept different forms of user input such as file selection controls. Although the screen rendering has been illustrated as incorporating both messaging data generating portions and one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate the portion or portion may be used independently.

With reference now to in another embodiment a screen rendering can be used to obtain user activity data from which messaging data will be generated on behalf of the message originator . As previously mentioned in most embodiments event data is generated from a message originator s interaction with a content provider without requiring any additional interaction action by the message originator. In this illustrative embodiment the screen rendering includes a first portion for displaying selectable controls on the browser software application. Based on a selection of one of the selectable controls event data corresponding to the selection is sent to the messaging provider component which can result in the selective communication of messages based on the event data. Although the controls are illustrated in as corresponding to a browser software application one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate the controls may also be associated with other software applications and or incorporated into various message originator computing devices such as an electronic book reader software application or electronic book reader computing device.

As described above with regard to portion portion can correspond to functionality included or otherwise added to a browser software application utilized by a user to access a network resource such as via a plug in or toolbar component. Accordingly portion may be displayed to the user regardless of the network resource currently being accessed or rendered on a display portion of the browser software application. In this embodiment the portion includes a set of controls that indicates a desire for the generation of event data and the specification of additional data that may be included in the event data and eventually the published messages . Specifically in one embodiment a control corresponds to a Publish Link control in which the message originator indicates a desire to publish a message in which a current network resource identified e.g. a specific link is included in the published message. In another embodiment a control corresponds to a Share It control in which the message originator indicates a desire to publish a message in which the current network resource being browsed and or the specific content displayed on the screen rendering is included in the published message.

In yet another embodiment a control corresponds to a Help control in which the message originator indicates a desire to seek assistance regarding access to the current network resource being browsed and or the content currently displayed on the screen rendering . In all of the above controls a user does not explicitly generate the message content. Instead upon receipt of an intent to publish the control obtains collects the necessary information that will be transmitted to the messaging provider component as event data and included in a published message. Although the screen rendering has been illustrated as incorporating all three controls and one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that each control may be used independently. Additionally a screen rendering such as screen rendering may include any number or variety of controls in which specific information is to be collected and or which is targeted to be delivered to specific message recipients. Thus controls and are illustrative in nature.

With reference now to illustrative screen renderings and generated by the message recipients for receiving or otherwise accessing published messaging data will be described. With reference to the screen rendering can correspond to a network resource provided by a content provider and accessed by identified message recipient s although for purposes of the illustrative examples in a single message recipient will be discussed. Such a limitation should not be construed as limiting.

In this embodiment the network resource is a customized network resource e.g. a customized web site that can include a variety of content associated with message recipient including a portion for displaying published messages. For purposes of an illustrative example portion further corresponds to published messages from message originators included in the social graph of the message recipient e.g. filtering according message recipient rules .

As illustrated in the portion includes a first published message that identifies a message originator Peter and includes a text based message likely generated specifically by the message originator. Portion also includes a second published message that identifies a different message originator Bill and includes a text based message likely generated based on the message originator s activities. In a similar manner portion includes a third message from yet a different message originator Rachel that also was likely generated based on the message originator s activities. Additionally message has also been enhanced by the inclusion of a hyperlink that can be selected to access more information about the message e.g. about the blender purchase a corresponding product and the like.

With continued reference to portion can include a fourth message from still a further message originator Ava . Similar to message message has been enhanced by the inclusion of a hyperlink . Additionally for purposes of an illustrative example message corresponds to event data that may have been submitted by a service provider such as a recommendation service working in conjunction with a content provider and does not correspond to explicit actions conducted by the message originator. Portion includes a fifth message from a previous message originator Bill . Message has been enhanced with a hyperlink that corresponds to subject matter associated with the content of the message and a hyperlink to a service provider for generating additional interaction with the message recipient . With reference to the previous illustrative example message may have been generated from event data provided by an enhanced information service provider based on the submission of a picture of the storefront or of a menu.

In an illustrative embodiment messages and may be ordered in accordance with a time in which they were published by the messaging provider component . Alternatively the messages may be published based on prioritization information provided by the message provider component the message originator and or the message recipient . For example messages and may represent event data received from two different sources that has been prioritized based on criteria provided by the messaging provider component. As previously described in an illustrative embodiment credit may be allocated based on the publication of the messages and or eliciting a defined activity from the message recipients such as selecting one of the displayed controls or the submission of a code included in the published message. In accordance with this embodiment the published messages may be prioritized in accordance with credit criteria to prioritize higher incentive based messages or to remove mitigate such messages for the message recipients .

With reference now to a screen rendering can correspond to a network resource provided by a content provider or messaging provider component and accessed by an identified message recipient . In this embodiment the network resource is a customized network resource e.g. a customized web site for publishing messages in portion . For purposes of an illustrative example portion further corresponds to published messages from message originators in which the subject matter of the published message is utilized as filtering criteria e.g. message recipients that wish to receive messages published on the topic of cameras .

As illustrated in the portion includes a first published message that identifies a message originator Chris and includes a text based message likely generated specifically by the message originator. Message includes a hyperlink to an identifiable product that could provide additional information about the product provide additional details regarding the message originator s review of the product facilitate the purchase of the identified product and the like. Portion also includes a second published message that identifies a different message originator Anne and includes a text based message likely generated based on the message originator s activities. In a similar manner portion includes a third message from yet a different message originator Ava that also was likely generated based on the message originator s activities. Additionally message has also been enhanced by the inclusion of a hyperlink that can be selected to access more information about the message e.g. DSL Camera from Mexcarmer purchase a corresponding product and the like. Message corresponds to event data that may have been submitted by a service provider such as a recommendation service working in conjunction with a content provider and does not correspond to explicit actions conducted by the message originator.

With continued reference to screen rendering can further include a messaging data generation portion for obtaining messaging data from the message recipient . As discussed with regard to portion includes a text entry control for obtaining text based messaging data from the original message recipient now serving in the capacity of a message originator . Portion may be utilized for message originators message recipients to create threads or conversations. Although not shown in an alternative embodiment the screen rendering may also generate additional portions for creating private or restricted message publications between two or more message originators message recipients.

With reference now to a screen rendering also corresponding to a network resource provided by a content provider or messaging provider component and accessed by an identified message recipient will be described. In this embodiment the screen rendering is a customized network resource e.g. a customized web site for publishing messages that includes at least one portion for publishing messages from message originators e.g. EBook Messaging Depot . For purposes of an illustrative example the network resource further corresponds to published messages from message originators in which additional user interaction occurs between one or more message recipients .

As illustrated in the portion includes a first published message that identifies a message originator Scott and includes a text based message illustratively a question likely generated specifically by the message originator as messaging data or based on event data e.g. a submitted question to another network resource obtained from a content provider . The portion also includes a second published message that identifies a different message originator Larry and includes a text based message likely generated by the message originator and responsive to the previous published message. In an illustrative embodiment the message originator messaging provider component or content provider may specify via filtering criteria qualifications for message recipients to receive access published messages and or to publish responsive messages. For example a message originator may specify that only professionally certified message recipients or message recipients certified by the messaging provider component may receive or can access the original published message requesting technical assistance. In another example a messaging provider component may establish a separate qualification program for establish credentials qualifications for message recipients .

With continued reference to the portion further includes a third message from a different message originator Service Tech . In this example the message originator corresponds to a service provider that may have subscribed to receive messages about the specific subject matter of the message originator s published message. In this example message includes a hyperlink in which the responding message originator may provide additional information to the original message originator . Additionally message includes an additional control to facilitate click to call functionality such as a VOIP communication session. In this embodiment the original message originator Scott and the subsequent message originator Service Tech can begin a more detailed or enhanced interaction once a higher expectation for communication has been established by the exchange of published messages.

As previously indicated the screen renderings illustrated in can be based on a variety of interactions between message originators message recipients content provider s and or service provider s . For purposes of an illustrative example assume a message originator can access content e.g. Book A via an electronic book reader computing device. The content may have been previously provided by a content provider and stored locally on the computing device or may otherwise be provided to the computing device via the communication network e.g. streaming content . While reading the book the message originator determines that he or she would like to ask a question about a particular chapter or passage in the book e.g. Chapter 11 of Book A . Using the electronic book reader computing device the message originator generates messaging data or event data that corresponds to the particular question. The messaging data may correspond to message explicitly generated by the message originator on the computing device e.g. via a user interface generated on the computing device . Alternatively the event data may correspond to information generated by controls interfaces provided on the computing device e.g. the electronic book reader . Such controls interface provide relevant event data to the messaging provider component that results in the content included in a published message e.g. an Ask a Question control button on the computing device that can obtain text corresponding to a user s question and add additional identification information about the content currently being accessed . The messaging data and or activity data corresponding to the event data may be transmitted from the computing in real time or substantially real time utilizing the communication network such as via a wireless communication channel.

Based on the submitted messaging data and or event data the messaging provider component can process the messaging data and or event data to identify or otherwise generate the target set of messages related to the message originator s question. The messaging provider component then identifies the set of message recipients that will receive or otherwise access the target set of messages related to the message originator s questions such as by applying applicable message originator filtering rules message recipient filtering rules content provider filtering rules and or additional filtering rules. Specifically assume that a number message recipients have provided filtering rules in which they have elected to receive messages related to the specific book e.g. Book A chapter in the book e.g. Chapter 11 and or characters in the book mentioned in the message originator s question. Additionally assume that the messaging provider component has further provided filtering rules that each of the potential message recipients has to have qualified to comment on the book by passing a short test that establishes their understanding of the book. After processing the filtering rules the messaging provider component then selectively communicates the target set of messages to the message recipient s e.g. publishing the messages to a messaging network resource . After accessing the published messages the message recipient s may become message originators by submitting responsive messages to the original message originator . Additionally some of the message recipients such as a service provider may include additional controls such as click to call control or a hyperlink to a Book A discussion network resource to initiate additional communications with the original message originator .

While illustrative embodiments have been disclosed and discussed one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that additional or alternative embodiments may be implemented within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Additionally although many embodiments have been indicated as illustrative one skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the illustrative embodiments do not need to be combined or implemented together. As such some illustrative embodiments do not need to be utilized or implemented in accordance with the scope of variations to the present disclosure.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art. It will further be appreciated that the data and or components described above may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into memory of the computing device using a drive mechanism associated with a computer readable medium storing the computer executable components such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or network interface. Further the component and or data can be included in a single device or distributed in any manner. Accordingly general purpose computing devices may be configured to implement the processes algorithms and methodology of the present disclosure with the processing and or execution of the various data and or components described above. Alternatively some or all of the methods described herein may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

