---

title: Secondary-hardening gear steel
abstract: A case hardened gear steel having enhanced core fracture toughness includes by weight percent about 16.3Co, 7.5Ni, 3.5Cr, 1.75Mo, 0.2W, 0.11C, 0.03Ti, and 0.02V and the balance Fe, characterized as a predominantly lath martensitic microstructure essentially free of topologically close-packed (TCP) phases and carburized to include fine MC carbides to provide a case hardness of at least about 62 HRC and a core toughness of at least about 50 ksi√in.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08801872&OS=08801872&RS=08801872
owner: QuesTek Innovations, LLC
number: 08801872
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080820
---
This is a utility application based upon the following provisional application which is incorporated herewith by reference and for which priority is claimed U.S. Ser. No. 60 957 307 filed Aug. 22 2007.

Activities relating to the development of the subject matter of this invention were funded at least in part by United States Government Naval Air Warfare Center Contract No. N68335 06 C 0339 and thus may be subject to license rights and other rights in the United States.

In a principal aspect the present invention relates to a high performance carburized gear steel that can improve the performance of rotorcraft power transmissions due to a unique and useful combination of surface hardness and core toughness. The U.S. Navy estimates that a 20 increase in gear durability would provide an annual cost saving of 17 million to the Defense Logistics Agency. However the rotorcraft industry has not adopted a new gear steel for over twenty years and instead focused on surface processing optimizations such as laser peening super finishing and directional forging. Such processes are providing diminishing returns in durability improvements. The subject invention provides a solution complementary to process enhancements and enables high performance gears having reduced size and weight which are capable of transmitting more power at increased operating temperatures.

Carburized X53 U.S. Pat. No. 4 157 258 is the incumbent material in rotorcraft transmissions. Compared to X53 the subject invention places an emphasis on increasing the case strength and the core fracture toughness as well as increasing the thermal stability up to 450 C. to provide hot hardness in high temperature excursions. U.S. Pat. No. 6 464 801 also discloses case hardened steels. However the embodiment A1 of U.S. Pat. No. 6 464 801 shows limited surface hardness i.e. Rockwell C scale hardness HRC of 60 62. Another embodiment of U.S. Pat. No. 6 464 801 steel C3 shows a greater surface hardness of 69 HRC but the core of this steel lacks toughness. To be usable as a gear the core fracture toughness of the steel must exceed 50 ksi in. Thus there has developed a need for a carburized gear steel with a surface hardness of HRC of at least about 62 64 at a usable core toughness exceeding 50 ksi in.

Briefly the present invention comprises a high performance gear steel which is especially useful for rotorcraft transmissions. The steel exhibits an increase in surface hardness and core fracture toughness compared to conventional carburized gear steels. The steel is designed for a reasonable carbide solvus temperature which in turn enables gas or vacuum carburization. Upon gas quenching from the solution heat treatment temperature the steel transforms into a predominantly lath martensitic matrix. During tempering an optimal strengthening dispersion of secondary MC carbide precipitates where M is Mo Cr W and or V. The high tempering temperature of the steel enables higher operating temperatures in transmission components compared to conventional gear steels like X53 or 9310.

To achieve high core toughness the matrix composition is carefully balanced to ensure the ductile to brittle transition is sufficiently below room temperature. The designed composition also effectively limits the thermodynamic driving force for precipitation of embrittling Topologically Close Packed TCP intermetallic phases such as and . Toughness of the invented steel is further enhanced by the distribution of a fine dispersion of grain pinning particles that are stable during carburization and solution heat treatment cycles. The grain pinning particles are MC carbides where M Ti Nb Zr V with Ti preferred that dissolve during homogenization and subsequently precipitate during forging.

The exemplary steel of the invention is designated as C64 in the above table. By virtue of inclusion of W this steel is distinct from the steels disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 464 801 i.e. A1 C2 and C3 . Inclusion of W increases the MC driving force similar to Cr or Mo and uniquely limits the thermodynamic driving force for precipitation of undesirable TCP phases. Whereas Mo and Cr preferentially promote phase more than phase W provides a reverse effect. Thus by adding W the total driving force for and phases is balanced and precipitation of either TCP phase is avoided.

Alloy C69B is a counterexample. Although alloy C69B does include W and successfully tends to avoid the precipitation of TCP phases insufficient Ni in the matrix places the ductile to brittle transition above room temperature. The Ni content is thus greater in alloys of the embodiment of the invention to place the ductile to brittle transition below room temperature and concurrently maximize the driving force for MC enabling the highest surface hardness at a usable toughness compared to any other known secondary hardening steel.

Due to high surface hardness good core toughness and the high temperature capability the disclosed steel is considered especially utilitarian with respect to gears for helicopter transmissions. Other uses of the steel include vehicle gearing and armor. With respect to the constituents in the exemplary steel set forth above the alloy preferably includes a variance in the constituents in the range of plus or minus five percent of the mean value.

In general the subject matter of the invention comprises a secondary hardening carburized gear steel with surface hardness of HRC of at least about 62 64 and core fracture toughness greater than about 50 ksi in. The interactions among the desired hierarchical microstructure the processing and the property objectives are represented by the systems design chart in . An ultimate goal of this invention was to optimize the whole system by controlling each subsystem and provide the most useful combination of surface hardness core fracture toughness and temperature resistance.

Failure modes in gears are generally grouped into three categories bending fatigue contact fatigue and temperature induced scoring. Bending fatigue as well as contact fatigue can be limited by a high surface hardness. To achieve high surface hardness the steel of the invention employs efficient secondary hardening by coherent MC carbides which precipitate during tempering. The high Co content of the steel retards dislocation recovery and reduces the density of dislocations in response to thermal exposure. MC carbides precipitate coherently on these dislocations during tempering and provide a strong secondary hardening response enabling a surface hardness of 62 64 HRC.

The steel alloy of the invention also limits temperature induced scoring. Subsurface scoring results if the alloy s contact fatigue strength drops below the applied stress at any point below the surface. To provide adequate fatigue strength and avoid subsurface scoring typically at least about a 1 mm deep hardened case is preferred. The steel of the invention achieves this desirable case depth via a carbon content gradient achieved during carburization.

The steel comprises a predominantly lath martensitic matrix free of TCP phases and is strengthened by a fine scale distribution of MC carbides. In order to produce a predominantly lath martensitic matrix the martensite start temperature M must be higher than about 100 C. at the carburized surface. To this end the invention has a carefully optimized the Ni content. While Ni is desirable for cleavage resistance it also stabilizes austenite and thus depresses M. The Ni content is chosen to place the ductile to brittle transition of the steel sufficiently below room temperature preferably below 20 C. while maintaining a sufficiently high M. The Ductile to Brittle Transition Temperature DBTT of the steel can be characterized by measuring the CVN impact energy at varying temperatures. As shown in while earlier prototype alloy C69B shows susceptibility to cleavage up to 150 C. the optimized composition of alloy C64 of the invention successfully depresses the DBTT to about 20 C.

To further enhance toughness the average grain diameter must be less than about 50 . To prevent undesirable grain growth during solution treatment the steel employs a grain pinning dispersion of MC particles where M may be Ti Nb Zr or V with Ti preferred. To improve the grain pinning efficiency the particle size of the grain pinning dispersion should be refined. A refined size of the MC particles is achieved by designing a system wherein the particles dissolve during homogenization and subsequently precipitate during forging. The MC particles remain stable during subsequent carburization and solution heat treatment cycles.

The resulting lath martensitic matrix is free of undesirable TCP phases. TCP phase precipitation is to be avoided during tempering because such phases can reduce the alloy ductility and toughness. The thermodynamic driving force for precipitation of TCP phases is limited in the invention by the contents of Cr Mo and W.

A 3 000 lb vacuum induction melt of Fe 16.1Co 4.5Cr 4.3Ni 1.8Mo 0.12C 0.1V 0.1W 0.02Ti wt was prepared from high purity materials. The melt was converted to a 1.5 inch square bar. The optimum processing condition was to solutionize at 1050 90 minutes quench with oil immerse in liquid nitrogen for 1 hour warm in air to room temperature temper at 468 C. for 56 hours and cool in air. The DBTT in this condition was between 150 C. and 250 C.

A 30 lb vacuum induction melt of Fe 17.0Co 7.0Ni 3.5Cr 1.5Mo 0.2W 0.12C 0.03Ti wt was prepared from high purity materials. Mof the case material was measured as 162 C. from dilatometry in agreement with model predictions. The carburization response of this prototype was determined from hardness measurements. The optimum processing condition was to carburize and concurrently solutionize the steel at 927 C. for 1 hour quench with oil and immerse in liquid nitrogen. A subsequent tempering at 482 C. for 16 hours resulted in a surface hardness of 62.5 HRC. The case depth of the carburized sample was about 1 mm. An atom probe tomography analysis of the steel verified the absence of TCP phases.

A 300 lb vacuum induction melt of Fe 17.0Co 7.0Ni 3.5Cr 1.5Mo 0.2W 0.12C wt was prepared from high purity materials. Because this prototype did not include Ti the grain pinning dispersion of TiC particles could not form. As a result the average grain diameter was 83 and toughness was very low. The CVN impact energy of the core material from this prototype was 5 ft lb at an Ultimate Tensile Strength UTS of 238 ksi.

A second 300 lb vacuum induction melt of Fe 17.0Co 7.0Ni 3.5Cr 1.5Mo 0.2W 0.12C 0.03Ti wt was prepared from high purity materials. This composition did include Ti and the average grain diameter was 35 . Toughness improved substantially. The CVN impact energy of the core material from this prototype was 23 ft lb at a UTS of 238 ksi. The corresponding processing condition was to carburize and concurrently solutionize the steel at 927 C. for 8 hours quench with oil immerse in liquid nitrogen for 1 hour temper at 496 C. for 8 hours and cool in air. The fracture toughness in this condition was 100 ksi in. The DBTT in this condition was around room temperature.

A 10 000 lb vacuum induction melt of Fe 16.3Co 7.5Ni 3.5Cr 1.75Mo 0.2W 0.11C 0.03Ti 0.02V wt was prepared from high purity materials. Half of the melt was converted to a 6.5 inch diameter barstock while the other half was converted to a 4.5 inch diameter barstock. The optimum processing condition was to carburize the steel at 927 C. for 3 hours cool in air solutionize at 1000 C. for 40 minutes quench with oil immerse in liquid nitrogen for 2 hours warm in air to room temperature temper at 496 C. for 8 hours and cool in air. The average grain diameter in this condition was 27 and the fracture toughness was 85 ksi in at a UTS of 228 ksi.

Table II summarizes the information with respect to the examples set forth above and also indicates an embodiment of the invention alloy C64 . While an embodiment of the invention is disclosed it is to be understood that the invention is to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

