---

title: Phytochrome-based fluorophores
abstract: Genetically-engineered fluorophore molecules with increased fluorescence are provided. These fluorophores are derived from the domains of phytochromes, and in particular bacterial phytochromes. Methods for generating these fluorophores and various applications of these fluorophores are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09296797&OS=09296797&RS=09296797
owner: WISCONSIN ALUMNI RESEARCH FOUNDATION
number: 09296797
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080702
---
This invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 958 261 filed Jul. 3 2007 which is herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agencies DOE grant No. DE FG02 88ER13968 and NSF grant No. 0519970. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to new fluorescent molecules and particularly to phytochrome based fluorophores with increased fluorescence.

Phytochrome is a photoreceptor a pigment that organisms use to detect light. The unique photochromic properties of the phytochrome Phy photoreceptors allow them to photoconvert between two meta stable forms a red light R absorbing Pr form and a far red light Fr absorbing Pfr form. Phytochromes Phys act as light regulated switches in a number of photosensory processes in plants bacteria and fungi.

Biochemically phytochrome is a protein with a bilin chromophore. Sequence alignments and 3 dimensional structural analysis of the chromophore binding domain CBD of the bacteriophytochrome BphP from the proteobacterium demonstrate that many residues close to the phytochrome s biliverdin IX BV chromophore are conserved throughout the Phy superfamily. This conservation suggests that these residues have been retained through evolution because they play important roles in bilin ligation the formation and stabilization of Pr and Pfr and transmitting the light signal to the histidine kinase domain of the protein.

Prior mutational studies have identified a number of amino acids that are important for chromophore incorporation and Phy signaling. For example the histidine directly preceding the cysteine responsible for covalent bilin attachment has been implicated as necessary for bilin ligation and phototransformation in plant phytochromes Remberg et al. 1999266 201 208 . A structurally conserved isoleucine Ile35 in DrBphP the bacteriophytochrome from near the N terminus of the phytochromes has been implicated as important for protein solubility Bhoo et al. 1997119 11717 11718 . To date many phytochrome mutations have been generated via random mutagenesis screens. However it would be advantageous to genetically engineer phytochrome mutations in a more predictable and logical manner. For instance one or multiple directed amino acid substitutions can be useful to test the effects of size or charge at conserved sites.

Plant phytochromes can exhibit some fluorescence. Wild type plant phytochromes and the PAS GAF PHY construct from the cyanobacterial phytochrome Cph known as Cph1 are shown to be fluorescent with the non natural linear tetrapyrrole phycoerythrobilin Murphy and Lagarias 19977 870 876 . For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 046 014 describes phytofluors which are fluorescent adducts comprising an apoprotein and a bilin. Isolation of fluorescent Cph1 mutants recovered from a PHY domain mutant library was disclosed in Fischer and Lagarias 2004101 17334 17339.

Various methods and reporter molecules are available for monitoring gene activity and protein distribution within cells. These include the formation of fusion proteins with coding sequences for reporter molecules markers such as beta galactosidase luciferase and green fluorescent protein. Particularly useful reporter is the Green Fluorescent Protein GFP from the bioluminescent jellyfish which is frequently used as a fluorescent marker and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 491 084. However the known reporter molecules have a variety of limitations including short wavelength of the fluorescence emission and small separation between excitation and emission wavelength maxima. The discovery of novel reporter molecules for monitoring gene activity protein synthesis and protein distribution within cells can provide very useful tools for biotechnology applications. The present invention addresses these and related needs.

Isolated polynucleotides are provided that encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence over the corresponding wild type bacterial phytochrome domains. The modified bacterial phytochrome domains include amino acid sequences that are at least 95 identical to SEQ ID NO 1 SEQ ID NO 2 SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 4 SEQ ID NO 5 SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 7 or SEQ ID NO 8. The isolated polynucleotides may encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains that include the amino acid sequence His Ile Pro HIP .

Isolated polynucleotides are provided that encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence over the corresponding wild type bacterial phytochrome domains where the modified bacterial phytochrome domains comprise a mutation of the polypeptide sequence of bacterial phytochrome which is selected from the group consisting of i mutations D207A D207E D207H D207K D207L D207N D207Q D207S and D207T from the phytochrome of ii mutations D84A D84E D84H D84K D84L D84N D84Q D84S and D84T from the phytochrome of OS A also known as A and also abbreviated as SyA and iii mutations D86A D86E D86H D86K D86L D86N D86Q D86S and D86T from the phytochrome of OS B also known as B and also abbreviated as SyB . The Dr phytochrome mutation may preferably be D207H. The SyA phytochrome mutation may preferably be D84H. The SyB phytochrome mutation may preferably be D86H.

Expression vectors are provided which include a the isolated polynucleotides described above which encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence and b regulatory sequences that are operably linked to these polynucleotides. The regulatory sequences may be promoters.

Isolated polypeptides are provided which encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence over the corresponding wild type bacterial phytochrome domains. The isolated polypeptides include amino acid sequences that are at least 95 identical to SEQ ID NO 1 SEQ ID NO 2 SEQ ID NO 3 SEQ ID NO 4 SEQ ID NO 5 SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 7 or SEQ ID NO 8. The modified bacterial phytochrome domains may include the amino acid sequence His Ile Pro HIP .

Isolated polypeptides are provided that encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains which include mutations of the polypeptide sequences of bacterial phytochrome selected from the group consisting of mutations D207A D207E D207H D207K D207L D207N D207Q D207S and D207T from the phytochrome of mutations D84A D84E D84H D84K D84L D84N D84Q D84S and D84T from the phytochrome of OS A and mutations D86A D86E D86H D86K D86L D86N D86Q D86S and D86T from the phytochrome of OS B where the modified bacterial phytochrome domains have increased fluorescence over the corresponding wild type bacterial phytochrome domains.

Cells are provided which include DNA molecules having regulatory elements from genes other than genes encoding bacterial phytochromes which regulatory elements are operably linked to DNA sequences from or to DNA sequences from sp. OS Type A or to DNA sequences from sp. OS Type B which DNA sequences encode modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence. The cells may include DNA sequences that include the isolated polynucleotides encoding modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence which include the amino acid sequence His Ile Pro. The cells may include i modified bacterial phytochrome domains that include a mutation of the polypeptide sequence of bacterial phytochrome selected from the group consisting of mutations D207A D207E D207H D207K D207L D207N D207Q D207S and D207T from the phytochrome of ii modified bacterial phytochrome domains that include mutations selected from the group consisting of mutants D84A D84E D84H D84K D84L D84N D84Q D84S and D84T from the phytochrome of sp. OS Type A or iii modified bacterial phytochrome domains that include mutations selected from the group consisting of mutants D86A D86E D86H D86K D86L D86N D86Q D86S and D86T from the phytochrome of sp. OS Type B . The cells may be selected from the group consisting of bacterial cells yeast cells fungal cells plant cells insect cells nematode cells animal cells and human cells. The regulatory elements may be promoters. The cells may be cells.

Methods for the production of modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence are provided. The methods include a culturing cells comprising DNA molecules having regulatory elements from genes other than genes encoding bacterial phytochromes which are operably linked to DNA sequences from encoding modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence and b isolating and purifying the modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence so produced by the cells. The cells may be cells. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the cells.

Methods for selecting cells that express proteins of interest are provided. The methods include a introducing into the cells a first DNA molecule having a DNA sequence encoding the protein of interest and a second DNA molecule having a DNA sequence encoding a modified bacterial phytochrome domain from or sp. OS Type A or sp. OS Type B with increased fluorescence b culturing the cells resulting from step a under conditions permitting expression of the modified bacterial phytochrome domain with increased fluorescence and the protein of interest and c selecting the cultured cells which express the modified bacterial phytochrome domain with increased fluorescence thereby selecting cells expressing the protein of interest. The first DNA molecule and the second DNA molecule may be linked. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the cells. The cells may be selected from the group consisting of bacterial cells yeast cells fungal cells plant cells insect cells nematode cells animal cells and human cells. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the cells.

Methods for localizing proteins of interest in cells are also provided. The methods include a introducing into cells DNA molecules having a sequence encoding the protein of interest linked to a DNA sequence encoding a modified bacterial phytochrome domain from or sp. OS Type A or sp. OS Type B with increased fluorescence such that the fusion protein produced by the cell will have the protein of interest fused to the modified bacterial phytochrome domain having increased fluorescence b culturing the cells under conditions permitting expression of the fused protein and c detecting the location of the fused protein thereby localizing the proteins of interest in the cells. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the cells. The cells may normally express the proteins of interest.

Methods for detecting expression of genes in cells are provided. The methods include a introducing into the cells DNA molecules having the gene sequences linked to DNA molecules encoding modified bacterial phytochrome domains from or sp. OS Type A or sp. OS Type B having increased fluorescence such that regulatory elements of the genes control expression of the modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence b culturing the cells under conditions permitting expression of the genes and c detecting the expression of the modified bacterial phytochrome domains having increased fluorescence in the cells thereby detecting expression of the genes in the cells. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the cells.

Methods for producing fluorescent molecular weight protein markers are provided which include a linking first DNA molecules encoding modified bacterial phytochrome domains from or sp. OS Type A or sp. OS Type B having increased fluorescence with second DNA molecules encoding known amino acid sequences that are in the same reading frame as the first DNA molecules b introducing the linked DNA molecules of step a into protein expression systems permitting the expression of fusion proteins comprising the modified bacterial phytochrome domains linked to the known amino acid sequences c recovering the fusion proteins expressed in step b and d determining the molecular weight of the fusion proteins from step c thereby producing fluorescent molecular weight protein markers. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the protein expression systems. The methods may further include purification of the expressed proteins.

In one embodiment the present invention provides compositions and methods that can be used as fluorescent molecules i.e. fluorophores. Provided are modified phytochromes and modified phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence which are suitable for use as fluorescent markers in a variety of applications. In another embodiment the invention also provides the means to create molecules with increased fluorescence from phytochromes by targeted mutation of particular amino acid residues in certain phytochrome domains. Phytochrome domains from a variety of organisms may be used as starting points for modifications that will generate the fluorochromes of the present invention. Preferably bacterial phytochrome domains are used as starting points for modifications that will generate the fluorochromes of the present invention. In certain preferred embodiments the modified phytochrome domains are bacterial phytochrome domains. Modification of phytochromes and or phytochrome domains can be performed by methods known in the art e.g. site directed mutations additions deletions and or substitutions of one or more amino acid residues of existing phytochromes and or phytochrome domains. Alternatively modified phytochromes and or phytochrome domains can be synthesized de novo for example by synthesis of novel genes that would encode phytochrome domains with desired modifications.

 Fluorescence refers to luminescence that is caused by the absorption of radiation at one wavelength followed by nearly immediate reradiation usually at a different wavelength. The fluorescence typically ceases almost at once when the incident radiation stops. The compositions of the present invention typically fluoresce red when excited with ultraviolet UV light although a variety of excitation wavelengths including the visible part of the spectrum may be used.

 Increased fluorescence or enhanced fluorescence refers to an augmented change in the level or intensity of fluorescence. Specifically the terms increased fluorescence or enhanced fluorescence refer to the difference in the level or intensity of fluorescence between a wild type phytochrome domain and a phytochrome domain that is modified according to the present invention. Examples of such increased fluorescence include the following 1 the fluorescence level or intensity of the proteins modified as described herein is increased above the level of that in wild type protein 2 the fluorescence level or intensity of the protein modified as described herein is in an organ tissue or cell where it is not normally detected in wild type non modified controls 3 the fluorescence level or intensity of the proteins modified as described herein is present in an organ tissue or cell for a longer period than in wild type controls i.e. the duration of activity of the fluorescence of the protein is increased .

The modified phytochrome domains of the present invention exhibit increased fluorescence over baseline fluorescence that may be present in wild type phytochrome domains. For example in the bacterial phytochrome of a substitution at amino acid residue 207 of a histidine H instead of wild type aspartate D is highly fluorescent and exhibits an excitation and emission of 420 nm and 626 nm respectively with approximately 400 000 counts over background levels as described below. In one example increased fluorescence resulting from modification of a phytochrome domain refers to fluorescence intensity that is at least 50 greater than the fluorescence intensity of the corresponding wild type phytochrome domain. In other examples increased fluorescence resulting from modification of a phytochrome domain refers to fluorescence intensity that is at least 75 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 or 450 greater than the fluorescence intensity of the corresponding wild type phytochrome domain. In a preferred embodiment increased fluorescence resulting from modification of a phytochrome domain refers to fluorescence intensity that is 500 greater than the fluorescence intensity of the corresponding wild type phytochrome domain.

The term fluorescent adduct refers to compound formed between a fluorescent molecule i.e. one capable of absorbing light of one wavelength and emitting light of a second wavelength and a second molecule. For example the peptides of the present invention may contain a chromophore binding domain that may form an adduct with a fluorescent molecule e.g. bilins .

 Apoprotein refers to polypeptides that have a hydrophobic pocket referred to as chromophore binding site capable of forming a fluorescent adduct with a bilin component. The term apoprotein encompasses both naturally occurring apoproteins and variant polypeptides derived through mutagenesis. A general discussion of apoprotein structure and function is provided in Quail et al. 199720 657 665.

 Bilin components are linear polypyrroles for example di tri or tetrapyrroles capable of fluorescing when associated with an apoprotein such as apophytochrome . The bilins may be linear bilins that are made from heme by cleaving the ring or cyclic bilins that are heme precusors for example protoporphyrin IX alpha or PPIXa and heme. In some embodiments when PPIXa binds to BphP as in the HIP mutants of BphP the phytochrome is fluorescent. Bilin components can be isolated from plants algae or cyanobacteria according to standard techniques. The bilin components can also be synthesized de novo.

 Chromophore binding domain CBD refers to the apoprotein N terminal subsequence of phytochrome. Typically the chromophore binding domain in bacterial phytochromes includes PAS and GAF domains of phytochrome. In certain cyanobacterial phytochromes such as SyA and SyB the chromophore binding domain typically includes a GAF domain but does not include the PAS domain.

The term operably linked or operably inserted means that the regulatory sequences necessary for expression of the coding sequence are placed in a nucleic acid molecule in the appropriate positions relative to the coding sequence so as to enable expression of the coding sequence. This same definition is sometimes applied to the arrangement of other transcription control elements e.g. enhancers in an expression cassette. Transcriptional and translational control sequences are DNA regulatory sequences such as promoters enhancers polyadenylation signals terminators and the like that provide for the expression of a coding sequence in a host cell.

The terms promoter promoter region or promoter sequence refer generally to transcriptional regulatory regions of a gene which may be found at the 5 or 3 side of the coding region or within the coding region or within introns. Typically a promoter is a DNA regulatory region capable of binding RNA polymerase in a cell and initiating transcription of a downstream 3 direction coding sequence. The typical 5 promoter sequence is bounded at its 3 terminus by the transcription initiation site and extends upstream 5 direction to include the minimum number of bases or elements necessary to initiate transcription at levels detectable above background. Within the promoter sequence is a transcription initiation site conveniently defined by mapping with nuclease S1 as well as protein binding domains consensus sequences responsible for the binding of RNA polymerase.

The terms isolated purified or biologically pure refer to material that is substantially or essentially free from components that normally accompany it as found in its native state. Purity and homogeneity are typically determined using analytical chemistry techniques such as polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or high performance liquid chromatography. A protein that is the predominant species present in a preparation is substantially purified. In particular an isolated nucleic acid of the present invention is separated from open reading frames that flank the desired gene and encode proteins other than the desired protein. The term purified denotes that a nucleic acid or protein gives rise to essentially one band in an electrophoretic gel. Particularly it means that the nucleic acid or protein is at least 85 pure more preferably at least 95 pure and most preferably at least 99 pure.

Two nucleic acid sequences or polypeptides are said to be identical if the sequence of nucleotides or amino acid residues respectively in the two sequences is the same when aligned for maximum correspondence as described below. The term complementary to is used herein to mean that the sequence is complementary to all or a portion of a reference polynucleotide sequence. In the case of both expression of transgenes and inhibition of endogenous genes e.g. by antisense or sense suppression the inserted polynucleotide sequence need not be identical and may be substantially identical to a sequence of the gene from which it was derived.

In the case of polynucleotides used to inhibit expression of an endogenous gene the introduced sequence need not be perfectly identical to a sequence of the target endogenous gene. The introduced polynucleotide sequence will typically be at least substantially identical as determined below to the target endogenous sequence.

In the case where the inserted polynucleotide sequence is transcribed and translated to produce a functional polypeptide because of codon degeneracy a number of polynucleotide sequences will encode the same polypeptide. These variants are specifically covered by the term polynucleotide sequence from a particular gene. In addition the term specifically includes sequences e.g. full length sequences that are substantially identical determined as described below with a gene sequence encoding a polypeptide of the present invention and that encode polypeptides or functional polypeptide fragments that retain the function of a polypeptide of the present invention e.g. a modified bacterial phytochrome with increased fluorescence.

Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by methods commonly known in the art for example by the search for similarity method described by Pearson and Lipman 198885 2444 2448 by computerized implementations of algorithms such as GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG Madison Wis. or by inspection. In a preferred embodiment protein and nucleic acid sequence identities are evaluated using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool BLAST which is well known in the art Karlin and Altschul 199087 2267 2268 Altschul et al. 199725 3389 3402 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties. The BLAST programs identify homologous sequences by identifying similar segments which are referred to herein as high scoring segment pairs between a query amino or nucleic acid sequence and a test sequence which is preferably obtained from a protein or nucleic acid sequence database. Preferably the statistical significance of a high scoring segment pair is evaluated using the statistical significance formula Karlin and Altschul 1990 . The BLAST programs can be used with the default parameters or with modified parameters provided by the user.

 Percentage of sequence identity is determined by comparing two optimally aligned sequences over a comparison window where the portion of the polynucleotide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps as compared to the reference sequence which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two sequences. The percentage is calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid base or amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of comparison and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

The term substantial identity of polynucleotide sequences means that a polynucleotide comprises a sequence that has at least 25 sequence identity compared to a reference sequence as determined using the programs described herein preferably BLAST using standard parameters as described. Alternatively percent identity can be any integer from 25 to 100 . More preferred embodiments include polynucleotide sequences that have at least 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity compared to a reference sequence. These values can be appropriately adjusted to determine corresponding identity of proteins encoded by two nucleotide sequences by taking into account codon degeneracy amino acid similarity reading frame positioning and the like. Accordingly polynucleotides of the present invention encoding a protein of the present invention include nucleic acid sequences that have substantial identity to the nucleic acid sequences that encode the polypeptides of the present invention.

The term substantial identity of amino acid sequences and of polypeptides having these amino acid sequences normally means sequence identity of at least 40 compared to a reference sequence as determined using the programs described herein preferably BLAST using standard parameters as described. Preferred percent identity of amino acids can be any integer from 40 to 100 . More preferred embodiments include amino acid sequences that have at least 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity compared to a reference sequence. Polypeptides that are substantially identical share amino acid sequences as noted above except that residue positions which are not identical may differ by conservative amino acid changes. Conservative amino acid substitutions refer to the interchangeability of residues having similar side chains. For example a group of amino acids having aliphatic side chains is glycine alanine valine leucine and isoleucine a group of amino acids having aliphatic hydroxyl side chains is serine and threonine a group of amino acids having amide containing side chains is asparagine and glutamine a group of amino acids having aromatic side chains is phenylalanine tyrosine and tryptophan a group of amino acids having basic side chains is lysine arginine and histidine and a group of amino acids having sulfur containing side chains is cysteine and methionine. Preferred conservative amino acids substitution groups are valine leucine isoleucine phenylalanine tyrosine lysine arginine alanine valine aspartic acid glutamic acid and asparagine glutamine. Accordingly polypeptides or proteins of the present invention include amino acid sequences that have substantial identity to the amino acid sequences of the polypeptides of the present invention which are modified bacterial phytochromes that exhibit increased fluorescence over the corresponding wild type bacterial phytochromes.

The invention also relates to nucleic acids that selectively hybridize to the exemplified sequences including hybridizing to the exact complements of these sequences. The specificity of single stranded DNA to hybridize complementary fragments is determined by the stringency of the reaction conditions Sambrook et al. 1989 . Hybridization stringency increases as the propensity to form DNA duplexes decreases. In nucleic acid hybridization reactions the stringency can be chosen to favor specific hybridizations high stringency which can be used to identify for example full length clones from a library. Less specific hybridizations low stringency can be used to identify related but not exact homologous but not identical DNA molecules or segments.

DNA duplexes are stabilized by 1 the number of complementary base pairs 2 the type of base pairs 3 salt concentration ionic strength of the reaction mixture 4 the temperature of the reaction and 5 the presence of certain organic solvents such as formamide which decrease DNA duplex stability. In general the longer the probe the higher the temperature required for proper annealing. A common approach is to vary the temperature higher relative temperatures result in more stringent reaction conditions.

To hybridize under stringent conditions describes hybridization protocols in which nucleotide sequences at least 60 homologous to each other remain hybridized. Generally stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 C. lower than the thermal melting point Tm for the specific sequence at a defined ionic strength and pH. The Tm is the temperature under defined ionic strength pH and nucleic acid concentration at which 50 of the probes complementary to the target sequence hybridize to the target sequence at equilibrium. Since the target sequences are generally present at excess at Tm 50 of the probes are occupied at equilibrium.

 Stringent hybridization conditions are conditions that enable a probe primer or oligonucleotide to hybridize only to its target sequence e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 . Stringent conditions are sequence dependent and will differ. Stringent conditions comprise 1 low ionic strength and high temperature washes for example 15 mM sodium chloride 1.5 mM sodium citrate 0.1 sodium dodecyl sulfate at 50 C. 2 a denaturing agent during hybridization e.g. 50 v v formamide 0.1 bovine serum albumin 0.1 Ficoll 0.1 polyvinylpyrrolidone 50 mM sodium phosphate buffer 750 mM sodium chloride 75 mM sodium citrate pH 6.5 at 42 C. or 3 50 formamide. Washes typically also comprise 5 SSC 0.75 M NaCl 75 mM sodium citrate 50 mM sodium phosphate pH 6.8 0.1 sodium pyrophosphate 5 Denhardt s solution sonicated salmon sperm DNA 50 g ml 0.1 SDS and 10 dextran sulfate at 42 C. with a wash at 42 C. in 0.2 SSC sodium chloride sodium citrate and 50 formamide at 55 C. followed by a high stringency wash consisting of 0.1 SSC containing EDTA at 55 C. Preferably the conditions are such that sequences at least about 65 70 75 85 90 95 98 or 99 homologous to each other typically remain hybridized to each other. These conditions are presented as examples and are not meant to be limiting.

 Moderately stringent conditions use washing solutions and hybridization conditions that are less stringent such that a polynucleotide will hybridize to the entire fragments derivatives or analogs of the target sequence e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 . One example comprises hybridization in 6 SSC 5 Denhardt s solution 0.5 SDS and 100 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 55 C. followed by one or more washes in 1 SSC 0.1 SDS at 37 C. The temperature ionic strength etc. can be adjusted to accommodate experimental factors such as probe length. Other moderate stringency conditions have been described Ausubel et al. 1993 Kriegler 1990 .

 Low stringent conditions use washing solutions and hybridization conditions that are less stringent than those for moderate stringency such that a polynucleotide will hybridize to the entire fragments derivatives or analogs of the target sequence e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 . A nonlimiting example of low stringency hybridization conditions includes hybridization in 35 formamide 5 SSC 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 5 mM EDTA 0.02 PVP 0.02 Ficoll 0.2 BSA 100 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA 10 wt vol dextran sulfate at 40 C. followed by one or more washes in 2 SSC 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 5 mM EDTA and 0.1 SDS at 50 C. Other conditions of low stringency such as those for cross species hybridizations are well described Ausubel et al. 1993 Kriegler 1990 .

A functional homolog functional equivalent or functional fragment of a polypeptide of the present invention is a polypeptide that is homologous to the specified polypeptide but has one or more amino acid differences from the specified polypeptide. A functional fragment or equivalent of a polypeptide retains at least some if not all of the activity of the specified polypeptide.

The present invention contemplates the use of a modified phytochrome as a fluorophore. In general any phytochrome with a DIP Asp Ile Pro motif may be used as to create a modified phytochrome with a HIP His Ile Pro motif which can then be used as a fluorophore with improved fluorescence. For example various bacterial phytochromes that have a DIP Asp Ile Pro motif may be used as starting points to create fluorophores with improved fluorescence. In one example the present invention provides phytochromes with modified aspartate 207 also called aspartic acid 207 Asp207 or D207 amino acid residue which exhibit increased fluorescence. In one example this aspartate 207 residue is located within the chromophore binding domain CBD of phytochrome of the bacterium . Example of this is shown in the 3 D structure of the chromophore binding domain of bacterial phytochrome of DrCBD described by Wagner et al. 2005438 325 331. The amino acid sequence corresponding to the chromophore binding domain of bacterial phytochrome isolated from was deposited in the GenBank on May 27 2005 under accession number 1ZTUA and is shown as SEQ ID NO 1.

In one example the present invention provides phytochrome D207 mutants of the bacterium which exhibit increased fluorescence. Non limiting examples of phytochrome D207 mutants of include D207A i.e. modification of Asp to Ala D207E i.e. modification of Asp to Glu D207H i.e. modification of Asp to His D207K i.e. modification of Asp to Lys D207L i.e. modification of Asp to Leu D207N i.e. modification of Asp to Asn D207Q i.e. modification of Asp to Gln D207S i.e. modification of Asp to Ser and D207T i.e. modification of Asp to Thr . All of the above can be used as fluorophores in the practice of this invention. Particularly useful for the practice of the present invention is the modified phytochrome D207H. Functional homologs of these mutants can also be used as fluorochromes.

The present invention also provides modified phytochromes from as fluorophores with improved fluorescence. In one example the modified phytochromes are from the thermophilic bacterium OS A or from OS B Steunou et al. 2006103 2398 2403 Allewalt et al. 200672 544 550 Bhaya et al. 20071 703 713 . Similar to what is described above for modifications of phytochromes from it is possible to modify the corresponding aspartate in the DIP motifs of the OS A or OS B chromoproteins and thus obtain fluorophores with increased fluorescence and with similar fluorescence characteristics to those of the mutation. Shown in SEQ ID NO 3 is the amino acid sequence of the full length SyA Cph1 protein of the bacterium sp. OS Type A. Shown in SEQ ID NO 5 is the amino acid sequence of the full length SyB Cph1 protein of the bacterium sp. OS Type B . Not wanting to be bound by the following theory this particular point mutation DIP HIP might have a ubiquitous effect throughout the phytochrome superfamily which contains a DIP motif.

In another example the present invention contemplates the use of a modified GAF domain of phytochrome as a fluorophore. The GAF domain is present in phytochromes and in cGMP specific phosphodiesterases. The present invention contemplates the use of modified GAF domains from both phytochromes and from cGMP specific phosphodiesterases. The GAF domain of the phytochrome described by Wagner et al. 2005438 325 331 is 165 amino acids long consists of the phytochrome amino acid residues 166 to 330 and is shown in SEQ ID NO 2. The similar domain of the bacterium sp. OS Type A also referred to herein as OS A SyA A or CYA encoding a CYA 2782 sensor histidine kinase shown in SEQ ID NO 4 can be used in the practice of the present invention. In addition the GAF domain of the bacterium sp. OS Type B prime also referred to herein as OS B SyB B or CYB is shown in SEQ ID NO 7. In general various phytochrome GAF domains suitably modified according to the present invention can be used as fluorophores with increased fluorescence. Functional homologs of various GAF domains can also be modified and used as fluorochromes.

In one embodiment the present invention provides modified phytochrome domains from as fluorophores with improved fluorescence. In one example the modified phytochrome domains are from the thermophilic bacterium OS A or from OS B Steunou et al. 2006103 2398 2403 Allewalt et al. 200672 544 550 Bhaya et al. 20071 703 713 . Similar to what is described above for modifications of the GAF domain from phytochrome it is possible to modify the corresponding aspartate in the DIP motifs of the OS A or OS B chromoproteins and thus obtain fluorophores with similar fluorescence characteristics to those of the mutation. Not wanting to be bound by the following theory this particular point mutation DIP HIP might have a ubiquitous effect throughout the phytochrome superfamily which contains a DIP motif.

Various fragments of the GAF domain can be used as fluorescent molecules of the present invention. Particularly useful for practicing the present invention is the modification of the Asp Ile Pro i.e. DIP motif present in the GAF domain of the phytochrome shown in amino acids 207 209 of SEQ ID NO 1 i.e. amino acids 56 58 of SEQ ID NO 2 into a His Ile Pro i.e. HIP motif. It is contemplated that various modifications of this DIP motif and its functional equivalents in other phytochromes will result in fluorophores useful for practicing the present invention. Some examples of fluorophores useful for the practice of this invention include modifications of the DIP motif of the GAF domain for example Asp to Ala i.e. D A Asp to Glu i.e. D E Asp to His i.e. D H Asp to Lys i.e. D K Asp to Leu i.e. D L Asp to Asn i.e. D N Asp to Gln i.e. D Q Asp to Ser i.e. D S and Asp to Thr i.e. D T .

A variety of modified phytochrome domains can be used as fluorescent compositions of the present invention. In general what is important is that the polypeptides used as fluorophores include modifications of the Asp D indicated above or its equivalents in other phytochromes. In one example preferred modifications include modifications of the DIP motif indicated above or its equivalents in other phytochromes. The amino acid chains surrounding the one or more introduced modifications can vary in length they can be symmetrical or asymmetrical. Thus a variety of functional homologs of these polypeptides can be used as fluorochromes in the practice of this invention. For example SEQ ID NO 8 illustrates an attenuated GAF domain from OS B 154 amino acids long which can be modified for example by introducing a mutation in the GAF domain of D86 to H86 i.e. D86H and used as a fluorochrome in the practice of this invention.

Examples of wild type phytochrome domains that can be modified and used in the practice of this invention are shown in SEQ ID NO 7 CYB GAF which is 200 amino acids long and in SEQ ID NO 6 CYB GAF PHY which is 421 amino acids long. In addition a variety of attenuated CYB GAF domains can be used as starting points for modifications that can generate phytochrome based fluorochromes. An example of one such attenuated GAF domain is shown in SEQ ID NO 8 where the attenuated GAF domain is 154 amino acids long. Functional equivalents of these phytochrome domains can also be used as starting point for modifications to generate fluorochromes according to this invention.

In another example the present invention contemplates the use of a modified GAF phytochrome domain fused to the phytochrome domain PHY as a fluorophore. The PHY domain is located at the C terminal end of the photosensory domain Oka et al. 200416 2104 2116 . The addition of the PHY domain to the modified GAF phytochrome domain can stabilize the fluorescence of the compositions of the present invention. In examples where the GAF construct may lose the intensity of fluorescence with UV exposure the addition of PHY can stabilize the intensity of fluorescence. If desired additional modifications of the phytochrome domains can be performed for example additional amino acid residues may be added to the modified constructs to improve the stability of the compositions of the present invention and or their fluorescence intensity to minimize photobleaching etc. As well additional protein domains can be fused to the modified phytochrome domains.

Since phytochromes with the Asp207 H is mutation or the parallel equivalent need a fluorescent adduct to emit fluorescence a phytofluor or an equivalent fluorescent adduct is typically provided. Fluorescent adducts such as phytofluors are known in the art Murphy and Lagarias 19977 870 876 . The fluorescent adducts are not necessarily limited to the native bilin i.e. phycocyanobilin PCB for cyanobacteria Cphs and Biliverdin for Bphs but may be any adduct which emits fluorescence as a result of binding the apoprotein covalently or non covalently . The fluorescent adducts are not necessarily limited to linear bilins i.e. PCB and can use cyclic bilins such as PPIXa. These fluorescent adducts may also be linked covalently by crosslinking techniques known in the art. The present invention contemplates fluorescent adducts consisting in some embodiments of naturally occurring or engineered apoproteins with bilins derived from different organisms or with non naturally occurring synthetic pyrroles.

The fluorescent adduct can be provided in a variety of ways for example as a co expressed entity within the system being used e.g. co expression of heme oxygenase with a bacterial phytochrome or BphP to make the native biliverdin chromophore or added exogenously to the apoprotein for example making bacterial agar plates with biliverdin in the medium to be taken into bacterial cells expressing the Asp207 His apoprotein for fluorescent bacterial colony recognition . To enable fluorescence one or more types of fluorescent adducts may be also be added to cell culture tissue slices or even given to a live animal to enable the fluorescent adduct to be formed. The manner in which the fluorescent adduct is provided is irrelevant to the present invention. Alternatively the cell or the living organism may natively provide the fluorescent adduct.

It is also important to note that the fluorescence emission wavelength may also be subject to alteration based on either further engineering the apoprotein the use of a different fluorophore or a combination of both. U.S. Pat. No. 6 046 014 incorporated herein by reference also gives several useful examples of this system including protein protein interactions with yeast 2 hybrid using a Phy apoprotein fusion as bait for a GFP fusion as prey. The phytofluor would be added to the system to generate fluorescence energy transfer from the now fluorescent Phy to GFP to enable the detection of the interaction.

Another powerful example of how this technology can be used includes making Asp207 His apoprotein antibody conjugation followed by detection by the addition of any number of phytofluors. This can also be useful in tracing protein expression in vitro in situ in cells or even in a living organism. Such conjugates may be used in a number of ways to screen for interactions using a high throughput microtiter plate assay where the D207 His apoprotein target fusion is simply detected by addition of the fluorescent adduct phytofluor .

The fluorophores may also be provided by injection for example injection into oocytes to monitor expression of a D207 His apoprotein fusion protein .

The invention is particularly useful because the modified phytochromes and phytochrome domains exhibit relatively long wavelength of the fluorescence emission. In general the novel fluorophores of this invention exhibit fluorescence in the red part of the visible light spectrum. Some of the modified phytochrome domains described herein have emission wavelengths far into the red part of the visible light spectrum for example as far to the red part of the spectrum as 720 nm. These values exceed the examples of other fluorescent molecules with long wavelength of emission for example mPlum with emission max at 649 nm Wang et al. 2004101 16745 16749 and Shaner et al. 200422 1567 1572 . In addition the modified phytochrome domains exhibit large separation between the excitation and emission wavelength maxima which makes them particularly useful.

This invention contemplates the use of phytochrome fluorophores as components of fusion proteins. A fusion protein is a protein created through genetic engineering from two or more proteins or peptides. This is typically achieved by creating a fusion gene removing the stop codon from the DNA sequence of the first protein then appending the DNA sequence of the second protein in frame. The entire DNA sequence encoding the first and the second protein will then be expressed by a cell as a single protein i.e. fusion protein . Optionally one or more amino acids in the form of a linker or spacer can also be added between the fused proteins or peptides.

In some embodiments this invention contemplates the use of a single amino acid modification for improvement of fluorescent properties of the compositions described herein. For example a composition of the present invention may include a phytochrome domain with just a DrBphP D207 mutation as described herein. Alternatively this invention contemplates the use of multiple amino acid modifications for improvement of fluorescent properties of the compositions described herein. For example a composition of the present invention may include a phytochrome domain with a D207 mutation and one or more other amino acid mutations as described herein. Two or more modified phytochrome domains may be combined for example fused into a fusion protein.

The modified phytochromes of the present invention have the potential to be expressed as apoproteins and can be detected by exogenous addition of native or synthetic fluorophores e.g. PCB or Cy5 derivatives . Labeling of fusion proteins with synthetic fluorophores is known in the art Keppler et al. 2004101 9955 9959 . Alternatively such mutated phytochromes can be co expressed with bilin derivatives in vivo.

Methods for detecting expression of genes in living organisms are provided. The methods include a introducing into cells of the living organisms DNA molecules having the gene sequences linked to DNA molecules encoding modified bacterial phytochrome domains from or sp. OS Type A or sp. OS Type B having increased fluorescence over the corresponding wild type bacterial phytochrome domains such that regulatory elements of the genes control expression of the modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence b culturing the cells under conditions permitting expression of the genes and c detecting the expression of the modified phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence in the cells thereby detecting expression of the genes in the living organisms. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the cells of the living organisms.

Methods for determining the tissue specificity of transcription of DNA sequences in living organisms are provided. The methods include a introducing into cells of the living organisms first DNA molecules that include the DNA sequences that are linked to other DNA sequences encoding modified bacterial phytochrome domains having increased fluorescence from or sp. OS Type A or sp. OS Type B such that the first DNA sequences control expression of the modified bacterial phytochrome domains having increased fluorescence in the living organisms and b detecting expression of the modified bacterial phytochrome domains with increased fluorescence in different tissues of the living organisms thereby determining the tissue specificity of the transcription of the first DNA sequences in the living organisms. The methods may include adding fluorescent adducts to the tissues.

The photocycle properties of some phytochrome domains have been studied. For example even though GAF can undergo photocycle when this fragment is expressed alone it cannot incorporate chromophore Esteban et al. 200544 450 461 . As well there have been mutations made at Asp207 or its equivalent DIP position to interrogate the role of that residue in photoconversion. For example these are described by Hahn et al. 2006 FEBS J. 273 1415 1429 2006 where the modified residues were D207A and D207N E196G and by von Stetten et al. 2007282 2116 2123 where the modified residues were Asp 197 D197A and His 250. Neither of these publications has any fluorescence mention. In addition photocycle properties of phytochromes are not the focus of the present invention. The present invention provides compositions and methods that relate to modified phytochromes with increased fluorescence.

In contrast to other widely used fluorescent reporters for example Green Fluorescent Protein which typically allow only for C terminal protein fusions the compositions of the present invention allow for making both C terminal protein fusions and N terminal protein fusions. For example the SyB Cph1 phytochrome from thermostable B also known as SyB lacks the N terminal PAS domain which has been shown to prevent N terminal fusions. Therefore modified phytochromes according to this invention lend itself well to the creation of both C terminal protein fusions and N terminal fusion proteins with improved fluorescence. The SyB Cph1 and SyB Cph2 chromopeptides are very small and may be more desirable than larger fusions when used in genetic engineering applications. In addition in contrast to GFP the fluorophores of the present invention do not require oxygen which makes them particularly useful for anaerobic applications. Thus the invention provides greater flexibility for genetically engineering protein fusions that include fluorescent reporter molecules.

The present invention contemplates the use of the fluorophore compositions and the methods for a variety of applications including but not limited to tracking molecule movements in living cells by microscopy high throughput detection of molecules in plate based or chip assays detection of protein protein interactions e.g. FRET Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer and nanotechnology applications such as single molecule measurements of biomolecular motion. The invention is particularly useful because in some embodiments of the invention the modified phytochromes and phytochrome domains may be thermotolerant withstanding temperatures exceeding 70 C. and thus may find utility in applications where other fluorescent reporter molecules are less useful.

It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular methodology protocols subjects or reagents described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is limited only by the claims. The following examples are offered to illustrate but not to limit the claimed invention.

The full length DrBphP gene from encoding 755 amino acids was PCR amplified from genomic DNA using primers designed to introduce BamHI and XhoI sites before and after the designated length of coding region respectively. The BamHI XhoI digested PCR products were cloned into pET21a Novagen San Diego Calif. which was similarly digested resulting in the addition of codons for a T7 tag N terminal to the protein and codons for a His6 tag before the stop codon. All site directed mutations were introduced by the PCR based QuikChange method Stratagene La Jolla Calif. . Each coding region was sequenced completely by the dideoxy method to confirm introduction of the appropriate mutation.

The DrBphP plasmids were transformed into strain Rosetta DE3 Novagen containing the Synechocystis Heme Oxygenase HO gene in pET 24a Novagen Bhoo et al. 2001414 776 779 . For protein expression 1 L cultures of the transformed were grown in a shaking incubator set to 37 C. and 225 rpm. When the cultures reached an OD600 of 0.5 protein expression was induced with 1 mM isopropyl beta D thiogalactopyranoside IPTG for 4 h at room temperature in a shaking incubator set to 100 rpm. The cells were then harvested by centrifugation at 8000 g for 10 min.

After pelleting the cells all further steps were carried out in a darkroom under green safe lights. Cells were lysed via sonication and cleared with a 30 min centrifugation at 18 000 g. To encourage complete chromoprotein assembly the crude soluble extracts were incubated in darkness for one hour in at least a 10 fold molar excess of BV biliverdin prior to affinity purification. The holoproteins were then purified via nickel chelate affinity chromatography and eluted with a 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 buffer containing 1 M imidazole. After elution the buffer was exchanged for 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 by ultrafiltration using a Centricon YM 10 column Millipore Billerica Mass. . The ability of proteins to covalently bind BV was monitored by zinc induced fluorescence of the chromoproteins following SDS PAGE as described by Bhoo et al. 2001414 776 779.

Pr Pfr spectroscopy was performed with a Beckman DU 640B spectrophotometer. All proteins were diluted with 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 so that the Pr peak at 700 nm had an absorbance between 0.25 and 0.6. Ground state Pr spectra were obtained for all proteins following an extended incubation in the darkness. After the Pr spectrum was obtained the sample was irradiated with red light R 690 nm until changes in absorbance were no longer detected. Afterwards the saturated R irradiated spectrum was recorded. Difference spectra were calculated by subtracting the R irradiated spectrum from the Pr spectrum.

Fluorescence spectroscopy analysis of the Asp207 mutations was performed at the UW Madison Biophysics Instrumentation Facility using a QuantaMaster Model C 60 2000 spectrofluorimeter Photon Technologies International Birmingham N.J. with both monochrometers set to a 4 nm band pass. Holoprotein assembly and photochemical characteristics of the DrBphP constructions that were analyzed are presented in Table 1.

The examples of the present invention include 25 substitution mutations at 10 conserved positions in the CBD of DrBphP. These residues included Glu25 and Glu27 which may be important in chromophore ligation Ile35 and Pro37 which are near the knotted interface of the CBD and may play a role in polypeptide folding and Tyr176 Phe203 Ile208 Asp207 Tyr216 Arg254 Tyr263 and His290 which line the bilin binding pocket and therefore may be important for photoconversion D .

Since the DRCBD alone does not photoconvert from Pr to Pfr but instead appears to become trapped in a bleached intermediate Karniol et al. 2005392 103 116 all of the amino acid substitutions were introduced into the full length DrBphP polypeptide. By doing so it was possible to test a full range of photochemical properties including bilin binding photoconversion and dark reversion. While several of the DrBphP mutants exhibited near normal assembly and photochemical properties the majority failed to properly photoconvert from Pr to Pfr even though the polypeptides could bind BV.

In some instances several amino acid changes i.e. modifications mutations were made at a single position. Some of these positions withstood conserved mutations and behaved normally while one in particular Asp207 failed to tolerate even conserved substitutions exhibiting irregular photochemistry for every residue tested. Given the position of Asp207 near the A B and C ring pyrrole nitrogens it has been proposed that Asp207 participates in phototransformation by accepting a proton from BV during the Phy photocycle Borucki et al. 2005280 34358 34364 . In support Resonance Raman analysis of several of the Asp207 substitutions indicated that even after prolonged exposure to R the chromophore remained protonated and thus prevented photoconversion.

Resonance Raman spectra of wild type WT DrBphP and mutants D207A D207E and D207H were obtained with 1064 nm excitation at low temperature 140 C. as described elsewhere Mroginski et al. 2004126 16734 16735 . Vibrational spectra were obtained by density functional theory DFT using the B3LYP functional Becke 199398 5648 5652 and the 6 31G basis set. The force field was scaled by a set of global scaling factors determined for a series of model compounds including hydrogen bonded systems Magdo et al. 1999103 289 303 Mroginski et al. 2000104 10885 10899 . This approach provides an accuracy of 11 cmfor the calculated frequencies.

Though much information was obtained from the 3D structure of DrCBD Wagner et al. 2005 the mechanism for chromophore attachment was unclear. Two glutamic acid residues Glu25 and 27 are relatively close to Cys24 and may play a role in activating the Cys24 sulfur for hydrophilic attack of the A ring vinyl group of BV . These two glutamates were replaced by alanines E25 27A to test their importance in holoprotein assembly.

When incubated with BV the E25 27A mutant still covalently bound BV effectively as judged by zinc induced fluorescence Table 1 and . E25 27A was also able to photoreversibly generate Pr and Pfr though the photoequilibrium for the mutant was slightly shifted in favor of Pr . Collectively these results indicate that Glu25 and Glu27 are not necessary for bilin attachment and may play a small role in photo interconversion.

Isoleucine 35 is in the center of the lasso formed by the GAF domain insertion and is necessary for the proper folding of apo Phy Karniol and Vierstra 2006 In Springer Dordrecht The Netherlands pp 65 98 . For example when the corresponding isoleucine residue is substituted with an alanine in pea phyA and BphP2 the resulting polypeptides were insoluble and failed to bind chromophore either in vivo or in vitro Bhoo et al. 1997 Karniol and Vierstra 2006 .

An Ile35 Ala I35A substitution in DrBphP also fails to covalently bind BV Table 1 and . However it was still able to interact with BV in a noncovalent manner and generate a Pr conformer that has an absorption maximum at 699 nm. The amount of Pr was dramatically reduced as compared to unmodified DrBphP implying that the efficiency of bilin binding was much lower . When irradiated with R the I35A construction produces an absorption spectrum similar to bleached intermediates of the Phy photocycle implying that upon R irradiation the Ile35 mutation is trapped in a photocycle intermediate. Based on these results and the position of Ile35 in the center of the GAF inserted lasso it appears that this residue is important for chromophore attachment and polypeptide folding.

Proline 37 is often conserved within the Phy superfamily and is located at the tip of the loop directly preceding the PAS domain as shown in and described by Karniol et al. 2005 Wagner et al. 2005. The position of this residue suggests that it plays a role in proper folding of DrBphP around the knot region. An alanine substitution at this position P37A was able to bind BV and form a spectrally active holoprotein with near normal Pr and Pfr absorption maximum Table 1 and . Because position 37 is in a loop region of the protein it can likely withstand a variety of mutations.

Tyrosines 176 and 263 lie above and below the D ring of BV D Wagner et al. 2005 . Tyr176 is necessary for proper photoconversion in a cyanobacterial Phy Cph from PCC6803 Sy Fischer and Lagarias 2004101 17334 17339 . Tyr263 may also play a role in photoconversion because it is near the D ring and is also predicted to form a hydrogen bond with the carboxylate of Asp207. To test the role s that these two tyrosines play in the photoconversion of DrBphP they were substituted with histidines Y176H and Y263H . Both mutants were able to covalently bind BV to generate Pr Table 1 . While the Pr absorption spectrum of Y263H was normal the Pr absorption spectrum of Y176H was much more broad in the R region with an absorption maximum at 696 nm Table 1 implying that Tyr76 in DrBphP is necessary for normal Pr formation. When irradiated with R both constructions photoconverted poorly to Pfr Table 1 indicating that both Tyr176 and Tyr263 are necessary to stabilize the Pfr conformer.

When exposed to UV light UV the Y176H mutation in SyCph1 fluoresces red Fischer and Lagarias 2004101 17334 17339 which is an indication it cannot complete Pr to Pfr photoconversion. Unlike the Y176H substitution in SyCph1 the Y176H substitution in DrBphP failed to fluoresce under UV however Y263H did fluoresce suggesting that Tyr263 in DrBphP may play a role similar as Tyr176 in SyCph1. These results suggest that Tyr176 does not fulfill the same roles in BphPs and Cphs and that because they exhibit similar phenotypes Tyr263 may perform the same roles in BphPs as Tyr176 does in Cphs.

In the Pr conformer of DrBphP the phenylalanine at position 203 forms part of the hydrophobic pocket that interacts with the D ring vinyl and methyl side chains D . This phenylalanine was replaced by alanine F203A to abolish the contacts to the D ring histidine F203H to change the electrochemical environment around the D ring or tryptophan F203W to determine if a bulky hydrophobic residue can compensate for a phenylalanine.

All three mutations were able to covalently bind BV and form a near normal Pr absorption spectrum Table 1 . When Phe203 was replaced with either histidine or alanine there was a slight blue shift in the Pr absorbance maxima . This shift in absorbance may be the effect of torsional strain on the conjugation system of BV. It is possible that the void of atoms in the F203A mutant shrinks the pocket surrounding the D ring thus forcing it to assume a new position. In F203H the blue shift in absorption could be due to charge repulsions between itself and the hydrophobic side chains of the D ring. F203A and F203H had similar R irradiated spectra with both mutations forming a bleached intermediate after saturating R indicating that these two mutants fail to properly photoconvert to Pfr. As further proof that these two mutants have abnormal photochemistry both fluoresced red when exposed to UV indicating that energy absorbed by R cannot drive phototransformation and is instead released as light. Unlike F203A and F203H F203W generated a Pr absorbance spectrum with a peak at 700 nm and though not as robust as WT F203W appeared to form Pfr with a maximum absorption of 750 nm . These results imply that a hydrophobic residue at position 203 assists in Pr to Pfr photoconversion.

Aspartate 207 is located in the highly conserved Asp Ile Pro or DIP motif in the GAF domain of Phys and is responsible for forming part of the bilin binding pocket D . Asp207 in SyChp1 is necessary for the formation of Pfr Hahn et al. 2006273 1415 1429 . The DRCBD structure revealed that the main chain oxygen of Asp207 is within hydrogen binding distance to the pyrrole nitrogens of rings B and C of BV while its carboxylate side chain may form an interaction with Tyr263. In addition the carboxylate side chain of Asp207 is positioned near the A ring carbonyl and may provide the repulsive force causing the torsional strain that rotates the A ring out of the plane formed by rings B and C.

In separate experiments Asp207 was changed to alanine D207A glutamic acid D207E histidine D207H lysine D207K leucine D207L asparagine D207N glutamine D207Q serine D207S or threonine D207T . These residues were chosen for a variety of reasons. The alanine mutation was chosen to abolish any contacts to the chromophore at this position while glutamic acid asparagine and glutamine were chosen because they are most similar to Asp and would test the importance of size and charge at position 207. Serine and threonine were chosen because their hydrophilic side chains would alter the hydrogen bonding patterns in the pocket. Histidine and lysine were chosen to test the effects positive charge would have on bilin ligation and photochemistry. Lastly the leucine substitution was chosen because it is close to the same size as aspartic acid but is hydrophobic.

While most of the Asp207 constructions expressed robustly in the D207S protein expressed poorly with the majority of the protein present in the inclusion body fraction indicating that a serine at position 207 is deleterious to protein folding. Based on zinc induced fluorescence all the 207 mutants were able to covalently bind BV even the insoluble D207S Table 1 . Though all mutations formed Pr even the most conserved mutations D207E D207N and D207Q fail to properly photoconvert to Pfr and arrested at an intermediate in the Phy photocycle . In addition all of the other mutants failed to properly photoconvert . Several including D207A D207H D207K and D207S also arrest at a photocycle intermediate when exposed to R . D207L appears to be completely locked in Pr and shows no photoconversion after prolonged R irradiation while D207T appears to completely photobleach upon R irradiation .

The majority of the tested D207 mutants exhibited increased fluorescence. Indeed all mutants except D207E and D207S fluoresced red when the purified proteins were excited with UV light Table 1 . illustrates the visual properties of the D207 mutants assembled with BV. The proteins were standardized for equal absorbance at 700 nm. The purified WT BphP and D207 substitution mutants were imaged in white light or UV light. Not wanting to be bound by the following explanation it is possible that the energy required to drive the isomerization of the chromophore is released as fluorescence.

To better define the fluorescent properties of the mutants they were analyzed by fluorescence spectroscopy and their excitation and emission maxima were determined. illustrates the fluorescence excitation and emission spectra of D207 mutants assembled with BV. Fluorescence excitation left peak 410 420 nm and emission spectra right peak 626 nm of the purified WT and mutant D207 samples were measured after being standardized for equal protein absorbance at 280 nm . Bar represents 100 000 counts.

The D207 constructions displayed similar excitation and emission spectra and maxima . All samples displayed maximum emission at 626 nm when irradiated at 410 420 nm . The mutant D207H exhibited the largest excitation and emission peaks with both being over twice the size as the next highest construction .

The amount of fluorescence does not correlate to the apparent degree of photoconversion. For instance the mutant D207L exhibited the least amount of photoconversion yet it showed intermediate excitation and emission spectra. Conversely the D207N mutation generated the most photoproduct and yet generated significant excitation and emission spectra . These two mutants are similar with respect to fluorescence yet dissimilar with respect to photoconversion.

To better understand the photochemical properties of several mutants Asp207 D207A D207E and D207H were investigated by Resonance Raman spectroscopy. D207A was chosen because it likely abolishes any contacts made to the chromophore at position 207 based on the 3D structure of DRCBD Wagner et al. 2005 . D207H was chosen because of its bright fluorescence in UV and D207E was chosen because its photochromic properties were the least affected when compared to those of other D207 substitutions.

Resonance Raman spectroscopy provides information about the vibrations of atoms and is very similar to infra red IR spectroscopy Meier 200534 734 752 . Because Resonance Raman spectroscopy exclusively probes the vibrational bands of the bilin and not the protein it is an ideal technique for analyzing the structure and protonation state of BV Mroginski et al. 2004 .

Inspection of the high frequency region 1400 1700 cm reveals some differences between the mutants and DrBphP beyond the level of tetrapyrrole configuration and conformation B . All three D207 mutants show a distinct downshift of the most prominent bands observed for DrBphP at 1577 1631 and 1656 cmby 5 cm. The N H in plane bending 1577 cm which is a diagnostic band for the protonated chromophore had a similar intensity in the D207E and D207H variants indicating that the chromophore is protonated in each case. The downshift of this mode in both D207E and D207H suggests that the hydrogen bond interactions around the chromophore are altered . Specifically the downshift indicates an increase in the distances between the ring B and C nitrogens and the hydrogen bond acceptor. As a consequence electrostatic interactions between the protein and the chromophore are modified which are expected to have an effect on the C C stretching frequencies as well. This is likely the origin for the downshift of the C C stretching modes at 1631 and 1656 cm B . This interpretation only partly accounts for the spectral differences between D207A and the WT protein. Here the apparent frequency downshifts are even larger but a detailed analysis is complicated by the fact that the chromophore is in equilibrium between a major protonated and a minor non protonated form. This conclusion is derived from the slightly reduced intensity of the N H in plane bending and the concomitant small intensity increase at 1595 cm .

Asp207 appears to be essential for the proper photochemical properties of DrBphP . Because Asp207 and its neighboring Ile and Pro residues are conserved throughout the Phy superfamily Karniol et al. 2005 Wagner et al. 2005 it is not surprising that even the most conserved substitutions at position 207 glutamic acid and asparagine fail to properly photoconvert from Pr to Pfr . Glutamic acid and aspartic acid differ by only 1 carbon atom nevertheless a Resonance Raman spectrum for D207E is similar to D207A and D207H indicating that all three are unable to compensate for an aspartic acid .

Isoleucine 208 is situated in the same highly conserved DIP motif as Asp207 Karniol et al. 2005 Wagner et al. 2005 D and appears to provide hydrophobic packing contacts for the B and C rings. Only subtle differences in photochemistry were observed when this isoleucine was changed to an alanine in DrBphP. The Ile208Ala I208A mutant could covalently bind BV and effectively form Pr. When exposed to R the assembled I208A chromoprotein produced a photoproduct with an absorption spectrum similar to DrBphP but with reduced absorption Table 1 and . These results suggest that though not necessary for Pfr production Ile208 affects the photoequilibrium between Pr and Pfr and thus plays a role in optimal Pfr formation.

The B ring propionic side chain of BV forms a salt bridge with the amines of Arg254 and may also form a hydrogen bond with the hydroxyl of Tyr216 D Wagner et al. 2005 . To test whether Tyr216 helps to secure BV in the binding pocket it was substituted for either a histidine Y216H or tryptophan Y216W .

Both mutants covalently bound BV and produced Pr Table 1 and . When irradiated with R Y216H produced a Pfr absorption spectrum with a slightly blue shifted maximum at 748 nm indicating that a histidine can likely compensate for a tyrosine at position 216 . Although Y216W also formed Pr its absorption was dramatically reduced as compared to DrBphP. When exposed to R Y216W showed little photoconversion to Pfr .

While histidine at position 216 appeared to fulfill the role of a tyrosine a tryptophan because of its bulky side chain may negatively alter the structure of the bilin binding pocket and therefore preclude proper photochemistry. These results suggest that Tyr216 though not necessary for chromophore attachment does participate in Pr to Pfr photoconversion.

The amine group of Arg254 forms a salt bridge to the B ring propionate side chain of BV Wagner et al. 2005 D . To test if Arg254 plays a role in chromophore attachment and the Phy photocycle position 254 was changed to alanine R254A lysine R254K or glutamine R254Q . While R254A and R254K were able to assemble with BV to form Pr Table 1 and R254Q failed to covalently associate with BV Table 1 and . In addition R254Q does not make Pr suggesting that glutamine blocks noncovalent association with BV.

It is plausible that lysine at position 254 should be able to form an electrostatic interaction with the chromophore and partially fulfill the role of Arg254. In accord R254K can convert between Pr and Pfr with absorption maxima at 700 nm and 750 nm respectively Table 1 and suggesting that lysine is able to perform the same photochemical processes as arginine at position 254. Similar results were seen with a corresponding mutation in SyCph1 Hahn et al. 2006 .

An alanine substitution at position 254 would abolish the salt bridge between the protein and the propionate side chain of BV. While R254A was able to form Pr its Pr absorbance was nearly four times weaker than that of DrBphP as judged by the ratio between absorption at 700 and 280 nm and surprisingly even before R irradiation the R254A mutation exhibits residual Pfr . When R irradiated R254A displays normal Pr to Pfr photo conversion . However the R245A mutation displays no photoconversion even after 12 hrs of continuous darkness while DrBphP appears to revert to mixture of Pr Pfr more substantially enriched for Pr. Collectively these results demonstrate that positively charged Arg254 helps in securing BV in the bilin pocket and may play a role in dark reversion kinetics.

In the Pr conformer of DRCBD the N of His290 provides the sole electrostatic interaction to the D ring carbonyl of BV suggesting that it may be responsible for the stability of the Pr conformer D Wagner et al. 2005 . To test the importance of His290 it was substituted with asparagine H290N or glutamine H290Q . Both constructions were able to bind BV and form Pr with an absorption maximum at 699 nm Table 1 and .

While H290N displayed a normal Pr absorption spectrum the absorption maximum in H290Q was larger than the Pr maximum of DrBphP when the spectra were normalized for protein concentration . When exposed to R both H290N and H290Q formed nearly indistinguishable bleached intermediates with absorption maxima at 747 and 746 nm respectively. Like several of the other mutants that fail to photoconvert to Pfr H290N and H290Q also fluoresced when excited with UV Table 1 . These results imply that His290 is necessary for the maintenance of Pr and for the proper formation of Pfr.

The plasmids used in these experiments were all pET 21a Novagen with an N terminal T7 tag and C terminal 6 His tag. Growth and purification for all was as follows growth of bacteria in 1 L LB 0.1 mg mL Ampicillin to OD600 1 induction with 250 mg IPTG at 20 C. for four hours. Bacterial cells were harvested by centrifugation and the cell pellets were stored 80 C.

Pellets were resuspended in 25 mL 30 mM Tris pH 8.0 0.3 M NaCl 5 mM imidazole 1 mM TCEP EDTA free Complete Mini protease inhibitor tablet Roche per manufacturer s instructions. Cells were lysed by two passes through a French press lysate was cleared by centrifugation. 200 L of 20 mM biliverdin was added to cleared lysate under green safe lights and incubated on ice for 1 hour. All subsequent steps were performed under green safe lights. Cleared lysate was passed over a 1.5 mL NiNTA column washed with 15 mL lysis buffer less TCEP and protease inhibitor and eluted in 6 mL 30 mM Tris pH 8.0 0.3 M NaCl 250 mM imidazole.

Fluorescence measurements were recorded on a Jobin Yvon Horiba Fluoromax 3 fluorimeter at 20 C. in a 2.5 mL sample. Measurements were taken on protein that had been kept under safe lights save for the time it took to put the sample into the fluorimeter.

Table 2 shows a summary of major excitation and emission wavelengths and the relative amount of fluorescence i.e. emission count for the tested mutant BphP 501 D207H mutant CBD D207H mutant Agro2N504 D196H i.e. BphP2 and Agro2 N504 Wild type Karniol and Vierstra 2003100 2807 2812 Karniol et al. 2005 . The Agro2 BphP2 protein sequence can be found in the GenBank under accession number Q8UDG1. The importance of Agro2 is that it is Pfr in the ground state instead of the normal Pr unlike other phytochromes described herein.

The DrBphP 501 D207H mutant had an A280 absorbance of 0.516 an A700 absorbance of 0.422 and 700 280 ratio of 0.818 in sample buffer consisting of 30 mM Tris pH 8.0 50 mM NaCl. The CBD D207H mutant N321 D207H had an A280 absorbance of 0.1452 an A700 absorbance of 0.2952 and 700 280 ratio of 2.03 in the same sample buffer as above.

The Agro2 N504 wt absorbance values had an A280 absorbance of 1.806 an A750 absorbance of 1.49 and 750 280 ratio of 0.825 in sample buffer consisting of 30 mM Tris pH 8.0 50 mM NaCl 30 mM imidazole. The Agro2 N504 D196H mutant had an A280 absorbance of 2.094 an A700 absorbance of 0.358 and 700 280 ratio of 0.171 in the same sample buffer as above.

The increase in fluorescence intensity for Agro2 N504 D196H WT after normalizing concentration by comparing absorbance at 280 nm and comparing similar peaks from the same excitation wavelength was as follows with excitation at 280 nm the 334 D196H 336 WT emission was 0.88 the 644 640 emission was 0.94 with excitation at 412 nm the 626 632 emission was 2.29 and the 688 685 emission was 3.17. D196H was slightly less fluorescent than the wild type when excited at 280 nm but significantly brighter when excited at 412 nm.

Genomic sequences for the SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 operons from sp. OS A also referred to as sp. JA 3 3Ab NCBI Accession NC 007775 and sp. OS B also referred to as sp. JA 2 3B a 2 13 NCBI Accession NC 007776 were obtained from The Institute for Genomic Research TIGR Rockville Md. Comprehensive Microbial Resource CMR website. Operon organizations were predicted by the FGENESB bacterial and operon gene prediction Softberry Inc. Mount Kisco N.Y. and TIGR CMR operon prediction functions. Related proteins were identified by BLAST searches of the GenBank database aligned by CLUSTAL W Higgins et al. 199422 4673 4680 and displayed using MACBOXSHADE version 2.15 Institute of Animal Health Pirbright UK .

PCR based modifications of Phys involved paired amplifications that were subsequently combined melted and re annealed to generate blunt ended doubled stranded fragments as described by Ulijasz et al. 1996178 6305 6309. The DNA templates for SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 full length coding sequences were PCR amplified directly from sp. OS A and OS B DNA respectively. The pBAD C expression plasmid encoding the PAS GAF PHY domains from sp. PCC6803 Syn Cph1 residues 1 514 was as described by Gambetta and Lagarias 200198 10566 10571. The codons for the C terminal c Myc tag attached to Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY were replaced with those encoding a 6His tag underlined followed by a stop codon by ligating the annealed primers 5 AGCTTTGCATCATCATCATCATCATTGAAGC 3 SEQ ID NO 39 and 5 AGCTGCTTCAATGATGATGATGATGATGCAA 3 SEQ ID NO 40 into HindIII digested pBAD C plasmid containing the Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY construction. From this manipulation the plasmid pBAD 6H was generated.

Assemblies of the various Cph truncations and mutants were accomplished by PCR using appropriate primer pairs the sequences of which can be found in the accompanying sequence listing. Products for the two PCR reactions were combined melted and re annealed phosphorylated and purified as described by Ulijasz et al. 1996178 6305 6309. Phosphorylated flush inserts were then ligated into the NcoI and HindIII digested pBAD 6H plasmid. Site directed mutations were introduced into the 6His tagged SyB Cph1 GAF construction by the QuickChange method Stratagene La Jolla Calif. using Pfx polymerase Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. in combination with the appropriate mutagenic primers see sequence listing . All coding regions were sequenced in their entirety to confirm the presence of the desired mutation and the absence of secondary mutations.

The PAS GAF PHY truncation residues 1 501 of the bacterio Phy from DrBphP was generated by PCR amplification of the full length coding region with the primers 5 CGTAAGGATCCATGAGCCGGGACCCGTTGCCC 3 SEQ ID NO 41 and 5 CCTGACTCGAGCGCCCCGGTCAATGTGTCACG 3 SEQ ID NO 42 that were designed to add BamHI and XhoI sites to the 5 and 3 ends respectively. The PCR product was digested with BamHI and XhoI and ligated into the pET21a plasmid Novagen Madison Wis. that was similarly digested.

PCB containing holo Cphs suitable for absorption resonance Raman RR and or NMR spectroscopy were produced using the dual plasmid expression system developed by Gambetta and Lagarias 200198 10566 10571. The kanamycin resistance plasmid pPL PCB expressed the HO and BVR enzymes under D isopropyl thiogalactopyranoside IPTG control to direct the synthesis of PCB from heme. Ampicillin resistance pBAD 6H plasmids expressed the 6His tagged SyA Cph1 SyB Cph1 and Syn Cph1 truncations solely under arabinose control Gambetta and Lagarias 200198 10566 10571 . The pPL PCB and pBAD 6H plasmids were simultaneously introduced into the ara operon deficient expression strain BL21 AI Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. and cultured in 500 mL of repression medium RM to suppress protein production. After an overnight incubation the cells were harvested resuspended and grown at 37 C. in 2 L of M9 minimal medium containing NHCl 0.2 glycerol 100 M aminolevulinic acid ALA Wang et al. 1999181 1211 1219 100 M FeCl 5 mg of thiamine and a vitamin mix Venters et al. 199130 4491 4494 . To synthesize isotopically labeled SyB Cph1 GAF NHCl and glycerol were replaced with N and C isotopically labeled forms respectively. To produce SyB Cph1 GAF that contained either N PCB or C PCB isotopically labeled at all six methyl groups and the CHcarbon located on each propionate side chain attached to unlabeled protein unlabeled ALA in the medium was replaced with 100 M N ALA Medical Isotopes Inc. Pelham N.H. or 1 2 C ALA a gift from Dr. Mario Rivera Kansas State University respectively. In all cases once the ODof the culture reached 0.8 0.9 PCB synthesis was induced by adding 1 mM IPTG. After 2 hrs synthesis of the Cph1 apo proteins was induced by the addition of 0.2 w v arabinose and the cultures were grown overnight at 20 C. All subsequent steps were performed under green safelights.

To purify the various Phy chromoproteins the expressing cells were collected by centrifugation resuspended in 25 ml L of culture in lysis buffer consisting of 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM NaCl 1 mM dithiothreitol 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and a tablet of Complete EDTA free protease inhibitor cocktail Hoffmann La Roche Basel Switzerland and lysed by sonication. NP 40 0.1 v v was then added to the lysates followed by incubation on ice for 30 min agitation at 4 C. for 2 hrs and finally clarified by centrifugation at 16 000 g for 30 min. The resulting supernatant was filtered through a 0.45 M filter Corning Corning N.Y. and dialyzed into extraction wash buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.0 300 mM NaCl 10 v v glycerol 20 mM imidazole 0.05 v v Tween 20 and 1 mM 2 mercaptoethanol overnight at 4 C. as described by Gambetta and Lagarias 2001 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98 10566 10571. The Phy chromoproteins were then purified by nickel chelate affinity chromatography Qiagen Sciences Germantown Md. using the extraction wash buffer plus 300 mM imidazole for elution. The Phy containing eluates were subjected to hydrophobic interaction FPLC using a 1 10 cm phenyl HP column Pharmacia Uppsala Sweden with a 0 to 300 mM ammonium sulfate gradient in 25 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 for elution. Pooled Phy containing fractions for NMR analysis were exchanged and concentrated into 10 mM deuterated Tris HCl pH 8.5 Sigma St. Louis Mo. in 100 HO using an Amicon Ultra 15 filter Millipore Billerica Mass. . C PCB containing samples were exchanged into 10 mM Tris DCl pH 8.5 in 100 DO. This buffer was found to enhance the stability of SyB Cph1 GAF chromoprotein based on the solubility screen of Collins et al. 200460 1674 1678. For all non isotopically labeled Cph1 holo proteins the same protocol was applied except non isotopically labeled reagents were used in the M9 media preparation and the FPLC purification step was omitted.

To test for bilin specificity the various Phy apo proteins were expressed in the pBAD 6H plasmid as above without co expression of the HO and BVR genes from pL PCB. Apo DrBphP PAS GAF PHY C terminally tagged with a 6His sequence was expressed as described by Karniol et al. 2005 392 103 116. The cells were resuspended in 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 100 mM NaCl and 30 mM imidazole and lysed by sonication. The resulting extracts were clarified by centrifugation as above and then mixed with 100 M of either PCB or BV for 2 hrs at 4 C. The polypeptides were then purified by nickel chelate affinity chromatography using 300 mM imidazole for elution. Presence of the covalently bound bilin was assayed by zinc induced fluorescence of the chromoproteins following SDS PAGE Bhoo et al. 2001414 776 779 . PCB was purified from lyophilized as described Scheer 1984 In Smith et al. ed. pp. 227 256 Academic Press New York but without the final HPLC step. Purified BV was obtained from Frontier Scientific Logan Utah .

Size exclusion chromatography SEC was performed by FPLC using a 24 ml Superose 6 S6 column GE Healthcare Pittsburgh Pa. . The chromoproteins 100 l of a 5 mg ml sample were first purified through the phenyl HP step dissolved in 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 and 200 mM NaCl and either loaded onto the column as Pr or immediately following saturating irradiation of the sample with red light 630 nm . Absorption spectra were recorded before and after SEC to verify that the chromoproteins remained enriched in the desired states Pr or Pfr .

Absorption spectra were measured with a PerkinElmer Lambda 650 UVN is Spectrometer PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. with the samples dissolved in 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 . Photoconversions between Pr and Pfr by red and far red light were achieved with white light filtered through appropriate interference filters Andover Corp. Salem N.H. 630 nm and 690 nm filters respectively for SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 and 690 nm and 730 nm filters respectively for Syn Cph1. Thermostability was measured in the dark for Pr samples absorbance of the Pr absorption maximum was adjusted to 1.5 dissolved in 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 . After heating for 20 minutes at the appropriate temperature the samples were clarified by centrifugation at 16 000 g and the amounts of soluble chromoproteins remaining were measured spectrophotometrically. Rates of Pr Pfr photoconversion and Pfr Pr dark reversion were measured spectrophotometrically using the absorbance of the samples at 704 nm to determine the amount of Pfr generated or lost respectively.

Fluorescence excitation and emission spectra were recorded with a QuantaMaster Model C 60 2000 spectrofluorimeter Photon Technologies International Birmingham N.J. . Chromoprotein concentrations were adjusted to have an absorbance of 0.6 for the Pr absorbance maximum. Emission spectra were recorded during an excitation at 360 nm. Excitation spectra were recorded by measuring emission at the peak wavelength 646 nm to 664 nm depending on the sample .

The photoproducts were accumulated by irradiating the samples for a few minutes at room temperature. These raw RR spectra for Pfr included substantial contributions from residual Pr which was subtracted using the characteristic RR bands of Pr as a reference. Further RR experimental details have been described previously Wagner et al. 2008283 12212 12226 Kneip et al. 199938 15185 15192 .

Isotopically labeled forms of SyB Cph1 GAF assembled with PCB 2 mM were dissolved in 93 HO 7 DO 10 mM deuterated Tris HCl pH 8.5 and 0.15 mM NaNand placed in a 280 l Shigemi microcell. Prior to NMR analysis the tube was heated to 65 C. for 10 min to inactivate contaminating thermo sensitive proteases that slowly compromised the sample. NMR spectra were collected at 25 C. using an 800 MHz H frequency Varian INOVA spectrometer Varian Inc. Palo Alto Calif. equipped with a cryogenic probe. Samples with a high proportion of Pfr were obtained by irradiating the microcell solution with saturating red light 630 nm this photoequilibrium was maintained throughout NMR data acquisition by continuous irradiation of the microcell with a low fluence rate of red light provided by a 100 mW 620 nm light emitting diode LED LiteON LED Mouser Electronics Mansfield Tex. channeled into the glass plunger by a fiber optic cable. Photoconversion of Pfr back to Pr was completed by irradiating the microcell with saturating far red light 690 nm .

A set of phytochromes with novel structures and or photochemical properties has been discovered. The novel DNA sequences originated from two newly discovered cyanobacterial species designated sp. Octopus Spring OS A and sp. Octopus Spring OS B The Institute for Genomic Research TIGR Rockville Md. . Apparent Phy homologs in these species included those closely related to Phys as well as possible orthologs of abbreviated as Syn Cph2 Wu and Lagarias 200039 13487 13495 Park et al. 200039 10840 10847 suggesting that these cyanobacteria employ an array of bilin containing photoreceptors for their complex light behaviors.

Two Phy genes designated here as SyA Cph1 TIGR locus number CYA 2779 and SyB Cph1 TIGR locus number CYB 2465 are particularly notable for encoding proteins with GAF and PHY domain arrangements near their N termini. The organization of the SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 operons and domain architectures of the encoded proteins is shown in . The Syn Cph1 operon from PCC6803 is included for comparison. Cph1 coding regions are shown in black boxes. Other coding regions within the operons and nearby separate genes are shown in grey and white boxes respectively. Positions of the conserved RIT and DIP motifs the GAF cysteine C that binds PCB the conserved cysteine in GAF2 and the conserved histidine H that is the likely phospho acceptor site in the HK domain are indicated. Shown in is an alignment of GAF PHY modules in SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 with representatives from the Phy superfamily. Identical and similar amino acids are shown in black and gray boxes respectively. Dots denote gaps. The RIT and DIP motifs are indicated by open and black rectangles respectively and the PCB binding cysteine by the arrowhead. Asterisks identify conserved amino acids shown to be photochemically important in other Phys Hahn et al. 2006 FEBS J. 273 1415 1429 Fischer and Lagarias 2004101 17334 17339 von Stetten et al. 2007282 2116 2123 . The GAF lasso loop sequence that forms part of the figure of eight knot in DrBphP is defined by the bracket. The GAF and PHY domains are shown by the solid and dashed lines respectively. Sequences in the alignment include those from SyA Cph1 YP 476144 SyB Cph1 YP 478662 related Cphs from 73102 ZP 00111485 sp. PCC8106 ZP 01618934 ABW26890 and YP 324761 DrBphP INP 285374 sp. PCC6803 Cph1 NP 442237 and PhyA AAC33219 . The amino acid numbering is based on the SyB Cph1 sequence. Each of the GAF domains includes i the positionally conserved cysteine Cys 138 in both used by Cphs to covalently bind PCB ii the conserved aspartic acid Asp 86 in SyB Cph1 within the invariant DIP motif that helps coordinate the pyrrole water associated with the bilin and iii a set of conserved similar residues within the GAF domain that have been shown to be important for bilin ligation for example Arg 133 His 139 and His 169 in SyB Cph1 and Pr Pfr phototransformation for example Tyr 54 Asp 86 Phe 82 Phe 95 Tyr 142 and His 169 in SyB Cph1 in other Phys strongly suggesting that these Cphs assemble with linear bilins and become red far red photochromic.

A novel structural feature that is most likely common to the CBD of canonical Phys is a figure of eight knot that helps tether the PAS and GAF domains. The 33 amino acid loop sequence that forms the knot lasso is present within the GAF domains of both SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 . Likewise amino acid sequence alignments revealed strong conservation within the PHY domains of both suggesting that this domain also contributes to the formation and stability of Pfr. HK domains are also present at their C termini. Included within the HK sequence are recognizable H N D F and G boxes present in typical HKs with the H Box containing the positionally conserved histidine His 608 expected to participate in phosphotransfer. The GAF domains contain CH motifs. The cysteine in the first GAF domain is expected to bind PCB via a thioether linkage. It is not yet clear if the cysteine in the second GAF domain GAF2 can also bind bilins.

Phys from proteobacteria and fungi typically connect the HK domain directly to the PHY domain whereas higher plant Phys have an intervening region embedded with two PAS domains. In contrast SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 contain a second predicted GAF domain GAF2 after the PHY domain and . The GAF2 sequences lack the DIP motif the lasso loop sequence and a number of other conserved residues present in the canonical GAF domain of Phys see above but do contain a cysteine Cys 516 in SyB Cph1 within a Cys His Leu motif that could interact with bilins covalently . Several other Phys from cyanobacteria e.g. Cph2 also contain a similar GAF domain distal to the PHY domain. In the case of Cph2 this second GAF sequence can bind bilins at least in vitro Wu and Lagarias 200039 13487 13495 suggesting that SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 contain two functioning bilin lyase domains.

A striking feature of the SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 architectures is the clear absence of the N terminal PAS domain found in most bona fide Phys identified thus far Vierstra and Karniol 2005 In Briggs and Spudich eds. Wiley VCH Press Weinheim Germany pp 171 196 . Instead both amino acid sequences begin immediately at the start of the first GAF domain . Although the contribution s of the PAS domain to Phy function are not yet clear crystal structures reveal that it is in loose contact with the GAF domain through electrostatic interactions between the knot interface and the propionate side chain of the B pyrrole ring. Additional BLAST searches of the GenBank database revealed a small collection of other cyanobacterial Phys with similar domain architectures including Cph sequences from and and . Like SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 these PAS less Phys contain one or two additional GAF domains downstream of the PHY domain and a 12 amino acid conserved sequence RITX Q R IR Q R SLEL SEQ ID NO 43 or RIT motif where X is any amino acid at the N terminal end of the first GAF domain residues 20 31 in SyB Cph1 . The function of the RIT motif is unclear. The corresponding stretch in the DrphP CBD structure forms the 4 helix and 4 5 helix linker domain which comprise part of the three helix bundle that may help sister GAF domains dimerize.

Analysis of the surrounding genomic region revealed that the SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 coding regions are the first part of a two locus operon in sp. OS A and OS B . The immediate 3 open reading frames TIGR locus numbers CYA 2781 and CYB 2484 which are 4 bp downstream or overlap with the Cph1 coding region respectively encode small 130 residues in OS A and 123 residues in OS B highly conserved proteins predicted to contain a Domain of Unknown Function 309 DUF309 . DUF309 sequences can be found in a number of archaeal bacterial fungal algal and higher plant species where they may bind metals via the consensus sequence HXXXEXXW SEQ ID NO 44 or the consensus sequence HXXXEXXY SEQ ID NO 45 . Additional synteny is revealed by the presence of similar TatD homologs located 128 and 215 bp upstream from the SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 coding regions respectively which are predicted to be separate transcriptional units .

Given their potential thermostability and the possibility that the 200 amino acid GAF alone can complete Pr Pfr photoconversion SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 might be advantageous for various physico chemical analyses of Phy type receptors. Full length polypeptides of both bearing a C terminal 6His tag expressed well in but were completely insoluble. Truncated variants of each encompassing just the GAF domain or the GAF domain in combination with the PHY domain expressed well were highly soluble and could be easily purified by nickel chelate affinity chromatography followed by hydrophobic FPLC.

To test for their ability to assemble with bilins purified SyA Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF apo proteins were incubated with PCB or BV in vitro and then assayed for covalent attachment by zinc induced fluorescence of the products following SDS PAGE. shows in vitro assembly of SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 with PCB. Recombinant GAF polypeptides from SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 SyB Cph1 GAF polypeptide where Cys 138 was substituted for an alanine and PAS GAF PHY polypeptides from DrBphP and Syn were incubated with PCB or BV and purified by nickel chelate affinity chromatography. Samples were subjected to SDS PAGE and either assayed for the bound bilin by zinc induced fluorescence Zn or stained for protein with Coomassie Blue Prot . Apo apo protein before incubation with the bilins.

As can be seen in these GAF only constructions like a PAS GAF PHY fragment from the cyanobacterial Phy Cph1 from readily bound PCB but not BV. In contrast a PAS GAF PHY fragment from the bacterio Phy DrBphP bound only BV under identical conditions consistent with its preference for BV as the chromophore. Sequence alignments with other members of the Phy superfamily identified Cys 138 as the likely bilin attachment site for SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 . In support a Cys 138 to alanine substitution in SyB Cph1 effectively abrogated PCB ligation .

To scale up SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 chromoprotein production the dual plasmid system of Gambetta and Lagarias was exploited Gambetta and Lagarias 200198 10566 10571 . This system co expresses the apo protein with the HO and BVR enzymes needed to synthesize PCB from heme. shows the UV vis absorption spectra of PCB assembled SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 encompassing only the GAF domain or the GAF PHY region as Pr solid lines or following saturating red light R irradiation mostly Pfr dashed lines . Pr minus Pfr difference spectra with their maxima and minima are shown above. The absorption and difference spectra of PAS GAF and PAS GAF PHY regions of Syn Cph1 assembled with PCB are included for comparison.

Absorption spectra of the resulting in vivo assembled photoreceptors either spanning the GAF PHY region or just the GAF domain resembled typical Phys and were photochromic following red and far red light irradiations . The Pr absorption spectra of the GAF PHY fragments had maxima at 629 nm for the Q bands which were substantially blue shifted relative to the Pr form generated by the PAS GAF PHY or PAS GAF fragments from Syn Cph1 with absorption maxima at 659 nm . Saturating red light irradiations of the GAF PHY fragments from SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 converted most Pr to Pfr with absorption maxima at 704 nm much like Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY . In contrast to truncations of other Phys missing the PHY domain including Syn Cph1 and DrBphP that are poorly photochromic the SyA Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF constructions retained most of their red far red light photoreversibility. Saturating red light transformed a substantial portion of the PCB bound GAF polypeptides to a species resembling Pfr. This photoconversion was more efficient for SyB Cph1 GAF which produced a defined Pfr absorption peak at 689 nm in saturating red light .

SEC has shown that most if not all Phys are dimeric with their binding interface s involving one or more regions including the GAF domain in DrBphP the PAS GAF PHY domain in Syn Cph1 and the C terminal HK and HK related regions in microbial and higher plants Phys. Similar SEC analysis of the GAF and GAF PHY constructions of SyB Cph1 assembled with PCB indicated that the PHY domain helps this chromoprotein dimerize. Whereas the GAF domain alone as Pr behaved as a monomer of 22 kDa consistent with its calculated molecular mass of 23.3 kDa the GAF PHY fragment behaved as a dimer species at 105 kDa nearly twice the size of its calculated mass of 48.4 kDa . Shown in is a size exclusion chromatogram SEC of SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY chromoproteins under non denaturing conditions as Pr or following saturating red light mostly Pfr . Arrowheads indicate the elution positions of standards thyroglobulin 608 kDa gamma globulin 158 kDa ovalbumin 45 kDa myglobulin 17 kDa and biotin 1.4 kDa . The predicted molecular masses of monomeric SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY polypeptides are 23.3 kDa and 48.4 kDa respectively while the apparent molecular masses measured by SEC are 22 and 106 kDa respectively. The SEC elution profiles of both GAF and GAF PHY constructions of SyB Cph1 were indistinguishable following exposure to saturating red light suggesting that their overall shapes and dimerization status are not dramatically altered upon photoconversion to Pfr .

The GAF constructions of SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 had denaturation temperatures temperature where 50 of the protein becomes insoluble of 76 C. and 83 C. respectively which decreased slightly to 72 C. and 76 C. respectively upon inclusion of the PHY domain . By contrast the PAS GAF and PAS GAF PHY chromoproteins from Syn Cph1 which were derived from the mesophilic PCC6803 species denatured at 54 C. and 53 C. respectively .

Thermostable enzymes typically work more efficiently at higher temperatures with optimal performance often matching the preferred growth temperature of the host organism. This expectation may also hold true for the Pr Pfr interconversion of SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1. Both the GAF and GAF PHY constructions of SyB Cph1 were more efficient at Pr Pfr photoconversion at 65 C. versus 23 C. using the same fluence rate of red light initial rates increased by 3 and 2 fold respectively and . Shown in is the effect of temperature 23 C. and 65 C. on Pr Pfr photoconversion by saturating red light and Pfr Pr dark reversion of SyB Cph1 GAF PHY assembled with PCB. Since the primary photochemical event is temperature independent much of this increased rate should reflect accelerated thermal relaxation steps from the lumi R intermediate to Pfr. Subsequent Pfr Pr thermal reversion of the GAF chromoprotein was also faster at 65 C. versus 23 C. with the initial rate increased by 9 fold at the higher temperature . Surprisingly little thermal reversion occurred at 23 C. for the GAF PHY construction of SyB Cph1 even after 12 hrs of dark incubation suggesting that even lower temperatures might effectively stabilize the Pfr form of this fragment.

The discovery of a set of SyB Cph1 mutants that emit red fluorescence may have utility in various cell biological and molecular assays as small portable fluorescent tags. In particular the SyB Cph1 PAS GAF D86H mutant emits strong fluorescence and when directly compared was significantly brighter than the previously reported Y176H mutant generated with the PAS GAF PHY fragments of Cph1 .

Fluorescence characteristics of the tyrosine and aspartic acid substitutions in Syn Cph1 and SyB Cph1 are shown in which indicates various UV irradiated Cph1 C and CYB B chromoprotein constructs with wild type Asp H D or Tyr H Y mutations within their respective DrBphP coordinates of Asp207 and Tyr176. All samples were adjusted to have a 0.6 absorbance at the Pr absorption maximum. Top panels in show purified solutions in white light WL and upon irradiation with UV light. Bottom spectra in show fluorescence excitation dashed lines and emission spectra solid lines of the chromoprotein samples shown in panel A. Excitation and emission maxima are indicated. CYB is thermostable . In particular CG refers to cph1 PAS GAF CGY refers to cph1 PAS GAF with a Tyr His mutation CGD refers to cph1 PAS GAF with a Asp His mutation BG refers to CYB GAF BGY refers to CYB GAF with a Tyr His mutation BGD refers to CYB GAF with a Asp His mutation CP refers to cph1 PAS GAF PHY CPY refers to cph1 PAS GAF PHY with a Tyr His mutation CPD refers to cph1 PAS GAF PHY with a Asp H mutation BP refers to CYB GAF PHY BPY refers to CYB GAF PHY with a Tyr His mutation and BPD refers to CYB GAF PHY with a Asp His mutation . As shown in the Asp207 His207 mutation is more fluorescent than the Tyr176 His176 mutation. In addition there was greater amount of fluorescent emission with CYB especially the CYB GAF PHY construct harboring the Asp His mutation bottom graph BPD . The D86H mutant retains its red fluorescence in a monomeric truncation that encompasses only the 200 amino acid GAF domain thus making this fluorophore even smaller than the commonly used green fluorescent protein GFP . Advantages over other fluorophores such as GFP include i its remarkable thermostability ii the large separation of the electronically excited state Soret transition at 380 nm from the emitting state 650 nm which would minimize light contamination and iii the ability to modify fluorescence in both time and space by controlling PCB or any other adduct which emits fluorescence as a result of binding the apoprotein availability Miller et al. 2006103 11136 11141 . The D86H mutant may also be excited in the first electronic transition with orange light to produce an identical emission peak thus circumventing potential damages effects induced by UV or blue light excitation.

Random and structurally guided mutagenesis of bacterial Phys has identified a number of conserved residues that interfere with the photoinduced Pr Pfr conversion. As examples replacement of Tyr 176 in Syn Cph1 with a histidine generates a highly red fluorescent chromoprotein that cannot photoconvert to Pfr 25 46 while various substitutions of Asp 207 e.g. D207H variant block Pr Pfr photoconversion in DrBphP Wagner et al. 2008283 12212 12226 . To further compare the binding pocket of these PAS less Phys relative to more typical Phys analogous mutations Y54H and D86H were introduced into the GAF and GAF PHY constructions of SyB Cph1.

Both sets of Y54H and D86H variants in SyB Cph1 were soluble retained their ability to bind PCB and generated near normal absorption spectra for the Pr state with Q band maxima at or near 630 nm in agreement with prior studies with other Phys showing that these residues do not significantly affect Pr assembly. However absorption spectra recorded after red light irradiation revealed substantial photochemical defects in the variants . For the SyB Cph1 GAF chromoprotein both substitutions reduced the amount of Pfr accumulation at 689 nm but the reduction was not accompanied by a concomitant loss in the Pr peak suggesting that photoconversion in these constructs might not actually have been lost.

In contrast while only a minor effect on Pfr accumulation was evident in the SyB Cph1 GAF PHY construction bearing the Y54H substitution a strong block in photoconversion was evident for the D86H substitution. The Pr absorption spectrum of this variant was only slightly changed by saturating red light and the small loss of absorbance at 630 nm that was observed was not associated with a concomitant increase in absorption in the far red wavelength region for Pfr indicating that most Pr Pfr photoconversion was inhibited.

Similar photochromic defects were evident in comparable substitutions of Syn Cph1 both PAS GAF and PAS GAF PHY truncations but the effects were stronger with the tyrosine variants . In agreement with previous studies Fischer and Lagarias 2004101 17334 17339 the Y176H variant introduced into both Syn Cph1 constructions strongly compromised Pr Pfr photoconversion with saturating red light generating little or no Pfr. By contrast the absorption spectrum of the Syn Cph1 PAS GAF D207H variant after treatment with saturating red light produced a similar bleached photoproduct to its wild type counterpart. The Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY D207H mutant also retained its ability to photoconvert in red light but instead of generating the far red light absorbing Pfr like state it transformed to an unexpected blue shifted species with a well defined absorption maximum at 592 nm.

When the fluorescent properties of the set of SyB Cph1 and Syn Cph1 variants were analyzed similar differential defects were observed that roughly paralleled the effects of the variants on Pr Pfr photoconversion . In accord with previous studies introduction of the Y176H mutation into either the PAS GAF or PAS GAF PHY constructions of Syn Cph1 generated red fluorescent chromoproteins with strong emission maxima at 662 nm. The PAS GAF PHY Y176H variant was approximately three times more fluorescent than the equivalent PAS GAF construction. Neither the wild type chromoproteins nor constructions bearing the D207H mutation were fluorescent.

The opposite trend existed for SyB Cph1 even though the overall fluorescence yield was much greater for this Phy . The wild type GAF and GAF PHY constructions of SyB Cph1 and the corresponding Y54H substitutions displayed moderate fluorescence with emission maxima at 646 654 nm. In contrast the D86H substitutions were substantially more fluorescent with the SyB Cph1 GAF PHY D86H variant showing especially strong fluorescence output. Excitation maxima were evident at 357 379 591 and 620 nm with a single emission peak at 650 nm. By comparing fluorescence emission using equivalent amounts of chromoprotein based on equal absorbance of the Pr Q band the SyB Cph1 GAF PHY D86H chromoprotein was 3.5 times more fluorescent than the comparable chromoprotein without the PHY domain and was 5 times more fluorescent when compared to the Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY Y176H chromoprotein.

The sequence homology within the GAF domains of SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 relative to more typical Phys strongly suggested that these PAS less Phys adopt similar bilin geometry and employ a similar reaction mechanism to generate Pfr from Pr including the use of a deprotonation reprotonation cycle during the relaxation steps from the initial intermediate photoproduct Lumi R to Pfr. To help support these possibilities RR spectroscopy was employed to assess bilin conformation and protonation state. In particular RR bands in the region between 1500 and 1700 cmcan i help predict the methine bridge configurations and conformations i.e. ZIE and synlanti geometries ii reveal the protonation state of the pyrrole nitrogens in the Pr and Pfr states and iii detect the accumulation of transformation intermediates if complete photoconversion stalls e.g. deprotonated Meta Rintermediate . Moreover by comparing the RR spectra of the GAF and GAF PHY constructions it was possible to define the importance of the PHY domain during Pr Pfr photoconversion for these thermostable PAS less Phys.

As shown in the RR spectra of the Pr state of SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY displayed very similar overall vibrational band patterns. Shown in is a Resonance Raman RR spectra of the Pr and Pfr forms of the GAF and GAF PHY fragments of SyB Cph1 as compared to the PAS GAF PHY fragment from Syn Cph1. RR spectra between 600 and 1800 cmfor Pr left panel and following saturating irradiation with red light Pfr right panel were measured in the presence of HO black lines or DO grey lines . The positions of the pyrrole N H ip modes are marked by the arrows. RR spectra for Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY were taken from Remberg et al. 199736 13389 13395. These data agreed with previous studies demonstrating that the PHY domain has little impact on Pr absorption and bilin geometry. In particular RR bands attributed to the methine bridge geometry of PCB 1600 1650 cm and subtle details of the bilin structure 600 900 cm were identical or very similar for SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY and . The N H in plane bending ip mode of pyrrole rings B and C in Pr assigned based on its disappearance in DO was at nearly the same position for both chromoproteins 1573 versus 1575 cm . These data imply that PCB retained its protonation cationic state and that its hydrogen bond interactions with the protein environment were for the most part unaffected by removal of the PHY domain. Only subtle differences were evident in the region between 1400 and 1500 cm which could reflect slightly greater contributions from protein Raman bands in the SyB Cph1 GAF PHY preparations .

The RR spectra of the Pr state of SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY differed from that obtained with Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY suggesting that subtle differences in bilin geometry exist between the two Cph classes. The marker band region for protonated bilins 1600 1650 cm is usually dominated by two species originating from the C C stretching modes of the ring A B and C D methine bridges these can be seen as a prominent band 1630 cm and a shoulder 1649 cm in the RR spectrum of Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY . However for SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY the 1630 cmband seems to be upshifted to nearly coincide with the higher frequency mode thus creating a single symmetric band at 1645 cm . This shift most likely reflects a conformational difference at the C D bridge as compared to Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY . This structural difference may also affect hydrogen bonding of the ring C N H group as indicated by the 7 cmhigher ip frequency of the N H group for SyB Cph1 GAF PHY 1575 cm compared to Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY 1568 cm . In contrast RR spectra provide no indication for structural differences at the A B and B C methine bridges since the corresponding stretching bands at 1649 cm A B and 1609 cm B C were largely unchanged in SyB Cph1 GAF PHY versus Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY .

Differences in absorption spectra of SyB Cph1 GAF and SyB Cph1 GAF PHY following red light suggested that the GAF only chromoprotein is not fully competent in forming Pfr . However in contrast to other bacterial Phys that lack the PHY domain RR spectra revealed the SyB Cph1 GAF fragment does not arrest in a Meta R like intermediate upon red light irradiation. Instead several signature RR bands of the SyB Cph1 GAF photoconversion product were consistent with the accumulation of Pfr. Included were a drastic downshift of the C D methine bridge stretching from 1645 cmin Pr to 1613 cmand the rings B and C N H ip mode at 1554 cmthat is characteristic of the protonated Pfr state . Only the shoulder at 1595 cmon the low frequency side of the prominent 1608 cmpeak in the RR spectrum of the Pfr like state of SyB Cph1 GAF is reminiscent of a Meta Rc like species . However this band was not observed in DO leaving its assignment ambiguous.

The most significant difference in the RR spectra of the photoconversion products between the GAF and GAF PHY constructions of SyB Cph1 was a large intensity reduction in the band at 813 cm . This band originates from the C H out of plane mode of the C D methine bridge its high RR intensity which is a typical feature of the Pfr chromophore may reflect torsion of the C D methine bridge. Furthermore the A B stretching cannot be identified as a distinct peak or shoulder in SyB Cph1 GAF but may overlap with the dominant 1613 cmband. Instead the RR spectra of the Pfr states for SyB Cph1 GAF PHY and Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY display two bands at 1620 and 1640 cmwhich both are possible candidates for the A B stretching pointing to a conformational heterogeneity at the A B methine bridge. These differences suggest that the PHY domain subtly affects the chromophore protein architecture of SyB Cph1 in the Pfr state with respect to the structural details of the A B and C D methine bridges.

The fact that the 200 amino acid GAF domain of SyB Cph1 retains its bilin lyase activity and most of its red far red photochromicity combined with its monomeric state indicated that this fragment could help visualize by NMR spectroscopy global movements of a Phy chromophore and its binding pocket during phototransformation. Using the dual expression system Gambetta and Lagarias 200198 10566 10571 SyB Cph1 GAF holo proteins were synthesized and assembled in which either PCB or the polypeptide were labeled individually with N and or C. Incorporation of isotopically labeled PCB into unlabeled protein was accomplished by replacing the bilin precursor ALA added in excess to the growth medium with either N or C labeled derivatives. Incorporation of N and C into the polypeptide was achieved by replacing NHCl and glycerol in the medium with N and C labeled counterparts respectively together with an excess of unlabeled ALA.

Prior one dimensional N NMR analysis of Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY assembled with C N PCB in vitro detected all four pyrrole ring nitrogens in the Pr conformer whose peaks split into eight peaks upon red light irradiation implying that all four chromophore nitrogens change their geometry chemical environment during Pr Pfr photoconversion. A similar one dimensional NMR spectrum was obtained here for the Pr conformer of SyB Cph1 GAF assembled with uniformly labeled N PCB . Four distinct peaks were evident in the N spectrum representing each of the four pyrrole nitrogens. That these peaks were below 180 ppm were consistent with all of these nitrogens being protonated at neutral pH. Interestingly for Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY two of these peaks overlapped indicative of similar chemical environments whereas in SyB Cph1 they were more uniformly resolved indicative of more distinct chemical environments .

Three of the four one dimensional N NMR peaks 131 155 and 160 ppm from SyB Cph1 GAF were unaffected by red light irradiation implying that the environments of these pyrrole nitrogens do not change upon photoconversion to Pfr . A potential decrease in signal was observed for the fourth N peak at 144 ppm coincident with the appearance of a new N peak at 142 ppm suggesting that this pyrrole nitrogen experiences a new environment upon Pr Pfr photoconversion. Surprisingly two dimensional H N HSQC of N PCB labeled SyB Cph1 GAF as Pr revealed only a single H N correlation peak at 131 ppm which did not change position or intensity upon red light exposure inset . This failure to detect additional H N correlation peaks implied that that the protons associated with three of the four pyrrole nitrogens readily exchange with the solvent.

To examine movements of the PCB carbons in SyB Cph1 GAF 1 2 C ALA was used as the PCB precursor to label all six methyl groups and two methylenes present in the B and C ring propionate side chains . Two dimensional NMRH C HSQC spectra with the sample as Pr detected peaks for the expected six methyl groups . However there were no peaks for the two propionate CHmethylene groups suggesting that they are highly mobile in the Pr conformation. The positions of the H C peaks for the methyl groups as Pr were similar to those described by Strauss et al. 2005 Biochemistry 44 8244 8250 for Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY . Taken together with similar RR spectra it appears that the Pr conformer of SyB Cph1 has bilin geometry similar to that for Syn Cph1 even without the PAS domain. Upon saturating red light irradiation several new peaks appeared in the H C HSQC spectra of C PCB SyB Cph1 GAF that can be readily seen by overlaying this spectrum with that for Pr . These new peaks likely reflect movement of several PCB methyl groups to new chemical environments during Pr Pfr photoconversion.

Two Dimensional NMR Analysis of N C Labeled SyB CPh1 GAF Reveals Global Movement in the GAF Domain During Photoconversion.

To study global movements of the GAF domain polypeptide during Pr Pfr photoconversion N and C double labeled SyB Cph1 GAF chromoprotein were synthesized. shows two dimensional H N HSQC NMR spectra of C N SyB Cph1 GAF assembled with PCB. NMR data were collected with four scans over a 20 minute period with 2 mM N C SyB Cph1 GAF dissolved in 7 DO 10 mM Tris HCl pH 8.5 . Left panel two dimensional NMR spectrum of Pr blue overlaid on that obtained during continuous red light irradiation Pfr red . Right panel two dimensional NMR spectrum of Pr overlaid on that obtained for a sample exposed to saturating red light Pfr followed by saturating far red light regenerated Pr . The insets are magnifications of regions in the H 15N HSQC spectra that included a number of peaks that substantially change position upon Pfr formation.

Presumably due to its stability and small size 208 amino acids this sample generated highly resolved two dimensional H 15N HSQC spectra as Pr. . The number of detected H 15N peaks was reasonably close to the expected number generated from the predicted 208 amino acid 6His tagged SyB Cph1 GAF chromoprotein with the addition of some observable side chain resonances.

When the N C SyB Cph1 GAF sample was photoconverted to Pfr by saturating red light and then maintained in this photoequilibrium during data collection by continuous red light irradiation a remarkably distinct H N HSQC spectrum was captured. When overlaid with the original Pr plot the two dimensional NMR Pr Pfr spectrum not only contained the same H N peaks observed with Pr thus reflecting residual Pr at photoequilibrium but also contained numerous new H N peaks that reflected the movement of various amide groups specific to Pfr . Close inspection of the NMR data suggested that the environment of as much as 50 of the amides changed significantly during Pr to Pfr photoconversion. Moreover when the red light irradiated samples were converted back to Pr either by extended darkness or by subsequent irradiation with saturating far red light all Pfr associated peaks returned back to their original Pr positions . This photoreversibility demonstrated that the new peaks observed after red light irradiation were not generated by denaturation or photobleaching of the sample but likely reflected the signature photochromicity of Phys. This measurement thus represents the first assessment of the global movements of a Phy CBD during Pr Pfr photoconversion in solution and indicates that the conformations of the GAF domain in the Pr and Pfr conformers differ more substantially than previously anticipated.

The structural resolution of both Pr and Pfr will be essential to fully understand how Phys function at the atomic level. While the Pr structures of two CBDs have recently been determined using x ray crystallography Wagner et al. 2007282 12298 12309 those for Pfr have not yet been solved for a variety of technical reasons. Crystallization of the Pfr conformer has been challenged by substantial contamination of Pr even under saturating red light and the instability of Pfr once formed which for most Phys will revert thermally back to Pr. Generating Pfr by irradiating diffraction quality Pr crystals with red light has also failed thus far. The crystals have either failed to photoconvert or dissolved implying that the crystal lattice containing Pr cannot accommodate the structural rearrangements that occur during Pr Pfr photoconversion. Exploiting naturally occurring Phys that prefer Pfr as the most stable state is an alternative for crystallizations.

Solving the solution structure of Pfr using NMR is an attractive alternative given the ability of this approach to resolve chemical shifts generated solely from Pfr by subtracting the NMR spectrum generated with Pr from that obtained after saturating red light irradiation. NMR approaches work best if the size of the protein complex in solution is below 35 kDa. Unfortunately the Phy CBDs studied to date exceed this size range needing at least the 30 kDa PAS GAF fragment to generate the Meta Rc state from Pr and at least the 60 kDa PAS GAF PHY fragment for full photoconversion. These sizes are further increased by dimerization thus putting most previously described Phys outside the acceptable size range required for conventional NMR spectroscopy techniques.

The two thermostable Cphs described herein SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 belong to a new sub class of Phys with unique features that are particularly amenable to NMR studies. Like canonical Phys SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 contain a GAF domain that binds the bilin followed by a PHY domain considered essential for proper Phy photochemistry and end with an HK domain similar to those found in many two component signaling receptors. The GAF domains of both contain all of the strongly conserved amino acids shown to be important for bilin binding and Pr Pfr photoconversion. SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 both have a cysteine at position 138 which like others within the Cph family appears to serve as the bilin linkage site. As expected this pair binds PCB effectively to generate red far red light photochromic photoreceptors. Unfortunately given the insolubility of the full length recombinant polypeptides it is not yet known how Pr Pfr photoconversion affects the phosphotransferase activity of the appended HK domain.

Conservation of the GAF domain is further supported by the analysis of site directed mutants affecting Tyr 54 and Asp 86 in SyB Cph1 which have been shown to hold key functional roles in other Phys. Like similar mutations in Syn Cph1 and DrBphP replacement of these residues does not affect bilin binding and formation of Pr but can substantially affect photoconversion to Pfr. The D86H chromoproteins in particular are substantially blocked in Pr Pfr photoconversion and are highly red fluorescent. The effect of the Y54H and D86H mutations contrasts those for Syn Cph1 in which the comparable Y176His strongly fluorescent while the D207H mutant is poorly fluorescent Fischer and Lagarias 2004101 17334 17339 Fischer et al. 200544 15203 15215 .

One remarkable feature of SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 is that they belong to a previously unknown subfamily of Phys present in at least several cyanobacteria including mesophiles that lack the N terminal PAS domain. Members of this family can also be distinguished from other Cphs by a strongly conserved RIT motif at the beginning of the GAF domain. While the function s of the PAS domain in Phy signaling are not yet clear its presence in most Phys studied to date across a wide range of species including bacteria cyanobacteria fungi and plants has implied that it serves an essential function.

Three dimensional structures of the CBD revealed that the PAS domain is tethered to the adjacent GAF domain by a figure of eight knot created by threading the residues N terminal to the PAS domain through a lasso loop between 9 and 7 of the GAF domain based on the DrBphP CBD structure . The resulting anti parallel three helix bundle also contacts the B ring propionate acid side chain of the bilin thus connecting the PAS domain indirectly to the chromophore. Strikingly even though the PAS domain is absent in this PAS less RIT Cph subfamily the GAF domain has retained the extra sequence that forms the lasso loop and several conserved residues within that are central to the knot core e.g. Ile 113 Leu 127 and Arg 133 in SyB Cph1 .

In addition to the RIT subclass other PAS less Phys have been reported including Cph2. The functions of Syn Cph2 are not known but it has been suggested that it participates in blue light sensing. Like SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 Syn Cph2 can bind PCB covalently in vitro and become red far red light photochromic with Pr and Pfr absorption maxima at 645 and 690 nm respectively. Similarly Syn Cph2 also contains a second GAF domain downstream of the PHY domain this GAF2 sequence can bind PCB when expressed alone but the resulting chromoprotein is not red far red photochromic. By inference it is possible that SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 can incorporate two bilin groups simultaneously.

Regardless of its function it is clear that the PAS domain is not essential for photochromicity. Both SyA Cph1 and SyB Cph1 constructions containing only the 200 amino acid GAF domain covalently assemble with PCB to generate Pr with absorption spectra close to those obtained with PAS containing fragments from Cph1. The only substantive difference was a blue shift of the Pr absorption maximum of the SyB Cph1 constructions 630 nm relative to Syn Cph1 constructions 659 nm . In contrast to several other Phys Karniol et al. 2005392 103 116 Mroginski et al. 2007 40 258 266 SyB Cph1 and likely SyA Cph1 also appears less dependent on the PHY domain for full photoconversion to Pfr. Absorption RR and NMR spectroscopy indicate that most of the SyB Cph1 GAF truncation photoconverts to the protonated Pfr type state upon red light irradiation with only slight modifications of its spectral properties for example 15 nm blue shift of Pfr absorption maximum . Combined with its monomeric size the SyB Cph1 GAF fragment is well within the acceptable size range for NMR analysis of Pfr.

Another important feature of these Phys is their remarkable heat stability being capable of withstanding temperatures above 70 C. NMR data collection was facilitated by the ability to sterilize the recombinant photoreceptors against contaminating proteases simply by heating the preparations to 65 C. before use. These sterilized preparations were surprisingly stable both in terms of solubility and photochemistry and easily survived long term three dimensional data collection. This thermostability was also reflected by its Pr Pfr photoconversion and Pfr Pr dark reversion kinetics which are both faster at high temperatures. Taken together these Phys might rapidly interconvert between Pr and Pfr when the host OS A and OS B organisms are grown in their natural daylight environment.

SyB Cph1 GAF can be easily labeled isotopically for NMR analyses. By either introducing N and or C isotopes into amino acids or feeding the N or C labeled heme precursor ALA to SyB Cph1 GAF expressing cells it was possible to independently introduce isotopes into the polypeptide and PCB moieties respectively. The resulting preparations generated two dimensional NMR spectra with sufficient clarity to discern peaks associated with Pfr from those associated with Pr.

Initial NMR analyses confirmed the utility of SyB Cph1 GAF preparations for structural studies. One dimensional NMR spectra of N PCB labeled preparations in the Pr state detected all four of the pyrrole ring nitrogens . Surprisingly only one of these nitrogens 144 ppm apparently changed its chemical environment after red light irradiation. Such spectra not only confirmed RR data that PCB is protonated cationic as Pfr for this GAF domain only fragment but implied that the environment position of three of the four pyrrole N H groups change little during Pr Pfr photoconversion. H N HSQC spectra both before and after red light irradiation detected only a single H 13N chemical shift at 131 ppm further suggesting that one of the four bound protons is tightly held and exchanges slowly with the solvent whereas the remaining three protons readily mix with the surrounding water.

Prior RR ultrafast and mid infrared and NMR spectroscopic studies with a variety of Phys including Cph1 have suggested that the B and C pyrrole rings move little during photoconversion with most of the movement involving rings A and D. Contrary to the expected large movements of the D ring following the Z to E double bond isomerization of the C15 C16 methine linker it has been proposed further that the A ring undergoes the more pronounced conformational changes potentially via a Zsyn to Zanti rotation around the C Cmethine bridge between rings A and B. The N and C NMR data with SyB Cph1 GAF are consistent with these interpretations. The high resolution crystal structure of DrBphP assembled with BV showed that the pyrrole nitrogens present in the A C rings are held in a ZZsyn syn configuration as Pr and hydrogen bond with the centrally positioned pyrrole water see whereas the D ring N H group is contorted 44 out of plane in a Zanti configuration and held in place by a second hydrogen bond network involving His 290 and water. Assuming this configuration holds true for SyB Cph1 assembled with PCB and not wanting to be bound by the following theory it is possible that the exchangeable protons detected at 160 156 and 144 ppm are all bound to the A C rings. This assignment is consistent with the RR data which unambiguously show that the pyrrole rings B and C are protonated with the protons rapidly exchanging with the solvent. The free exchange of the ring A C protons with the solvent is also plausible in view of the deprotonation protonation cycle of the chromophore during Pr Pfr photoconversion.

Only one of the exchangeable protons in SyB Cph1 GAF changed environment location upon photoconversion to Pfr. It appeared in the one dimensional N NMR spectra as a peak at 144 ppm which appeared to diminish in height during red light irradiation concomitant with the appearance of a new peak at 142 ppm. Assuming that the B and C rings are in similar chemical environments and are more rigidly held via their propionate side chains then the moving pyrrole ring is best assigned to the A ring. In support Rohmer et al. 2006110 20580 20585 tentatively assigned a similar N chemical shift which moved from 146.8 ppm to 142.8 ppm during photoconversion to the A ring nitrogen of Cph1 PAS GAF PHY fragment. The remaining slowly exchangeable proton nitrogen in SyB Cph1 GAF which had a cross peak at 131 ppm 15N chemical shift would then be assigned by default to the D ring pyrrole N H group. The absence of additional H N cross peaks in the H N HSQC Pr Pfr spectra overlay further implied that the amide of this ring does not change upon photoconversion see inset .

Examination of SyB Cph1 GAF bearing C PCB by H C HSQC detected all six predicted methyl groups and revealed that four of the six experience a significantly different environment after red light irradiation . Such movements closely parallel those obtained by Strauss et al. 2005 44 8244 8250 with Syn Cph1 PAS GAF PHY who showed that all but one of the six methyl groups acquire alternate peaks with red light saturation. The peak of one methyl in particular 15.5 ppm for SyB Cph1 GAF moved a considerable distance during photoconversion implying that it encounters a radically different chemical environment as Pfr.

While several studies have demonstrated that various regions of the Phy polypeptide move during Pr Pfr phototransformation their exact motions remain to be determined. The small size and thermostability of the SyB Cph1 GAF truncation coupled with its ability to effectively complete the Pr Pfr photocycle strongly suggests that this species may help resolve movements in the GAF domain by NMR approaches. Toward this objective SyB Cph1 GAF generates excellent three dimensional NMR spectra using preparations incorporating N and C into the chromophore or polypeptide. Overlays of either H N HSQC or H C HSQC spectra from N C SyB Cph1 GAF samples obtained before and during continuous saturating red light irradiations identified numerous reversible peaks that move substantially . These movements presumably reflect changing chemical environments of specific amino acid associated amides during Pr Pfr photoconversion. Moreover many of these peaks remained well defined as Pfr indicating that the corresponding amides now occupy new and stable environments in this conformer. The large number of unique Pfr peaks implies that the GAF domain by itself undergoes a more robust conformational change during phototransformation than previously appreciated.

It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular devices methodology protocols subjects or reagents described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is limited only by the claims. Other suitable modifications and adaptations of a variety of conditions and parameters obvious to those skilled in the art of genetics molecular biology and biochemistry are within the scope of this invention. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

SEQ ID NO 1 is the amino acid sequence of the chromophore binding domain of bacterial phytochrome isolated from DrCBD .

SEQ ID NO 3 is the amino acid sequence of the full length SyA Cph1 protein of the bacterium sp. OS Type A.

SEQ ID NO 5 is the amino acid sequence of the full length SyB Cph1 protein of the bacterium sp. OS Type B .

SEQ ID NO 9 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 PAS GAF primer 1 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 10 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 PAS GAF primer 2 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 11 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 PAS GAF primer 1 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 12 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 PAS GAF primer 2 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 13 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF primer 1 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 14 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF primer 2 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 15 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF primer 1 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 16 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF primer 2 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 17 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF primer 1 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 18 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF primer 2 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 19 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF primer 1 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 20 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF primer 2 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 21 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF PHY primer 1 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 22 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF PHY primer 2 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 23 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF PHY primer 1 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 24 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyA Cph1 GAF PHY primer 2 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 25 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF PHY primer 1 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 26 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF PHY primer 2 used in reaction 1.

SEQ ID NO 27 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF PHY primer 1 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 28 is the sequence of an oligonucleotide primer used to construct the Phy truncation SyB Cph1 GAF PHY primer 2 used in reaction 2.

SEQ ID NO 29 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 1 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 D207H 19C is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 30 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 2 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 D207H 18G is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 31 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 1 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 Y176H 21C is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 32 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 2 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 Y176H 21 G is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 33 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 1 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1D86H 19C is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 34 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 2 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1D86H 18G is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 35 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 1 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 Y54H 18C is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 36 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 2 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 Y54H 16G is a mutagenic nucleotide.

SEQ ID NO 37 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 1 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1 C138A 22G and 23C are mutagenic nucleotides.

SEQ ID NO 38 is the sequence of oligonucleotide primer 2 used to construct the Phy truncation Syn Cph1C138A.

SEQ ID NO 39 is the sequence of one oligonucleotide primer used to replace codons with those encoding a 6His tag.

SEQ ID NO 40 is the sequence of another oligonucleotide primer used to replace codons with those encoding a 6His tag.

SEQ ID NO 41 is the sequence of one oligonucleotide primer used to generate a PAS GAF PHY truncation of DrBphP.

SEQ ID NO 42 is the sequence of another oligonucleotide primer used to generate a PAS GAF PHY truncation of DrBphP.

SEQ ID NO 46 is the polynucleotide coding sequence of the chromophore binding domain of bacterial phytochrome isolated from DrCBD .

SEQ ID NO 47 is the polynucleotide coding sequence of the full length SyACphl protein of the bacterium sp. OS Type A.

SEQ ID NO 48 is the polynucleotide coding sequence of the full length SyBCphl protein of the bacterium sp. OS Type B .

