---

title: User and stream demographics metadata guide based content services
abstract: A metadata guide of audio, video, multimedia transmission, receiving and playback with advertising and bi-directional fulfillment of goods and services over the Internet includes the use of user and stream demographics. A streaming content distribution system includes a a server to a) stream content based on i) user demographics and ii) historical and real time stream demographics from a plurality of streaming content sources and b) stream advertisements based on user demographics selected by advertisers, commercial agreements and access control rules from a plurality of streaming advertisement sources before, during, and after playback of streaming content from the server over the internet to a user device including a central processing unit and a physical user interface; and a guide including metadata not input by the users for the user device to locate streaming content on the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756101&OS=08756101&RS=08756101
owner: TuneIn, Inc.
number: 08756101
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080125
---
The invention relates in general to services provided through a guide of audio video multimedia transmission receiving and playback system with advertising and bi directional fulfillment of goods and services over the Internet. More specifically to a system in which users select specific audio video and multimedia content from a plurality of Internet sources receiving such content at the user s location using an Internet connect device where advertising targeted at the user is placed before during and or after the content is played run and with the user having the option of purchasing goods and services as a result of the advertising through the same Internet connect devices at the convenience of the user.

Traditional content such as radio and television broadcasts have been predicated on a physical antenna located in a specific geography. Generally this limited access of broadcast content to consumers within a specific geography enabling advertisements to be targeted at those within the broadcast range of the antenna. Furthermore it limited the number of broadcasters in any geography to those with sufficient capital to build the physical infrastructure. In developed countries such as the United States sophisticated statistical demographic analysis as well as polling customers in various regions of the country has been developed by companies such as Arbitron to determine what who and how long customers watch or listen to a broadcast. This is ultimately used to determine how much a broadcaster can charge an advertiser to present goods and services to the broadcaster s customers. Furthermore the advertisement is generally unidirectional that is a broadcast advertisement message requires that an interested customer use an alternate method e.g. travel to a store make a telephone call to a product services fulfillment house send mail to a fulfillment house etc. to obtain the advertised goods and or services.

Presently with the tremendous capabilities of the Internet as a method to distribute content and as a source of customers broadcasters and other producers of audio video and multimedia content have begun to make their content available to users of the Internet. Using the Internet for content distribution is very different from traditional broadcasting with respect to capital investment and geographic reach. For example while traditional broadcasters require substantial up front capital to build the necessary infrastructure to reach a local audience once the infrastructure is in place the cost of incremental customer use of the infrastructure is virtually zero. With the Internet this is not the case. While it is relatively inexpensive to build the infrastructure to deliver content via the Internet costs are associated with incremental customer use of the content i.e. each individual user of an Internet stream requires incremental bandwidth and other computer network resources. With respect to geographic reach the Internet is without boundaries extending the availability of the content globally. With the Internet listening watching or working with content originating in Los Angeles is as easily accomplished by a customer in New York or Paris as one in Los Angeles.

The ease of establishing a presence on the Internet with the promise of a large numbers of customers has lead to hundreds of thousands of streaming content providers today. Internet content providers vary from traditional broadcasters with professionally produced content to individuals producing unique amateur content. The Internet further enables ever more sophisticated methods for user interaction with content a direct means to collect information about the user and a means to conduct instantaneous transactions for goods and services by users.

The explosion content streams available on the Internet and the global nature of Internet access to content have lead to fundamental problems of 1 how customers find content of interest and 2 how can advertisement be effectively run with users in multiple geographies. In the United States alone traditional radio stations making their broadcast streams available on the Internet today number in the tens of thousands making regional call letters for stations almost obsolete and local advertisements ineffective for Internet listeners outside of the original broadcast geography.

The present invention realizes the potential of the Internet for users content providers and advertisers. The invention answers many of the aforementioned problems for user and Internet content providers by providing a system and method to effectively find and stream Internet accessible content with advertisements targeted to the user without knowing a priori from where the user may be accessing such content. Furthermore it defines a method for fulfilling advertised goods and services during playback use of content.

In the first embodiment of the invention a system with a content guide a single control access point for content streams and a single control access point for advertisement and a module for fulfillment is contemplated. Within the system a method for user access and playback of content and targeted advertisement as well as a way to fulfill goods and services associated user initiated actions as a result of targeted advertisements are described.

In the second embodiment of the invention a system with a content guide multiple control access points for content streams and a single control access point for advertisement and a module for fulfillment is contemplated. Within the system a method for user access and playback of content and targeted advertisement as well as a way to fulfill goods and services associated user initiated actions as a result of targeted advertisements are described.

In the third embodiment of the invention a system with a content guide a single control and access point for content streams and multiple control access points for advertisement and a module for fulfillment is contemplated. Within the system a method for user access and playback of content and targeted advertisement as well as a way to fulfill goods and services associated user initiated actions as a result of targeted advertisements are described.

In the fourth embodiment of the invention a system with a content guide a single control access point for content streams and multiple control access points for advertisement and a module for fulfillment is contemplated. Within the system a method for user access and playback of content and targeted advertisement as well as a way to fulfill goods and services associated user initiated actions as a result of targeted advertisements are described. Additionally targeted advertisements are selected using a marketplace where the content streams owners may accept bids from advertisers for how much they are willing to pay to place advertisements on before during and content stream playback.

In the fifth embodiment of the invention a system with a content guide multiple control and access points for content streams and multiple control access points for advertisement and a module for fulfillment is contemplated. Within the system a method for user access and playback of content and targeted advertisement as well as a way to fulfill goods and services associated user initiated actions as a result of targeted advertisements are described.

Finally the sixth embodiment of the invention a system with a content guide multiple control and access points for content streams and multiple control access points for advertisement and a module for fulfillment is contemplated. Within the system a method for user access and playback of content and targeted advertisement as well as a way to fulfill goods and services associated with user initiated actions as a result of targeted advertisements are described. Additionally targeted advertisements are selected using a marketplace where the content streams owners may accept bids from advertisers for how much they are willing to pay to place advertisements on before during and content stream playback.

The elements of the content services in accordance with the invention can essentially be divided into four distinct components user module and guide module stream modules and and a fulfillment module as illustrated in .

The system enables users to playback content available on the Internet in such a way that the owners of such content may be paid by advertisers and others wishing to make their goods and services available to users of the system. Content as described herein is defined as audible visual and or multimedia streams or programs found on the Internet with which a person can hear see and interact. A user may select and navigate through text audio streams video streams and multi media programs. Multi media programs are defined as interactive programs that may run on a device with a central processing unit accepting user input and displaying output such as text audio video graphics that may change over time.

In the preferred embodiment the system is driven through a Guide of content made available to users over the Internet. Computer Users and Device Users access a Guide of Managed Content Streams . The Managed Content Stream include a Content Guardian authorizing controlling access and holding limited or complete copyright to Content Streams which may be text audio and video streams and multimedia content published and available on the Internet. Content access control includes the ability to selectively enable access to content streams by user attribute playback device type content player attributes commercial relationship etc. Examples of Content Guardian include radio and television networks individual radio stations etc. Content Streams is made up of a plurality of individual content streams each selectable for playback by a user. Examples of such content are radio broadcast streams podcasts television broadcast streams and video podcasts. The Managed Ad Streams are made up of an Ad Guardian which authorizes controls access and holds limited or complete copyright to the Ad Streams which may be made up of audio video and multimedia advertising streams. Ad stream access control includes the ability to selectively enable access to ad streams by user attribute playback device type content player attributes commercial relationship etc. Content Guardians include companies such as Ando Media CBS Radio and Akamai Networks. The Ad Streams for the advertisers goods and services are linked to content streams through commercial agreements between advertisers advertisers agents and Content Guardians for payment e.g. money in kind goods and services etc. when advertisements are played run before during and after playback running of Content Streams for Computer Users and Device Users . Content Guardian are linked to Ad Guardian through a commercial or wholly owned relationship which enables advertisements to be included within Ad Streams following the formalized commercial agreement between advertisers and Content Guardians .

Computer Users and Device Users interacting with the content may request Fulfillment i.e. the purchase rental request for information etc. of goods and services presented to the Computer Users and Device Users during interaction with the content. Computer Users and Device Users requests to Fulfillment represent a bidirectional interaction over the Internet and are encrypted when privacy and security are important. For example when a user purchases goods and or services through a credit card or other electronic payment systems such as PayPal or Google Payment through Fulfillment the purchase transaction will be encrypted using SSL or PKI.

The Guide contains data such as the name of the content the time at which the content is available a synopsis of the type of content e.g. a song a speech a book etc. the title the topic the personality associated with the content e.g. disk jockey talk show host etc. Internet location of the content the broadcaster of the content schedule information genres ratings suggestions affiliations and details of the streaming protocols needed to access the content including codec bit rate playlist and reliability. The data is collected using automated software importing structured feeds and external sources a web based content management system for manual entry and feedback and edits supplied by the moderated or un moderated user community such as a Wiki. Web Services and Representation State Transfer REST interfaces accessible on the Internet enable access to the Guide data by Web applications also located on the Internet. Web applications may add and or change user account and preference information query categorical metadata such as genres locations or user favorites search and browse content via that metadata obtain details about the content begin streaming the content from the broadcaster source and communicate problems with the content. Access to such Web Services requires authorization and authentication.

Computer Users and Device Users may select and navigate through Managed Content Streams and Managed Ad Streams through the use of physical interfaces such as mice keyboards buttons joysticks scroll wheels remote controls and touch screens or computer generated interfaces such as buttons pull down menus tabs ribbons scroll bars data grids and other software user interface controls.

Computer Users are computer users with authorized and authenticated access to the Internet and may access and playback audio video and multimedia streams content and advertisements . Computer Users include individuals with personal computers PCs with access to the Internet. Computer Users may get access to information in the Guide through a Web Browser or a standalone program. Access through a Web browser or a standalone program requires that that one or more Web applications exist on the Internet that is authorized and authenticated to call to the Web Services published by the Guide . The Web Services are accessed by a Web application through an application programming interfaces APIs . The APIs include 

Account UserAuthenticate Validates a given set of credentials against our identity management system 

Account UserUpdateListenFilter Modifies the allowable media types associated with a given user account 

Favorite FolderGet Retrieves all radio guide items associated with a container folder created and populated by a user 

Station Get Retrieves common metadata for a radio station including name call sign frequency location and genres 

Search ByCategory Finds all stations and programs associated with a RadioTime defined category such as a genre or location 

Tuner Tune Identifies the highest quality most reliable most compatible listening source for a given radio station or program 

Recording StatusUpdate Provides a mechanism to report the success or failure in playing a stream delivered by the RadioTime guide among others.

Web applications may be branded according to the developers of such applications enabling a plurality of independent Web sites to access and display data available in Guide . Furthermore widgets that provide embeddable HTML content and applications using frameworks such as AJAX are available for other portals like Google Desktop local news sites and for social networking platforms such as Facebook My Space etc.

Additional functionality to that described herein is made available through integration with the social networking platforms. Integrated functionality includes in real time and or on a deferred basis 1 the ability to share with others to what a user is listening viewing and or interacting 2 the ability to set a reminder when a selected stream is available for listening viewing and or interacting sent to a computer or handheld device through a separate program a notification within the social networking site an email and or an instant message 3 the ability to share with others when a selected stream is available for listening viewing and or interacting 4 the ability to make and share commentary and rank selected streams available for listening viewing and or interacting and 5 the ability to record and share a selected streams 

Device Users individuals with handheld devices such as cell phones Smartphones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs MP3 players etc. or home entertainment devices such as the Logitech Squeezebox Cisco Media products Altec Lansing REX tuner or other receivers amplifiers etc. that can access and play content located on the Internet without the use of a general purpose computer. The Device Users may get access to information in the Guide through a Web Browser or a standalone program. Access through a handheld or consumer entertainment device requires that that one or more Web applications exist on the Internet that may be authorized and authenticated to call to the Web Services published by the Guide . The Web Services are accessed by a Web application through an application programming interface API as described above. Web applications may be branded according to the device brand enabling a plurality of visually independent Web sites to access and display data available in Guide based on the capabilities of the device.

When Computer Users or Device Users selects content to be delivered and played back Content Guardian in conjunction with Ad Guardian creates a playlist of Content Streams and Ad Stream Streams to be delivered and played back on the Computer Users or Device Users machine. The playlist may be interpreted by the machine s associated with 1 the Computer Users or Device Users or 2 at the Guide and or Content Guardian and or Ad Guardian or 3 at Computer Users or Device Users in coordination with Guide and or Content Guardian and or Ad Guardian . Guide and or Content Guardian and or Ad Guardian may also be utilized as a payment gateway for ad revenue sharing to partners of Ad Guardian .

The user selected content stream may be available from a plurality of content streams within Content Streams . In this case the demographics about Computer Users or Device Users are used by Guide to locate the most appropriate source for the selected content using knowledge of location of the user from the demographics information on the historical playback reliability of the selected content stream the device network connection time and date the user s favorites speed and reliability of the options available format of the available streams and amount of time remaining in a shared broadcast. Additionally the selection may be further influenced by commercial business relationships. For example there may be multiple suppliers of a specific piece of content and user selection of content is directly related to the visibility of the content supplier to the user. In this case suppliers may be very interested in establishing a commercial relationship such that guide data is provided in a way that creates greater visibility for the content of the paying supplier to the user resulting in more users for the paying supplier s content. In another example the commercial business relationship with the Content Guardian independent of the Ad Guardian and or with an external entity such as a performing artist independent of the Ad Guardian or the Content Guardian could define for a fee automatic selection of a specific content stream if certain playback criteria are met. If the user selected content stream is only available as a single content stream within Content Streams this unique content stream will represent the content from the most appropriate location .

The selected stream is sent to Content Guardian and Ad Guardian where authorized access to Content Streams and Ad Streams is respectively requested. Content Guardian and Ad Guardian may be different services of a single Guardian solution or may be completely independent Guardian services. Upon authorization Ad Guardian will select ads based on the access control rules and the stored demographics of Computer Users or Device Users . Content Guardian then creates for Computer Users or Device Users a playlist of content from Content Streams and targeted ads from Ad Streams where the ads may be placed before during and after user selected content.

Following or during the creation of the playlist if a media player has not been started a media player is started on the playback machine specified by Computer Users or Device Users with the playlist optionally sent to the playback machine. This is followed by the streaming of Content Streams and Ad Streams initiated by 1 the machine specified by Computer Users or Device Users or 2 the Content Guardian and Ad Guardian or 3 is coordinated between Computer Users or Device Users and Content Guardian and Ad Guardian to a player located on the machine specified by Computer Users or Device Users for interactive playback. During the playback player interaction is monitored for user input.

A second reason for Player Interaction is that Computer Users or Device Users has fulfillment requests leading to steps shown in . Here the information associated with Users or Device Users is passed to the Fulfillment Provider over the Internet by WiFi cellular network DSL cable dial up etc. In order to fulfill the user s request it may be necessary to download information for display and or to run a program on a machine specified by or automatically selected for Computer Users or Device Users in order to fulfill the request . For example if a user clicks on a buy button for a song the information such as the album artist name of song album cover art length of song genre price release year composer etc. could be presented to the user through the player or through a different application.

A third reason for Player Interaction continuing on may be that Computer Users or Device Users has requested a switch to a different stream . In this case Content Streams and Ad Streams are stopped and stream and stream use information and use as well user statistics collected . Following this the process that began the creation of the playlists of content and targeted ads is restarted.

The fourth and final reason for Player Interaction continuing on may be that Computer Users or Device Users has clicked a link within the player requesting the launch of a specific Web destination within a browser. Following this player interaction the process playback of content and targeted ads as well as the monitoring for player interaction is continued.

1 Authorization from a specific Ad Guardian with whom an existing commercial relationship exists between a specific Content Guardian for ad streams associated with the user selected content or

2 Selecting from multiple Ad Guardians with whom an existing commercial relationships exists between the specific Content Guardian for ad streams associated with the user selected content the ads which generates the largest amount of advertising revenue and getting authorization from different specific Ad Guardians or

3 Default authorization because the content stream is marked for null advertisements as would be the case for a user based content subscription service .

Following Authorization Content Guardian in conjunction with Ad Guardian or creates a playlist of content from Content Streams and targeted ads where the or the lack of ads is defined by the User Authorization .

At this point the Ad Marketplace monitors for bids and continues with the process of preparing for streaming the user selected content referring back to . Here a playlist of the user selected content and ad slots is created . Next a content player is launched on the user device if it has not already started . This is followed by continuous monitoring and storing information i.e. the location of the targeted ad the ad slot and the user about accepted bids from Content Guardian . This is followed by the streaming of Content Streams and ad streams with accepted bids initiated by 1 the machine specified by Computer Users or Device Users or 2 the Content Guardian and Ad Guardian or 3 is coordinated between Computer Users or Device Users and Content Guardian and Ad Guardian to a player located on the machine specified by Computer Users or Device Users for interactive playback. During the playback player interaction is monitored for user input. If there is no input step is continued. Steps in are nearly identical to those described in with the exception of the step following launching of a new instance of a browser with a link clicked by a user which continues with step in . Similarly steps in are nearly identical to those described in with the exception of the step following downloading and or starting the necessary Fulfillment processes on the user machine step which continues with step in . Step performs monitoring and stores information i.e. the location of the targeted ad the ad slot and the user associated with accepted bids.

Continuing with the process of finding a market price for ad spots in Ad Marketplace checks for bids . For each bid Ad Marketplace checks with Content Guardian if the bid is for the last ad slot . If the bid is not for the last ad spot Ad Marketplace checks with Content Guardian whether the bid is acceptable . For an acceptable bid the accepted price and ad specific ad stream slot is noted and used in step in for playback to the user and continued monitoring for bids . If bid is not acceptable the Ad Marketplace continues monitoring for bids . If the bid is for the last ad spot Ad Marketplace checks with Content Guardian whether the bid is acceptable . For an acceptable bid for the last ad slot the accepted price and ad specific ad stream slot is noted and used in step in for playback to the user and then terminate the process for setting market prices for the specific content stream and user . For an unacceptable bid for the last ad slot Ad Marketplace checks to see if the bid closing time has been reached . If the bid closing time has been reached for the last ad slot terminate the process for setting market prices for the specific content stream and user . Otherwise Ad Marketplace continues monitoring for bids .

Continuing with during the process of monitoring for bids the bid close times are also monitored . If a bid close time is not reached the monitoring continues . If a bid close time is reached Ad Marketplace checks with Content Guardian if the bid close time is for the last ad slot . If the bid close time is not for the last ad spot Ad Marketplace checks with Content Guardian to see if the last bid is acceptable at that time. For an acceptable last bid the accepted price and ad specific ad stream slot is noted and used in step in for playback to the user and continued monitoring for bids . If the last bid is not acceptable the Ad Marketplace continues monitoring for bids . If the bid close time is for the last ad spot Ad Marketplace checks with Content Guardian to see if the last bid is acceptable at that time. For an acceptable last bid for the last bid close time the accepted price and ad specific ad stream slot is noted and used in step in for playback to the user and terminate the process for setting market prices for the specific content stream and user . For an unacceptable last bid for the last bid time Ad Marketplace terminates the process for setting market prices for the specific content stream and user .

The above embodiments are only illustrative of the principles of this invention and are not intended to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. One skilled in the art should recognize that services described may be deployed using one or more servers on user devices and in combination with other system components. In particular it is contemplated that functional implementation of the invention described herein may be implemented equivalently in hardware software firmware and or other available functional components or building blocks. Accordingly various modifications adaptations and combinations of various features of the described embodiments can be practiced without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

