---

title: Direct ultrashort laser system
abstract: A direct ultrashort laser system is provided. In another aspect of the present invention, a method of measuring laser pulse phase distortions is performed without requiring an adaptive pulse shaper or interferometry. In yet another aspect of the present invention, a system, a method of operating, a control system, and a set of programmable computer software instructions perform Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan processes, calculations, characterization and/or correction without requiring an adaptive pulse shaper.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311069&OS=08311069&RS=08311069
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 08311069
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081219
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 015 976 filed Dec. 21 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein.

A portion of this invention was made with U.S. Government support under Major Research Instrumentation grant CHE 0421047 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention generally relates to laser systems and more particularly to a direct ultrashort laser system.

Recent ultrashort laser devices use optimization calculation approaches for pulse compression that do not require phase measurement and that are able to characterize the phase after pulse compression provided a calibrated pulse shaper is used. Pulse shapers such as an adaptive pixelated SLM traditional MEMS deformable membrane mirror and a Dazzler acousto optic crystal and the related components however can be relatively expensive. Additionally the ability to measure and correct the spectral phase of a laser becomes more challenging as the spectral bandwidth increases such as for a sub 5 femtosecond duration pulse.

A challenge in ultrashort pulse characterization is the accurate measurement of abrupt discontinuous phase changes that may be introduced by pulse shapers and to some extent by dieletric optics. The curvature of the phase changes that can be measured by Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan MIIPS increases with the optical resolution of the pulse shaper being used. For example a phase step to be accurately measured using 10 or 100 nm FWHM pulses and a 640 pixel pulse shaper should have a run longer than 0.15 or 1.5 nm respectively. Another issue is that the minimum amount of chirp that can be measured increases for narrower bandwidths. For example the uncertainty of a measurement for pulses spanning 10 or 100 nm FWHM would be 500 or 5 fs respectively. When MIIPS is implemented by using a spatial light modulator SLM based pulse shaper the maximum phase delay that can be introduced limits the measurable phase range. By phase wrapping and double passing the SLM maximum delays of up to 1000 rad are possible. Furthermore noteworthy improvements in laser pulse control are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0056468 entitled Control System and Apparatus For Use With Ultra Fast Laser and PCT International Application Serial No. PCT US07 24171 filed on Nov. 16 2007 entitled Laser System Employing Harmonic Generation both of which were invented by Marcos Dantus et al. and are incorporated by reference herein.

In accordance with the present invention a direct ultrashort laser system is provided. In another aspect of the present invention a method of measuring laser pulse phase distortions is performed using passive optics such as a prism grating or prism pair arrangement and without requiring an adaptive pulse shaper or overlap between two or more beams. In another aspect of the present invention a method for directly displaying the second derivative of the spectral phase distortions is performed without requiring a pulse shaper overlap between two or more beams or an interferometer. In yet another aspect of the present invention a system a method of operating a control system and a set of programmable computer software instructions perform Multi photon Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan processes calculations characterization and or correction without requiring a spatial light modulator or such other expensive adaptive pulse shaper. Furthermore another aspect of the present invention employs methods control systems and software instructions for calculating measuring and or characterizing an unknown phase distortion of a laser beam through use of the second derivative of the spectral phase and or using a series of second harmonic spectra obtained under different chirp conditions to determine the spectral phase distortion. A further aspect of the present invention provides for automatic real time and computer controlled adjustment of optics associated with a femtosecond laser stretcher and or compressor to compensate for phase distortions based on calculations and or measurements of the spectral phase distortions in ultrashort laser beam pulses without the use of a pulse shaper. Additionally another aspect of the present invention allows for directly measuring the second derivative of an unknown phase.

The direct ultrashort laser system of the present invention is advantageous over conventional devices in that the present invention system is considerably less expensive to implement. For example in certain embodiments traditional optical hardware can be employed without expensive pulse shapers or separate optical devices such as FROG or SPIDER but will still allow for accurate measurement and or characterization of otherwise unknown phase distortions within the laser pulse. This system can then be upgraded in a relatively easy manner by providing for higher level calculations of the measured phase distortions. Moreover the system can be further upgraded to provide automatically controlled adjustments and compensation for the measured and or characterized phase distortions to essentially eliminate undesired distortions. Accordingly a low cost easily upgradable and easy to practically implement system is achieved while also providing excellent accuracy of results. For example a non adaptive and passive phase adjustable mirror is a reflective macroscopic optic which does not employ pixelation. By way of another example a non adaptive and passive pulse shaper has a single bendable optic. A further example of a non adaptive and passive pulse shaper includes a manually adjustable actuator s that is not voltage driven. Such an optic is very efficient and is expected to return greater than 95 of the incident light excluding other components such as gratings . In another example a non adaptive and passive pulse shaper has a single adjustable parameter. Furthermore a piezoelectric actuator provides an additional exemplary non adaptive and passive pulse shaper. Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

An ultrashort laser system of the present invention employs an intuitive single beam pulse characterization method that provides an accurate and direct measurement of the spectral phase of ultrashort laser pulses. In one aspect the method requires the successive imposition of a set of quadratic spectral phase functions on the pulses while recording the corresponding nonlinear spectra. The second derivative of the unknown spectral phase can be directly visualized and extracted from the experimental 2D contour plot constructed from the series of spectra without the need of an inversion algorithm or mathematical manipulation. In other words a number of MIIPS implementations for directly measuring without relying on phase retrieval algorithms are achieved with the present invention. Data acquisition for MIIPS does not require autocorrelation interferometry or even a computer controlled pulse shaper. Once phase distortions are measured it is straightforward to compensate the measured phase distortions using a passive phase adjustable mirror. Compensation of phase distortions at the target is desirable for reproducible femtosecond laser applications.

A spectral phase measurement should be simple direct and insensitive to noise. Nonlinear optical NLO processes are sensitive to the second derivative of the phase because of multiphoton intrapulse interference. In keeping with the above requirements the direct measurement of the second derivative of an unknown phase is considered.

MIIPS spectral phase measurements are obtained without the use of an adaptive pulse shaper such as an SLM. Instead the reference functions p are introduced using standard passive optics such as a prism grating or prism pair arrangement. Different amounts of linear chirp are introduced to amplified pulses using the built in compressor in the regenerative amplifier by varying the spacing between the grating pair. As illustrated in the measured linear dependence indicates the presence of a cubic phase distortion also known as TOD which is not eliminated.

The effect of the different terms of a Taylor expansion of the spectral phase on the time profile of an ultrashort pulse are 1 The zeroth order phase sometimes called absolute phase determines the relative position of the carrier wave with respect to the pulse envelope. In most cases the term is of little interest. This is due to the fact that when the pulse is many carrier wave cycles long which is the most common situation a change in has a very small effect on the pulse field. None of the pulse characterization methods mentioned in this paper are able to measure the zeroth order phase. The first order phase corresponds to a shift of the pulse envelope in time. Given that the interest is typically centered on the pulse shape and not on the arrival time of the pulse the term is also of little interest. The second and higher order terms do have an effect on the time profile of the pulses. Therefore the second derivative of the spectral phase is the parameter that determines the pulse shape.

MIIPS measures by successively imposing a set of parametrized p reference spectral phases p to the pulses with unknown phase distortion and acquiring the corresponding NLO spectra for example SHG. In the second derivative space the set of reference functions p can be visualized as a grid used to map the unknown i.e. to find which p intersects at any desired frequency . 2 Note that for each such point the reference function cancels the local chirp and therefore the NLO signal is maximized at hence the required parameter is labeled p.

The most simple grid for mapping the unknown second derivative of the phase in the controller consists of constant functions p p see which correspond to linear chirp. In this case different amounts of linear chirp can be imposed on the pulses using passive or adaptive optics. For each reference phase an NLO spectrum is plotted as a function of p in a two dimensional contour map as shown in . The feature of interest is p which can be visualized by drawing a line through the maxima in the contour plot here the solid curve in . The spectral phase information is directly obtained by finding p and using Equation 2 . In the case of chirp MIIPS Equation 2 reads p p . Therefore the unknown is directly obtained by the controller from the contour plot without any mathematical retrieval procedure as shown in

A MIIPS scan takes between 5 and 15 seconds depending on the device used to introduce the reference phases and the number of phases used. Although not necessary an iterative measurement compensation routine can be used to achieve the maximum possible accuracy especially in the case of complex spectral phases. Double integration of the measured results in . Once is obtained by the controller the controller then causes the shaper to introduce by the shaper in order to eliminate the measured phase distortions to achieve TL pulses.

Referring to an ultrabroad bandwidth femtosecond Ti AlOlaser oscillator with a double chirped mirror pair is used whose spectrum spans 620 1050 nm and generates a SHG spectrum spanning almost 200 nm. The pulse shaper for introducing the spectral phase is a folded all reflective grating based system containing a 150 lines per mm grating a 762 mm focal length spherical mirror and a non adaptive and passive optic that can be slightly bent so that its surface achieves the desired phase retardation upon reflecting the dispersed beam. After the shaper the pulses are focused onto a 20 m type I KDP crystal and the SHG signal is separated from the fundamental before it is directed to a spectrometer. A spectrometer model QE65000 from Ocean Optics Inc. would be satisfactory. illustrates an expected spectral phase measurement. The introduced R and measured G phase functions agree without adjusting the parameter. shows the second derivative of the spectral phases and shows the spectral phases. The spectrum of the pulses is also shown in the dashed line. As shown in and the system setup is of the type disclosed in B. W. Xu Y. Coello V. V. Lozovoy D. A. Harris and M. Dantus Pulse Shaping of Octave Spanning Femtosecond Laser Pulses Opt. Express 14 10939 10944 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The laser pulses from oscillator are first directed to spherical mirrors and in order to expand the beam radius to 4 mm and collimate the beam. 150 m pinhole is placed at the focal point of the first spherical mirror to reduce the fluorescence from the oscillator and to ensure better collimation. The laser was then directed into a pulse shaper consisting of an enhanced aluminum coated 150 line per mm grating folding mirror 762 mm focal length gold coated spherical mirror and 640 pixel double mask SLM CRI SLM 640 in a folded geometry chosen to double the retardance that can be introduced by the SLM. It is noteworthy that a nonadaptive pulse shaper is preferred instead of the much more expensive SLM disclosed in this exemplary construction. The optical resolution on the SLM depends on the diameter of the beam and the focal length of the spherical mirror and here is approximately one SLM pixel width 100 m . The SLM is calibrated pixel by pixel with 0.05 rad accuracy due to the large bandwidth of our laser. After the pulse shaper the laser is focused onto a 20 m type 1 KDP crystal by 200 mm focal length spherical mirror . The SHG signal along with the fundamental laser pulses are collimated by a thin quartz lens and directed to the detection apparatus. The beam is first dispersed by a quartz prism to separate the SHG light from the fundamental frequencies. All the frequency components are then focused by a quartz lens with focal length 15 cm. Razor blade located at the Fourier plane is used to block the fundamental frequency components without loss of SHG light. The second harmonic frequencies are then retro reflected by mirror and directed into a spectrometer for example Model No. OE65000 from Ocean Optics Inc. . Since the SHG signal is S polarized the detection apparatus is placed on a plate vertical to the optical table to avoid the use of polarization rotators that could not adequately manage the large spectral bandwidth.

Transform limited pulses are obtained by measuring and compensating the spectral phase of the system using the sinusoidal MIIPS method by the controller. To demonstrate the performance of this method a cubic spectral phase function defined as 500 fs which corresponds to a linear is introduced to the pulses and measured with the method described herein. The trace is shown in . The dashed line indicates the spectral maxima which directly correspond to the expected measurement . Note that both the accuracy and precision of the measurement are 1 2 fs and results are obtained from a single chirp scan with grid step of 5 fs. shows expected measurement of a cubic phase to be obtained by a single chirp scan where a contour plot of the expected SHG spectra is measured at each value of applied chirp. The feature revealed by the spectral maxima corresponds to the second derivative of the cubic phase introduced. The second derivative is linear with frequency and the inset shows a magnified portion of the trace.

Once is obtained the controller uses double integration to calculate . shows the measured and the introduced functions together with the spectrum of the laser. Excellent accuracy of the results is expected which is obtained from a single chirp scan. The expected data shown in projects the third order dispersion TOD with 0.5 accuracy.

The method presented is able to measure arbitrarily complex spectral phases. A sinusoidal spectral phase function defined by 5 sin 7 fs is introduced using a pulse shaper and then measured by the method described herein. As evident from the screen shot shown in the second derivative of the introduced phase is to be obtained from a chirp scan. In the projected measured phase G dashed line is very close to the phase to be introduced by the comparative pulse shaper R thin line . To improve the quality of this method an iterative measurement compensation routine can be used. In other words shows the expected experimental trace where the measured second derivative of the phase can be directly visualized from the feature corresponding to the spectral maxima. Furthermore shows the measured second derivative after a chirp scan G and after one measurement compensations iteration B . The curve R corresponds to the introduced sinusoidal function.

The MIIPS implementation of the present invention does not necessarily require the use of an adaptive pulse shaper. Given that different amounts of chirp can be applied using passive optics the method can be conveniently and is preferably implemented using these devices. If an adaptive pulse shaper is used however compression can be accomplished by applying to nullify the measured phase distortions.

In addition to linear chirp other reference functions can be employed when using an adaptive pulse shaper for comparative purposes. Even though the simplicity of the measurement resulting from using a constant has been highlighted herein there are as many variations of the method as reference functions one can implement. For example the accuracy of the use of a sinusoidal has been proven but requires a special optic or shaper to introduce such a phase. Other options include adding a fixed amount of cubic reference phase while scanning a quadratic phase This corresponds to a diagonal grid. Adding a negative cubic reference phase produces the complementary diagonal grid. Cubic phase causes the horizontal dashed lines of to become diagonal lines. This approach can be implemented on arbitrarily complex distortions and allows improved and fine tuned accuracy.

The MIIPS chirp scan implementation is especially suitable for sub 50 fs pulses. For a measurable distortion the corresponding change I I 0 2 needs to be bigger than the noise N where is the time duration of the pulses. For a Gaussian pulse I 0 2 N is obtained where 4 ln 2. Typically the noise of the SHG signal is about a few percent. Therefore the precision of the measurements is about 0.1 . 5 fs and a 2.5 fsprecision is calculated for the present laser system which should be in excellent agreement with expected experimental results.

There can be an instruction that outputs parameters to be used with a pulse shaper that can compensate the measured phase distortions to eliminate them. The calibration step can be accomplished by introducing a known amount of group velocity dispersion. For example introducing one centimeter of quartz. Furthermore the spectrum of the pulse and the measured phase can be used to calculate the ratio . The first value is calculated from the Fourier transform of the spectrum including the phase distortions measured the second value is obtained from the Fourier transform of the spectrum assuming there are no phase distortions. This fraction gives the user a sense of how far from transform limited the pulses are. As part of an automated system this value indicates if the equipment is performing within an acceptable range or it needs to be optimized.

When this method is used for microscopy as will be further discussed hereinafter the user should use a thin 10 100 m second harmonic generation crystal for example KDP KTP BBO LBO encased between a thin 100 m quartz cover slip and a microscope slide. The crystal should be protected from phase matching fluid used in microscopy by sealing the space between the cover slip and the microscope slide with a polymer such as silicon glue.

A grisms based optical setup allows for the measurement and compensation disclosed herein and is well suited for microscopy. The prism grisms gratings offset mirrors or other optics can be adjusted manually based on information provided by the MIIPS can obtained by introducing a series of linear chirps. The adjustments can be computer controlled and automated based on information calculated from the measurements performed by the scan in a fully automated fashion.

For communications there is a great need to measure third and higher order dispersion and then to design a phase mask or a special fiber to cancel the third order dispersion. Therefore the system of the present application is ideally suited for just measuring phase distortions and for measuring the dispersion in an optical fiber used in communications and also an optical fiber used for microscopy and endoscopy. Moreover an aspect of the present invention pertains to the use of an acoustic optical programmable filter to introduce the linear chirp for the method disclosed herein to get the phase information. Another aspect of the present laser system is well suited for solely measuring a chromatic dispersion of optics such as dielectric mirrors chirped mirrors microscope objectives optical substrates and target substances. The performance of the present laser system can also be tested at specified intervals of time to ensure that it is in optimal condition when used in micromachining or surgical stations by way of example and not limitation the controller can automatically send a malfunction warning alert or alternately automatically adjust itself by changing the deformation of an optic depending on the test results.

Intense sub 10 fs laser pulses are desired in high field laser science for applications such as single attosecond pulse generation. Because of spectral narrowing in the conventional amplification process the shortest pulses that can be obtained from a conventional Ti sapphire based chirped pulse amplification CPA system are usually limited to 15 fs. In one embodiment the spectrum and the spectral phase of continuum generated in an Argon filled hollow core fiber are characterized by MIIPS without an adaptive pulse shaper. The time duration of the laser pulses should be 166 and 4.8 fs before and after MIIPS compression respectively. The pulse energy of the compressed pulses is 150 J pulse. The phase corrected continuum can be used for the remote detection of chemicals. For this use part of the spectrum is blocked at the Fourier plane of the pulse shaper. The present direct laser system is ideally suited for this end use.

Knowledge of the dispersive properties of optical media is helpful for femtosecond laser applications. The second order dispersion k referred to as GVD is an especially critical parameter because it determines the temporal broadening experienced by ultrashort pulses after traveling through a material. GVD measurements of water and seawater have been obtained using MIIPS with an accuracy comparable only to that of white light interferometry. An ultrabroad bandwidth femtosecond laser 620 1025 nm is transmitted through water containing cuvettes with 5 10 20 and 30 mm path lengths. In each case MIIPS can directly measure the GDD introduced by the sample and from the slope of a linear fit to the data as a function of path length a measurement of k is obtained by the controller. The controller calculates values based on the knowledge of the refractive index of water as a function of frequency. The present direct laser system is ideally suited for this end use.

Femtosecond laser pulses are useful for nonlinear biomedical imaging. Methods such as two photon microscopy take advantage of the ability of near IR lasers to travel through scattering biological tissue and provide high resolution images. The development of techniques for optimized depth resolved imaging as well as surgical procedures involving femtosecond lasers will require accurate characterization of pulses after they transmit through biological samples. After propagation through scattering biological tissue the majority of the beam is scattered making it impossible to use pulse characterization methods that depend on overlapping two or more pulses. Pulse characterization through scattering biological tissue is an illustrative example of MIIPS performance regardless of beam mode quality. Spectral phase characterization is employed after the pulses traveled through a 1 mm thick chicken breast tissue slice and a cow eye cornea lens complex.

The effect of noise on a MIIPS measurement for example the noise from the source pulse to pulse and mode quality is an advantage of the present laser system and method. Through the use of averaging the influence of pulse to pulse fluctuations can be substantially minimized. Given that MIIPS is preferably a single beam method mode quality plays no role. The second contribution to noise comes from the detector. A 1 1 signal to noise ratio is expected in the detected signal with minimal influence on the measured phase. Because MIIPS directly measures the integrated phase is relatively immune to noise in the measurement. The present direct laser system is ideally suited for this end use.

Another aspect of the present invention system method control system and computer software instructions is as follows. Amplified lasers typically have a compressor stage that is used to compensate linear chirp. There is an actuator in the compressor stage that is motorized that the user manually moves to find the optimal position where linear chirp is minimized. Making adjustments to minimize quadratic chirp in traditional devices are only carried out by experts because it is typically very difficult to measure and very difficult to know which knob to adjust in the laser. With the present laser system a linear chirp scan is advantageously achieved by scanning this actuator. The systematic scanning of this actuator while detecting at each position the spectrum of the second harmonic of the laser pulses the user is now able to characterize the laser pulses. The system includes a nonlinear optical source a spectrum detector a computer controller that synchronizes data acquisition with the position of the actuator a computer program to convert the actuator position into linear chirp value the same program to display the collection of spectra as a function of linear chirp for a program to extract the second derivative of the phase from the measured signals in a direct manner and to convert that function in to the spectral phase of the pulse.

A first embodiment of the present invention system method control system and software instructions is the simplest and readily usable with conventional laser devices but without requiring the expense of an adaptive pulse shaper. This embodiment allows for qualitative analysis by the programmed instructions in the computer control and associated method in order to measure and characterize phase distortions in a laser beam pulse and display them in a graphical manner. This allows the user to manually adjust the laser optics until the user is visually satisfied that the desired phase distortions have been reduced or eliminated. The method controller and computer software act as follows by 

a. Introducing linear chirp typically in the range of 10 000 to 10 000 fs . This value depends on the laser bandwidth and the estimated distortions the smallest I imagined is 1000 fsand the largest 100 000 fs. Laser optics such as a pair of prisms a pair of gratings one grating with an associated reflector a pair of grisms or a Trebino prism by way of example and not limitation can be used.

b. Acquiring a signal with a laser from a nonlinear optical process such as second harmonic generation. For example focusing on a second harmonic generation crystal or powder from such a crystal starch or SHG generated from the surface plasma as the femtosecond pulse interacts with a solid can be employed by way of example and not limitation.

c. Dispersing the spectrum of the nonlinear optical signal such as with a spectrometer a grating a prism or grism by way of example and not limitation.

d. Detecting the spectrum such as with a CCD camera a linear array of detectors or a rotating grating with a fixed detector by way of example and not limitation.

e. Calculating and displaying the resulting collection of spectra with the controller as a function of chirp as a three dimensional plot in which intensity is the z axis the y axis is linear chip and the x axis is wavelength. The three dimensional plot can then be displayed as a contour plot. This should provide fantastic pulse characterization.

A second and upgraded embodiment of the present invention system method control system and software instructions is based on the first embodiment above and provides quantitative analysis. This second embodiment however introduces a calibrated amount of linear chirp in step a of the first embodiment by using one or more known thicknesses of quartz for comparison by way of example. Additional steps and software instructions are as follows with reference to performed by 

f. Calculating and fitting resulting three dimensional data to extract for each wavelength the linear chirp that causes a maximum in the nonlinear optical spectrum with the controller

g. Calculating constructing and displaying the second derivative of the measured phase as a function of wavelength obtained from f with the controller.

i. optional Calculating by integrating twice the result from g as a function of wavelength to obtain the spectral phase as a function of wavelength with the controller.

j. optional Determining and displaying the phase obtained in i together with the spectrum of the laser with the controller.

k. optional Calculating and determining a fast Fourier transform using the spectrum of the laser pulse and the measured phase and then determining and displaying a graphical function that describes the pulse and or phase distortions in the time domain. Thereafter calculating the performance of the laser compared to the transform limited value to determine the amount of phase distortion if any. This is carried out with the programmable software instructions stored in the controller.

A third embodiment of the system method control system and software instructions is an additional upgrade to the first embodiment above. This exemplary embodiment repetitively performs the methods and instructions of the first embodiment and employ the hardware of steps a d therein. The hardware for step a however should be constructed in such a way as to scan the linear chirp fast repetitively and with minimum vibrations. This can be achieved with linear actuators such as stepper motors for manual adjustment. It could also be achieved with an off axis wheel that pushes the position of the optics a certain distance as it rotates depending on its position. Electromagnetic actuators such as those found in loud speakers could also be used. Conventional tilting of gratings and prisms to compensate for cubic dispersion typically causes other unknown problems. In contrast the present embodiment measures calculates and displays the phase distortion results including displaying the horizontal of the maximum multiphoton intrapulse interference intensities as shown in thereby allowing for much more educated and informative optic adjustments by the user. This will lead to more accurate and faster compensation and correction of the phase distortions.

A fourth embodiment system method control system and software instructions employs the second embodiment above. Additionally the computer controller and its associated programmed instructions automatically adjust the laser optics based on the calculations and determinations. For example an optic will deflect a small portion of the laser beam output the computer will calculate its characteristics as previously explained for the second embodiment and the controller will automatically actuate the actuators to move the optics if they are not meeting the desired specifications and minimized phase distortions. If these adjustments are still not satisfactory in comparison to predetermined target values then the controller can automatically display a warning shut down the laser system and or automatically contact a technician for servicing the machine.

Although these implementations do not require an adaptive pulse shaper when alternately and less preferably used with an adaptive pulse shaper the present system and method reduce the burden on the shaper. The above method can be used to reduce linear and quadratic chirp in order to let the pulse shaper deal with higher order dispersion and to introduce calibrated arbitrary phase functions.

A known method to introduce linear chirp is disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0070485 to Trebino which is incorporated by reference herein. The Trebino setup can be used for scanning linear chirp according to step a of the first embodiment herein. This system which is now sold commercially by Spectra Physics as the Deep Sea model provides an actuator that is calibrated. Note that this system is intended only for pulse compression only linear chirp . For one aspect of the present invention the operator first takes the entire beam output and uses it for second harmonic generation. It is the output of the SHG that needs to be dispersed and recorded as a function of linear chirp. In conclusion a new MIIPS implementation based on a simple chirp scan is presented. The corresponding trace directly yields the second derivative of the unknown spectral phase without any mathematical treatment.

A second known method to introduce linear chirp is disclosed in the publication by Oron et al Scanningless Depth Resolved Microscopy Optics Express Vol. 13 No. 5 p. 1468 Mar. 7 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein. The Oron method improves depth resolution and speeds up laser scanning microscopy. It involves the dispersion of a beam and collimating it and then focusing it as shown in Oron . At the second focal plane the beam is not chirped but away from the focal plane according to Oron . This optical setup allows the introduction of linear chirp and can be used for pulse characterization if one follows the methods disclosed in the present invention. The advantage of using the Oron optical setup for introducing linear chirp in combination with the present invention is that the entire linear chirp scan is accomplished for each laser shot thus allowing single shot spectral phase characterization.

An electromagnetic actuator such as a stepper motor operably changes the distance of retroreflector mirrors under automatic or manual control of controller . This movement introduces different amounts of linear chirp into the pulse. Scanning the distance from one end to the other allows the controller to accurately characterize the laser pulses for second and higher order spectral phase distortion. The MIIPS detector or spectrometer can obtain a NLO spectrum.

The nonadaptive optic member or pulse shaper of the present laser system operably introduces reference phases in the laser beam pulse. A detector e.g. spectrometer operably detects harmonic frequency intensities of the pulse and the controller automatically determines a matrix or data collection of the detected intensities versus the references phases. The controller then automatically determines a maximum intensity in the matrix for each frequency of the pulse and the controller assigns a value corresponding to each maximum intensity. Thereafter the controller automatically determines a second derivative of a spectral phase from the maximum intensity values for each frequency and the controller then calculates by double integration a spectral phase function of distortions in the pulse. The controller subsequently controls the nonadaptive optic member such as by moving or changing the position of a retroreflective mirror pair tiling a grating or the like to cancel the determined distortion in a subsequent pulse by introducing a negative value of the spectral phase function of distortions.

A first embodiment variation of a nonadaptive deformable optic apparatus is shown in and a second embodiment variation of an optic apparatus is shown in . These optic apparatuses can be placed inside the cavity of an ultrafast laser oscillator or in the stretcher of an amplifier. These optic apparatuses and each include a transparent substrate a reflective layer a holder and an adjustable actuator . Substrate and reflective layer serve as a wavefront adjustable mirror or a phase front adjustable mirror. Substrate is preferably a sheet of normally flat BK7 glass having a thickness dimension T of approximately 5 mm and a width dimension W of approximately 100 mm. More preferably substrate has a thickness T of 0.1 3 mm and a width dimension W of 10 20 mm.

Reflective layer is preferably a coating of MgO protected silver gold aluminum or a highly reflective dichroic material. In this embodiment holder is a polymeric housing having an opening to allow laser pulse access to reflective layer . An undercut ledge surrounding the opening retains substrate within holder .

Actuator is preferably a direct drive piezoelectric actuator which is controlled by a programmable computer controller connected to a voltage source . When energized the piezoelectric actuator linearly advances a ball or pin which in turn pushes against a backside of substrate thereby deflecting and bending the mirror by a deflection distance D of approximately 20 m although it is envisioned that the deflection distance D may be as great as 200 m. Acceptable piezoelectric actuators are model numbers NA 25 and NA 80 from Dynamic Structures Materials LLC of Franklin Tenn. The actuator introduces pressure as a response to voltage from source and is used with this invention for example and not limitation to introduce chirp or for scanning linear chirp in the laser beam pulse. Multiples of such piezoelectric actuators can be employed to mechanically deflect different portions of the mirror. Anywhere from 1 to 12 such piezoelectric actuators can be employed to bend adjacent surface areas of the mirror.

The laser system introduces a periodic function such as a saw tooth or a sinusoidal function that causes the reflective layer and substrate to vary the amount of linear chirp thus delivering n different reference phases and recording n different spectra containing the NLO intensity at m different frequencies. The controller then uses the n m data matrix to map the second derivative of the spectral phase function of the pulses being analyzed at the target. Once this function is obtained the controller numerically integrates it twice as a function of frequency in order to obtain the spectral phase distortions. Furthermore the phase front adjustable mirror application can be used in conjunction with a separate spectral phase measuring device preferably MIIPS but alternately FROG or SPIDER and the mirror can be automatically or manually adjusted until the desired pulse performance is delivered at the target. At that point the mirror remains static and ensures the desired pulse characteristics for subsequent pulses. Moreover the phase front adjustable mirror is deformable in two dimensions and can be used for single shot laser pulse characterization or to deliver a pulse having a variable spectral phase in one dimension.

A third embodiment variation of a nonadaptive deformable optic system is shown in . A thick substrate and reflective layer are preferably of the size and material types previously disclosed regarding . A holder however has multiple threaded bores which receive manually adjustable threaded screw actuators . Screw actuators are spaced apart from each other and located adjacent the peripheral edge surrounding a reflective front which is openly accessible to a laser beam pulse. A ball bearing or other pressure bearing member is placed between a leading end of each screw actuator and the adjacent surface of the mirror. A compression or Belleville spring may optionally be disposed between a head of each screw actuator and the adjacent surface of the holder to maintain the adjusted positioning during use. Accordingly each screw actuator can be individually adjusted in an incremental manner between multiple positions in order to deflect portions of the mirror differently.

Another version of the present laser system is even simpler and less expensive than many of the others and solely measures phase distortions. This version continuously changes the distance of a dispersive optic or bends the reflective optic and synchronously records a harmonic spectrum of the laser. It then displays in a monitor the three dimensional data consisting of a derivative of the phase y axis wavelength x axis and intensity z axis or color in a contour map . This device does not require a programmable controller. No calculations are needed to purely display the result since it only displays real time data. Alternately instead of moving the optic the reflective optic is bent in such a way that different portions impart positive or negative chirp to the pulse. Then a two dimensional CCD is used to record the spectrum of the harmonic intensities at the different chirp values all in one image. In this way no moving parts are needed and single laser shot measurements are possible.

Yet another variation of the present laser system is used solely for correction. In this situation the measurement is performed by a separate device e.g. FROG SPIDER MIIPS using interferometry an SLM a deformable passive optic or by changing the distance of at least one dispersive optic. Subsequently this is used to make a permanent spectral phase correction in which a passive optic located at a place where the beam is dispersed in conformed e.g. bent flexed deformed or otherwise reshaped so that it eliminates the phase distortions of the system that are being measured by the separate device. This laser system is constructed with at least one dispersive optic and one reflective optic although variations may be possible. It is noteworthy that no controller is required in this variation thereby reducing cost and complexity. Once the spectral phase is eliminated from the system the entire system is corrected in a permanent manner. It is envisioned that this variation allows for correction at the manufacturing source before shipping to a customer or user and this is applicable for femtosecond oscillators femtosecond amplifiers laser processing systems such as micromachining stations laser scribing stations laser surgery stations or the like two photon microscopy systems and the like. It is further envisioned that the present laser system may alternately be used for a combination of measuring and correcting for phase distortions.

In summary the direct ultrashort laser system of the present application is an improvement over currently known devices such as that disclosed in the previous significant advance of U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0056468 M. Dantus et al. . In an example of prior devices parameters are set in the software of the controller and the controller then introduces hundreds of different voltages that approximate a desired reference phase. A collection of different reference phases is applied by the controller to acquire a phase scan from which the phase distortions are determined. The prior controller then applies a negative of the phase distortion function whereafter the pulses are evaluated to see if the desired compression is achieved.

In contrast a new improvement provided in the present system employs optic hardware which is arranged to introduce a definite spectral phase delay and thereby introduces the reference phases. Using a single voltage the controller scans the optics in order to collect a phase scan. The second derivative of the spectral phase distortions is directly obtained from the phase scan without the prior sinusoidal phase to the second derivative calculations. In the present system once the second derivative is obtained it is used to determine the pulse duration and to make adjustments in a static and passive optic member to correct the spectral phase distortions at the point at which they are being measured i.e. the target .

As a further point of comparison optical hardware that can be adjusted to eliminate pulse distortions once the spectral phase corrections are known will be contrasted. In an exemplary prior construction the use of an adaptive pulse shaper makes it easy to introduce . The adaptive pulse shaper however is expensive and has undesirable intensity wavelength and bandwidth restrictions. This type of measurement and compression is conducted in about one minute and is often performed several times per day. But when the power of the adaptive pulse shaper is turned off the adjustment is lost and must be retrieved from memory and re implemented thereby causing delay and degrading computer performance.

In contrast a new improvement provided in certain nonlimiting embodiments of the present system employs a reflective surface that is adjusted e.g. bent deflected or deformed by as little as 0.1 mm and the spectral phase of the pulses can therefore be adjusted to eliminate undesired phase distortions or to introduce desired phase distortions. The adjustment is made once and is then maintained until further adjustments are desired but without the need for electrical power or a controller command. This mechanical adjustment e.g. threaded screws etc. can be made at the factory or at the location of the user.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed it should be realized that other variations may alternatively be employed. For example other actuators such as solenoids or servomotors can be used in place of the disclosed piezoelectric or screw actuators. Furthermore it is envisioned that the laser system may employ additional or less reflective mirror and differently arranged laser beam pulse paths. Moreover threaded set screws adjustable cams adjustable levers rack and pinion gears or other such finely adjustable mechanical actuators can be used to deflect the optic system mirrors. It is intended by the following claims to cover these and any other departures from the disclosed embodiments which fall within the true spirit of this invention.

