---

title: Nosecone ice protection system for a gas turbine engine
abstract: A system includes a first anti-icing electrothermal heater located at tip of a gas turbine engine nosecone, and a plurality of anti-icing electrothermal heater strips extending rearward from the first anti-icing electrothermal heater along the nosecone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07938368&OS=07938368&RS=07938368
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07938368
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080407
---
The present invention was developed under contract no. N00019 02 C 3003 for the United States Department of the Navy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Gas turbine engines for aerospace applications generally include a nose cone structure at a forward end where air enters the engine. During flight conditions there is a risk of ice accumulation on the nosecone. Ice formation on the nosecone can dislodge and be ingested by the engine potentially damaging the engine. Ice accumulation can also undesirably affect weight characteristics and aerodynamics at the nosecone.

Prior art solutions for ice protection have involved directing relatively warm engine bleed air into a hollow interior cavity of the nosecone for anti icing purposes. The bleed air helps maintain the nosecone at a temperature that does not allow ice to form. One disadvantage of bleed air for nosecone anti icing systems is that bleeding air from a primary engine flowpath represents an engine efficiency loss.

A system includes a first anti icing electrothermal heater located at tip of a gas turbine engine nosecone and a plurality of anti icing electrothermal heater strips extending rearward from the first anti icing electrothermal heater along the nosecone.

In general the present invention provides an electrothermal ice protection system for a gas turbine engine nosecone. The ice protection system utilizes a combination of substantially continuously heated anti icing zones at a forward tip portion and along a plurality of spaced parting strips that extend rearward from the forward tip portion to a rear edge of an ice impingement zone. Between the parting strips are de icing zones that are selectively heated to melt any ice that accumulates in those zones. The use of a combination of anti icing and de icing zones allows for relatively efficient use of electrical power while still providing a suitable level of ice protection for the nosecone. Moreover three or more parting strips can be provided in an equally circumferentially spaced arrangement so as to prevent ice from forming as single sheet covering a 180 or greater circumferential portion of the nosecone. In one embodiment electrothermal heaters are embedded in an interior surface of a nosecone made of composite material. As used herein the term anti icing refers to efforts to prevent ice from forming at selected areas and the term de icing refers to efforts to eliminate ice from selected areas.

In the illustrated embodiment the nosecone is static i.e. non rotating and is configured to be mounted along an engine centerline at the forward end of a gas turbine engine not shown for aerospace applications. The nosecone can be made of a composite material molded to the desired shape. The particular shape of the nosecone can vary as desired for particular applications. Airflow entering the gas turbine engine can impinge upon the nosecone . During some flight conditions ice can impinge upon or otherwise tend to form on the nosecone . Generally ice will impinge along the nosecone through an impingement zone having a length L in the axial direction . Absent an ice protection system such ice can accumulate and then dislodge in large pieces that are ingested by the engine which can undesirably lead to damage or wear to the engine.

In order to reduce ice accretion and ice related damage electrothermal heaters are employed according to the present invention in the anti icing tip zone the plurality of anti icing parting strips A C and the plurality of de iced zones A C. The electrothermal heaters can be embedded in the composite material along interior surfaces of the nosecone . Each electrothermal heater element can be of a conventional type for instance each can be formed as from a spray metal resistive layer disposed on fiberglass webs. Suitable electrothermal heater mats can be obtained from GKN plc. Redditch United Kingdom. Such electrothermal heater mats are then embedded in the nosecone during molding of the nosecone in a type of overmolding process whereby the electrothermal heater mats are epoxied directly to the nosecone .

In order to reduce overall electrical power demands the system is broken into anti icing and de icing zones. The electrothermal heaters in the anti icing tip zone and the anti icing parting strips A C operate to substantially continuously provide heat during engine operation or at least during flight. As shown for merely illustrative purposes in ice accretion along the nosecone tends to be greatest that is thickest at a forward tip portion of the nosecone though in operation the ice protection system would tend to prevent the illustrated ice accretion . The anti icing tip zone continuously provides heat at a location where ice accretion is relatively high thereby reducing a risk that ice is ever formed there on the nosecone and any ice that does form or impinge that area would be melted relatively quickly. The size of the anti icing tip zone is selected as a function of the distribution of anticipated ice impingement for a given shape of the nosecone where there is generally the greatest risk of ice impingement and accretion. The axial length of the anti icing tip portion as shown in the embodiment in is less than the length L of the ice impingement zone that extends along the nosecone which reduces the power expenditure required by the anti icing tip portion .

There is a risk that fluid downstream from the anti icing tip zone can undesirably freeze or refreeze on the nosecone . In order to reduce ice accretion downstream of the anti icing tip zone elongate electrothermal heater strips form a number of circumferentially spaced anti icing parting strips A C that extend from the anti icing tip portion to a downstream or aft limit of the ice impingement zone. The circumferential width of the anti icing parting strips A C can vary as desired for particular applications. In the illustrated embodiment the three anti icing parting strips A C are substantially equally circumferentially spaced from each other at angles of about 120 . It should be understood that the number and spacing of the anti icing parting strips A C can vary as desired however it is generally desirable to provide at least three anti icing parting strips A C to prevent the formation of a sheet of ice that covers a circumferential surface of the nosecone that is greater than or equal to 180 .

De icing zones A C that extend from the anti icing tip zone to the downstream limit of the ice impingement zone are provided between each of the anti icing parting strips A C. These de icing zones A C are selectively powered on and off by a controller according to a duty cycle to periodically de ice regions of the nosecone as a function of air conditions including air temperature and air flow at the nosecone see . Air condition data can be obtained from a main engine controller which conventionally will already collect and make available such data. In one embodiment the duty cycle powers the set of electrothermal heaters for all of the de icing zones A C simultaneously at approximately one minute intervals. By powering all of the de icing zones A C together the number of wires needed by the system can be reduced. In an alternative embodiment a different one of the de icing zones A C is powered at each duty cycle interval e.g. every one minute . In this embodiment power consumption can further be reduced.

A gap sized as small as possible and filled with a non electrically conductive material is present between the anti icing zone and the anti icing parting strips A C on the one hand and the de icing zones A C on the other hand in order to electrically insulate the electrothermal heaters for the anti icing and de icing zones and parting strips.

It should be recognized that the present invention provides numerous advantages. For example the present invention provides an electrically powered ice protection system for a nosecone of a gas turbine engine that can operate on a relatively small electrical power budget. Furthermore the present invention allows electrothermal heaters to be embedded in a composite nosecone. The electrothermal heaters can be embedded along interior surfaces of the nosecone which provides protection to the heaters from foreign object damage FOD and wear.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance although the present invention is described with respect to static i.e. non rotating nosecones the present invention could be applied to rotating nosecones as well with the use of slip rings or other means.

