---

title: Method and apparatus that enables remote operation of a pleasuring device through a communications network
abstract: A method and apparatus that enables remote operation of a pleasuring device through a communications network is disclosed. The method may include receiving one or more text strings at a first communication device from a second communication device through the communications network, recognizing one or more words or phrases from the received one or more text strings, determining if the recognized one or more words or phrases are found in a lexicon, matching the recognized one or more words or phrases with its corresponding action stored in the lexicon, and signaling the pleasuring device to perform the corresponding action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08449451&OS=08449451&RS=08449451
owner: 
number: 08449451
owner_city: Shenandoah Junction
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080811
---
This disclosure relates to pleasuring devices and in particular a method and apparatus that enables remote operation of a pleasuring device through a communications network.

Sales of adult sex toys or pleasuring devices continue to increase each year. While some individuals may seek to enjoy these toys in private others may wish to participate with his or her partner for example. However the individual s partner may be in a different geographic location overseas etc. which currently makes such participation limited to audio and visual contact.

A method and apparatus that allows remote operation of a pleasuring device through a communications network is disclosed. The method may include receiving one or more text strings at a first communication device from a second communication device through the communications network recognizing one or more words or phrases from the received one or more text strings determining if the recognized one or more words or phrases are found in a lexicon matching the recognized one or more words or phrases with its corresponding action stored in the lexicon and signaling the pleasuring device to perform the corresponding action.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosure. The features and advantages of the disclosure may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the disclosure as set forth herein.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The disclosure comprises a variety of embodiments such as a method and apparatus and other embodiments that relate to the basic concepts of the disclosure. This disclosure may concern the message flow and processing used to control external devices such as adult sex toys pleasuring devices or other remote devices from incoming Short Message Service SMS or text messages instant messages IM or chat services that may be sent and received to from a communications device such as a computer cell phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. for example.

This process may assume the following services provided by the host messaging device i.e. computer laptop PDA cell phone etc. 

While the process may be slightly different based on the particular host device employed laptop personal computer cell phone PDA only the incoming message probe and scan component may actually change based on the message type being processed e.g. SMS IM etc. .

The process may utilize several key elements in order to achieve control over remote external devices using a very simple interface. These elements may include 

This process allows the receiving communication device to retain overriding operation over the controlled device at all times.

With respect to controlling devices via IM or chat services incoming messages may arrive at the user s communication device and may be sent to the IM or chat application such as America Online Instant Messaging AIM Trillian Yahoo etc. . The operation module may insert a software probe into the IM application via a plug in module or application programming interface API API callback for example may receive a copy of the message and address information such as the contact name and IM service . The original message may be sent on to the IM application without modification.

The copied message may be checked by the operation module to see if the sender is a currently enabled contact. If not no scan is performed and the application idles until another message arrives Assuming the contact is currently active and enabled the operation module may scan the actual message to search for the inclusion of any of the capture words or phrases currently configured for the contact and the enabled device. Note that the capture phrase word or symbol may be embedded anywhere in the message i.e. it can be a part of a word or phrase or any part of the sent message for example . If no matching phrase is found the operation module may idle until another message arrives. If a matching capture phrase is found the operation module may process the associated command for the device and initiate a control sequence to the appropriate wireless interface such as BLUETOOTH for transmission to the device itself.

With respect to controlling devices via SMS as used by mobile devices cell phones PDAs etc. the operation module may add itself as a destination for messages coming from enabled users part of the SMS API interface for example . The SMS processing may also optionally wake up the operation module if required. A copy of the SMS may be sent to the operation module and the operation module may send the original message to the SMS application without modification.

Thus the primary difference between SMS and IM message processing is the way the device control application hooks itself into the message stream. For IM and chat services it scans incoming messages for enabled users. For SMS it adds itself as a destination for enabled users. From this point on processing may be nearly identical to the processing for IM messaging. As such the copied message may be checked by the operation module to see if the sender is a currently enabled contact. If not no scan is performed and the operation module may idle until another message arrives.

Assuming the contact is currently active and enabled the operation module may scan the actual message for the inclusion of any of the capture phrases currently configured for the contact and for the enabled device. Note that the capture phrase word or symbol may be embedded anywhere in the message i.e. it can be a part of a word or phrase or any part of the sent message . If no matching phrase is found the operation module may idle until another message arrives.

If a matching capture phrase is found the operation module may process the associated command for the remote device and initiate a control sequence for the appropriate wireless interface such as BLUETOOTH for transmission to the device itself. The device configuration file may contain the particular associated transmission command sequence for the matching capture phrase.

Actual transmission of the command sequence may be performed via the communication device s laptop PDA etc. wireless communication interface such as the BLUETOOTH interface protocols for example . Acknowledgement of the command by the communication device may be expected for those devices having that capability i.e. the remote device replies with a command received acknowledgement message for example and repeat transmission may be undertaken until the device is properly running the command or the transmission attempt times out e.g. settings for this feature may be found in the device configuration file .

The pleasuring device may have an internal microcontroller to interpret the digital commands sent by the controlling software via the appropriate wireless interface BLUETOOTH . The internal microcontroller may respond with an acknowledgement message and then operates the desired control interface accordingly typically setting a signal level ON or OFF as needed by the particular device . Some messages from the controlling software may not precipitate any actions other than responding with a status or other message back to the controlling software e.g. status check messages battery level status messages etc. .

Action messages may include ON OFF SEQUENCE PULSE TOGGLE or any other message needed to control a particular device. These messages may be created uniquely for each device s microcontroller for use by the application software and may be unlimited in their potential variety i.e. whatever messages needed to control a given device may be created for example .

Network may represent any possible communications network including wireless telephone networks hardwired telephone networks wireless local area networks WLAN the Internet an intranet etc.

The communication device may be a computer personal computer portable computer server portable MP3 player satellite radio receiver AM FM radio receiver satellite television portable music player wireless radio wireless telephone portable digital video recorder cellular telephone mobile telephone personal digital assistant PDA etc. or combinations of the above for example that is capable of communicating with another communication device through a network .

The pleasuring device may be any device that may be remotely operated by a user such as an adult sex toy a children s toy a pet toy etc. The pleasuring device may be movable in a variety of manners and at various speeds including moving in one or more directions spin twist vibrate etc. The pleasuring device may contain a processor and communication interface in order to receive wireless commands such as on off movement commands etc. using wireless technology such as BLUETOOTH for example. The pleasuring device may also operate in a wired communication fashion through a Universal Serial Bus USB port for example located on the communication device .

As an adult sex toy the pleasuring device may be suited for a male or female to serve a plurality of purposes such as massaging touching stimulation etc. As a children s toy or pet toy the pleasuring device may be a toy that may talk move make noise etc. in order to entertain the child or pet from a remote location. For example a pet owner may enable the pleasuring device at the receiving communication device prior to leaving and may interact with their pet using the pleasuring device such as a toy ball mouse etc. from a remote location.

Processor may include at least one conventional processor or microprocessor that interprets and executes instructions. Memory may be a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor . Memory may also store temporary variables or other intermediate information used during execution of instructions by processor . Memory may also include any type of media such as for example magnetic or optical recording media and its corresponding drive. ROM may include a conventional ROM device or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for processor .

Input devices may include one or more conventional mechanisms that permit a user to input information to the communication device such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice recognition device etc. Output devices may include one or more conventional mechanisms that output information to the user including a printer one or more speakers or a medium such as a memory or a magnetic or optical disk and a corresponding disk drive.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables the communication device to communicate via a network. For example communication interface may include a modem or an Ethernet interface for communicating via a local area network LAN . Alternatively communication interface may include other mechanisms for communicating with other devices and or systems via wired wireless or optical connections. In some implementations of the communication device communication interface may not be included in the exemplary the runway traffic management unit when the runway traffic management process is implemented completely within the communication device .

The lexicon may include a plurality of words and phrases that have a corresponding action associated with each word and phrase. The corresponding action may be an action that may be performed by the pleasuring device for example. The words and phrases and corresponding actions may be specific to a particular pleasuring device or to a particular partner or contact from a remote communication device for example. Thus a user at the communication device may set up profiles for their own or another s preferences for particular pleasuring devices or for particular partners or contacts with which they may desire to communicate. The profiles may be stored in the lexicon or in another memory location such as memory for example.

For example the pleasuring device profiles may includes information about the types of control signals each device requires On Off Toggle etc. the name of the device additional control options and buttons available to the user and any other device specific information. In this manner as new devices become available to the user only this one configuration file may need to be updated to accommodate them. All the user dialogs and setup screens may be dynamically configurable according to the information in the device control file such as a .xml file.

The communication device may perform such functions in response to processor by executing sequences of instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as for example memory a magnetic disk or an optical disk. Such instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from a separate device via communication interface .

The communication device illustrated in and the related discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the disclosure may be implemented. Although not required the disclosure will be described at least in part in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by the communication device such as a general purpose computer. Generally program modules include routine programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

For illustrative purposes the exemplary operation of the pleasuring device operation module and the pleasuring device operation process will be described below in relation to the diagrams shown in .

After receiving the one or more text string the pleasuring device operation module may also check to see if the sender is a currently enabled contact from the user s profile user interface selection etc. for example. If the sender is not an enabled contact the lexicon may not be search for words and phrases in the text string and the pleasuring device operation module may idle until another test string arrives.

At step the pleasuring device operation module may recognize one or more words or phrases from the received one or more text strings using any text recognition algorithm known to those of skill in the art. At step the pleasuring device operation module determines if the recognized one or more words or phrases are found in the lexicon . If the pleasuring device operation module determines that the recognized one or more words or phrases are not found in the lexicon the process may go to step and end.

However if the pleasuring device operation module determines that the recognized one or more words or phrases are found in the lexicon then at step the pleasuring device operation module matches the recognized one or more words or phrases with its corresponding action. At step the pleasuring device operation module signals the pleasuring device to perform the corresponding action. The process may go to step and end.

The capture phrases or words are phrases that the pleasuring device operation module may look for to activate or turn off the pleasuring device . The capture sequence phrase looks for a text item to begin a sequence session for example.

The default off behavior may allow the receiving user to set a time to shut off the selected pleasuring device even if the sender never chooses to do so. In this manner it is possible for the receiving user to enable a user trigger the device from an innocent phrase and have the pleasuring device turn itself off without the sender even being aware the receiver has a pleasuring device and that they are sending control signals for the pleasuring device .

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components and data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Although the above description may contain specific details they should not be construed as limiting the claims in any way. Other configurations of the described embodiments of the disclosure are part of the scope of this disclosure. For example the principles of the disclosure may be applied to each individual user where each user may individually deploy such a system. This enables each user to utilize the benefits of the disclosure even if any one of the large number of possible applications do not need the functionality described herein. In other words there may be multiple instances of the components in the disclosed embodiments each processing the content in various possible ways. It does not necessarily need to be one system used by all end users. Accordingly the appended claims and their legal equivalents should only define the disclosure rather than any specific examples given.

