---

title: Lightweight cartridge case
abstract: Disclosed is an ammunition cartridge case that includes a sleeve, a base fixedly attached to the sleeve and a fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus that is at least partially within the base. In certain embodiments, the sleeve and the base are formed partly or entirely from a metal, for example steel or stainless steel. The base has a central aperture that affords for the annulus ring to fit within. The annulus is dimensioned such that it fits securely within the central aperture of the base and has a center aperture wherein a primer can be located. The annulus ring contains a volume of composite fibers ranging from 10 to 90 volume percent. The annulus isolates the primer from the cartridge case and thereby prevents galvanic corrosion between the primer and case. In addition, a metallic foil can be present between the annulus and the cartridge case in order to assure proper securement of the annulus therewithin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08156870&OS=08156870&RS=08156870
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08156870
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080612
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates generally to an ammunition cartridge cases lightweight metallic ammunition cartridge cases lightweight metal ammunition cartridge cases and lightweight steel ammunition cartridge cases.

Ammunition cartridge cases serve many purposes by providing the ability to combine a projectile a primer and a propellant into one complete system. This complete system allows for a cartridge to be placed within a weapon and fired such that the projectile exits a barrel of the weapon at a high rate of speed in an attempt to strike a desired target. During combustion of the cartridge the cartridge case obturates a chamber of the weapon as a result of pressure exerted thereon by gunpowder combustion gases while providing a finite volume for the controlled ignition of the gunpowder to take place. After firing of the ammunition the cartridge case has served its purpose and is typically discarded recycled or reloaded.

While primer and gunpowder serve critical roles in conveying the projectile toward a desired target the cartridge packaging does not directly progress the projectile toward the target and as such cartridge modification would minimally affect the overall system performance. Thus if a lightweight cartridge case could be engineered such that the system provided the same functionality but with a lighter weight an overall system performance increase could be obtained. For example a soldier or individual could carry additional ammunition at the same basic load or carry an equal amount of ammunition with a reduced weight burden. Similar benefits could be demonstrated on larger mobile platforms such as aircraft where weight limiting factors also exist.

Small caliber ammunition cartridge cases typically consist of brass that has been formed through a series of cold working and annealing steps. This process results in a graded microstructure that produces higher hardness and strength near the base of the cartridge and a graded hardness and strength along the length of the sleeve sidewalls. The base of the cartridge is substantially thicker than the remainder of the cartridge as it serves to hold the primer in place as well as allow for extraction of the cartridge case from the weapon after firing. Thus the base area possesses the highest mass of the entire cartridge. Weight savings of the ammunition can be obtained by substituting steel for brass. However to achieve larger reductions in weight for the ammunition additional changes are needed. Therefore an ammunition cartridge case with greater weight savings compared to traditional brass cartridge cases is desired.

Disclosed is an ammunition cartridge case that includes a sleeve a base fixedly attached to the sleeve and a fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus at least partially within the base. The base has a central aperture that affords for the annulus to fit within. In certain desirable embodiments the sleeve and the base are made of a metal or a metallic material. In certain more desirable embodiments the sleeve and the base are made of steel. In still more desirable embodiments the sleeve and the base are made of a stainless steel.

In some instances the steel base is integral with the steel sleeve and the steel base has an extractor groove. The fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus is dimensioned such that it can be placed securely within the central aperture of the steel base and has a center aperture wherein a primer can be located. The annulus ring may contain a volume of composite fibers ranging from 10 to 90 volume percent. The annulus isolates the primer from the steel cartridge case and thereby prevents galvanic corrosion between the primer and case. In addition a metallic foil can be present between the annulus and the steel cartridge case in order to assure proper securement of the annulus therewithin.

The present invention is a lightweight cartridge case having a base with a fiber reinforced polymer composite annul us therewithin. As such the present invention has utility as a cartridge case for ammunition.

In the exemplary embodiment described and illustrated herein the lightweight cartridge case includes a steel sleeve and a steel base. However it is suggested that the sleeve and or base can be formed entirely or partially from another metal or another material for example a metallic material. In some instances the steel base is integral with the steel sleeve and the steel case is formed as one unit. The steel base has a central aperture. Within the central aperture a fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus is located the annulus operable to have a primer placed within and to withstand the pressures generated from the firing of the cartridge. An overall weight reduction is obtained based on the lower density of the apertured steel base and fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus relative to a conventional cartridge case. Extending from the steel base and to the steel sleeve is a flash hole that affords for the ignition of a propellant that is within the steel sleeve after the primer has been detonated. The steel sleeve is lighter than a comparable brass sleeve and the fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus is lighter than the steel that would be present if the annulus were not used. As such a weight savings in a small caliber ammunition cartridge case is afforded relative to a conventional cartridge case of like caliber and powder capacity.

Referring now to there is shown generally in an embodiment of an inventive steel cartridge case at reference numeral . The cartridge case has a steel body a steel sleeve terminating in a mouth end and a base end . The mouth end is operable to accept and attach a projectile not shown to the body . An interior volume is defined between the mouth end and the base end . The volume affords a locale for gunpowder to be located and stored.

Joined to the base end of the steel sleeve is a steel base . At least partially within the base of the steel body is a fiber reinforced polymer composite annulus . At least partially within the annulus is a primer . For illustrative purposes the primer is depicted as a shell empty of ignition powder.

The case body can be formed from a single piece of steel through a series of cold working and annealing steps. In the alternative the steel sleeve can be formed separate from the steel base and joined by conventional steel forming techniques such as induction welding and the like and subsequently polished as needed. Alternatively an inventive case body is readily formed by machining a steel boule.

An exploded view of the base region is shown in . The base optionally includes an extraction groove which is illustrated for exemplary purposes as a depression or groove around the circumference of the base . The extraction groove affords a surface for an autoloader extractor claw to grab the cartridge case and pull it from a firing chamber of a weapon not shown .

Within the base is a central aperture said aperture having a sidewall and a top wall . Extending from the central aperture to the interior volume is a flash hole . The central aperture of the base is a void in the steel base and thus affords a net reduction in weight for the steel cartridge case by an amount equal to the difference in weight between the annulus and a like volume of base metal.

The annulus has an outer sidewall and an inner sidewall . Between the outer sidewall and the inner sidewall is a fiber reinforced polymer composite. A top end and a bottom end also bound the fiber reinforced polymer composite. Preferably the outer sidewall is complementary to sidewall . More preferably top end sits flush against top wall so as to resist combustion gas escape therebetween. Fibers within the annulus can have a variety of orientations such as hoop oriented fiber orientations and axially oriented fiber orientations and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments from about 50 to about 80 number percent of the fibers have a hoop orientation. In other embodiments from about 20 to about 60 number percent of the fibers have an axial orientation.

The fibers can be made from a variety of materials that provide strength to the annulus illustratively including but not limited to glass carbon polymeric materials illustratively including but not limited to poly paraphenylene terephthalamide an example of which is sold under the tradename KEVLAR polymetaphenylene isophtalamide an example of which is sold under the tradename NOMEX poly paraphenylene terephthalamide copolymer an example of which is sold under the tradename TECHNORA polyamide imide an example of which is sold under the tradename KERMEL copolyimide an example of which is sold under the tradename P84 polyurethane polyepoxy poly vinyl ester polyphenol polybenzoxazole polyamides polyethylene ultra high molecular weight polyethylene for example polyethylenes having a molecular weight of greater than 1 million and M5 synthetic fibers. In some instances carbon fibers are used and are selected from short chopped carbon fibers aligned continuous carbon fibers woven carbon fibers non woven carbon fibers and combinations thereof. Suggested diameters for fibers within the annulus range from about 0.5 to about 100 microns. In some embodiments the average fiber diameter ranges from about 1 to about 50 microns and in other embodiments the average fiber diameter ranges from about 5 to about 10 microns.

A polymer within the annulus provides a matrix and can be selected from thermoplastic polymers and or thermosetting polymers. In some instances the annulus is made by pressure assisted infusion of a flowable polymer into a dry fabric. It is appreciated that pressure assisted infusion includes vacuum assisted infusion. In addition the pressure assistance or vacuum assistance infusion can be applied to assist a flowable thermosetting resin polymerizable thermoplastic prepolymer or dissolved thermoplastic polymers into the dry fabric. The relative proportion of a chosen polymer as the matrix for the annulus ranges between about 10 volume percent to about 50 volume percent. In some instances the polymer within the annulus ranges from about 15 volume percent to about 40 volume percent. It is appreciated that an annulus with a lower proportion of polymer provides a harder object whereas a higher proportion of polymer provides a member that is more shapeable. It is also appreciated that the balance of the annulus includes one or more of the fibers mentioned above and or any other type of fiber that can provide strength to the annulus .

The annulus is also readily made from thin sheets containing fiber which are impregnated with a polymer. The relative orientation of the fiber is optionally set within the thin sheet before the polymer is impregnated with a polymer s and once secured the annulus can be cut out of the sheet. Naturally other methods of manufacture are possible so long as an annulus member having the required chemical mechanical and physical properties is obtained.

The annulus is dimensioned such that the distance between the top end and the bottom end is generally equivalent to the distance between the top wall of the central aperture and a head end of the base . In this manner the annulus fits generally flush with the head end of the base . The annulus is also dimensioned such that the inner sidewall defines a diameter that affords for the primer to be located therewithin. The annulus is sealed in aperture through friction fit or optionally through resort to a layer of an adhesive and or optionally a layer of metal foil . Adhesive may be applied between side wall of the base and side wall of the annulus.

The primer has a sidewall a top end and a strike end . The primer is placed within the annulus with the sidewall at least partially in contact with the inner sidewall . In some instances the aperture of the annulus is dimensioned such that the primer can be press fit therein. Optionally an adhesive serves to secure the primer into the annulus . A distance between the top end and the strike head of the primer is generally equivalent to the distance between the top end and the bottom end of the annulus . In this manner the primer with the strike head is generally flush with the head end of the base .

Advantageously the annulus being made from a fiber reinforced polymer composite affords for the isolation of the primer from the steel body . The isolation of the primer from the steel case advantageously affords for the prevention of galvanic corrosion between a primer having a dissimilar composition such as a copper or copper alloy surface and the steel case . A metallic foil is optionally located between the annulus and the base . A metallic foil may be located therebetween in order to provide improved adhesion of the annulus inside the base the foil being made from any metallic material known to those skilled in the art illustratively including but not limited to copper copper alloys stainless steel aluminum aluminum alloys titanium and titanium alloys.

The foregoing drawing discussion and description are illustrative of specific embodiments of the present invention but they are not meant to be limitations upon the practice thereof. Numerous modifications and variations of the invention will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the teaching presented herein. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

