---

title: Method and thermally active multi-phase heat transfer apparatus and method for abstracting heat from individual's wrist
abstract: Cold pack apparatus for abstracting heat comprises a container charged with a first liquid and with small auxiliary containers free to circulate in the first liquid. Each of the small auxiliary containers is charged with a second liquid. The first and second liquids each have a selected temperature of transformation that facilitates use of the apparatus to heat or cool a substance contacted by the apparatus. The cold pack apparatus reduces pain at a joint or at a diseased area in the epithelium by producing spaced apart points of cold at the joint or diseased area for an extended period of time of one hours or more.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08277497&OS=08277497&RS=08277497
owner: 
number: 08277497
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080925
---
This application claims priority based on provisional applications 60 997 096 filed Sep. 28 2007 and 61 188 594 filed Aug. 11 2008 and is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 12 215 225 filed Jun. 26 2008 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 809 205 filed May 31 2007 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 209 354 filed Aug. 23 2005 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 751 061 filed Jan. 2 2004 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 463 055 filed Jun. 17 2003 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 274 161 filed Oct. 18 2002.

More particularly the invention pertains to an improved apparatus and method which utilizes a matrix comprised of liquids and solids to abstract over an extended period of time heat from a substance.

In a further respect the invention pertains to an improved apparatus of the type described which utilizes a plurality of heat transfer elements having three dimensional parity.

In another respect the invention pertains to an improved heat abstracting apparatus of the type described which convects heat along paths intermediate spaced apart heat transfer elements.

In still a further respect the invention pertains to an improved apparatus and method of the type described in which heat transfer elements are shaped to absorb heat along vertical and lateral paths.

In still another respect the invention pertains to an improved simplified method of manufacturing a heat transfer device.

In yet a further respect the invention pertains to an improved heat abstracting apparatus of the type described which provides efficient transfer using a single heat transfer element liquid interface.

So called cold packs are well known and typically for example comprise pliable hollow vinyl containers filled with a gelatin. In use the cold pack is frozen and is placed against an individual s neck or other part of the individual s body to cool the individual. One such conventional cold pack is marketed under the trademark THERAPAC and comprises a twelve inch by twelve inch two ply vinyl container filled with a white odorless insoluble gelatin. Another conventional cold pack is marketed under the trademark COLPAC and comprises a twelve inch by twelve inch single ply polymer container filled with a gray odorless soluble gelatin. Such conventional cold packs are widely disseminated and effectively absorb heat. One principal disadvantage of such cold packs is that they have a relatively short lived ability to stay cold. For example when the THERAPAC and COLPAC cold packs noted above are removed from a freezer the temperature on the outer surface of the cold pack can be five degrees F. After about an hour the temperature can be about forty five to fifty degrees F. After about two hours the temperature on the outer surface of the cold packs can be about fifty two to fifty eight degrees F. After about three hours the temperature can be about sixty five to seventy degrees F. Consequently after only an hour the temperature of the outer surface of each of the cold packs is well above freezing.

Accordingly it would be highly desirable to provide an improved cold pack which would after being exposed to ambient temperature maintain a low temperature for an extended period of time.

Therefore it is a principal object of the invention to provide an improved apparatus for abstracting heat from a solid liquid gas or other substance.

A further object of the instant invention is to provide an improved cold pack which will maintain a cold temperature for an extended period of time after being exposed to a temperature greater than that of the cold pack.

Still a further object of the invention is to provide a heat transfer device that facilitates conforming the device to the contour of the body.

Still another object of the invention is to provide an improved heat transfer device with a module matrix that facilitates folding the device and partitioning the device.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide an improved heat transfer device with a module matrix that facilitates pressure equalization and convection and the uniform transfer of heat.

Briefly in accordance with the invention I provide an improved heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device includes a hollow primary container including a wall and a first liquid housed in the container and includes at least one hollow auxiliary container in the first liquid and including a wall and a second liquid housed in the auxiliary container. The second liquid has a freezing point less than the freezing point of the first liquid.

In another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method for cooling a substance. The method includes the steps of providing a heat transfer device. The heat transfer device includes a hollow primary container including a wall and a first liquid housed in the container. The primary container also includes at least one hollow auxiliary container in the first liquid. The auxiliary container includes a wall and a second liquid housed in the auxiliary container. The second liquid has a freezing point less than the freezing point of the first liquid. The method also includes the steps of cooling the heat transfer device to freeze the second liquid and contacting the substance with the heat transfer device.

In a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method for cooling a substance. The method includes the step of providing a heat transfer device. The heat transfer device includes a hollow primary container. The primary container includes a wall and a first liquid housed in the container. The primary container also includes at least one hollow auxiliary container in the first liquid. The hollow auxiliary container includes a wall and a second liquid housed in the wall of the auxiliary container. The second liquid has a freezing point less than the freezing point of the first liquid. The method also includes the steps of cooling the heat transfer device to freeze the second liquid and contacting the substance with the heat transfer device such that heat is abstracted from the substance into the first liquid by conduction through the wall of the primary container such that heat abstracted into the first liquid by conduction through the wall of the primary container causes the liquid to have a nonuniform temperature and produces circulatory motion in the liquid due to variation in the density of the liquid and the action of gravity and such that heat is abstracted from the first liquid by the conduction through the wall of the auxiliary container.

In still another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device includes an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of hollow fluid tight containers connected to a portion of said wall and extending from the wall into the inner space a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid tight containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a second heat exchange composition in each of the hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation.

In still a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved two phase single wall bi directional heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device includes an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of hollow fluid containers mounted on the outer wall in the inner space each of the containers including a top and at least one side a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a second heat exchange composition in each of the hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation. The side of each of the hollow fluid tight containers is substantially normal to the top such that heat traveling through the hollow fluid container between the first and second heat exchange compositions travels in a first direction through the top and in a second direction through the side. The first direction is substantially normal to the second direction.

In yet another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device includes an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of spaced apart hollow fluid containers mounted in said inner space above said outer wall each of said containers including a top and at least one side a floor interconnecting the hollow fluid tight containers a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation a second heat exchange composition in each of said hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation the wall floor and fluid containers being shaped and dimensioned such that heat absorbed through the wall by the first heat exchange composition is carried by convection intermediate the hollow fluid containers and into contact with the sides of the containers and with the floor.

In yet a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device includes an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of hollow fluid containers mounted in the inner space a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation a second heat exchange composition in each of hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a pump for circulating the first heat exchange composition into contact with the fluid containers.

In still yet another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved pliable two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device comprises an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of spaced apart hollow fluid tight containers connected to a portion of the wall extending from the wall into the inner space and including rounded bottoms to facilitate folding adjacent ones of the fluid containers against one another a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid tight containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a second heat exchange composition in each of the hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation.

In yet still a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method for manufacturing a two phase single wall bi directional heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The improved method includes the steps of providing a first sheet of pliable material forming a pan with the sheet of material the pan including a peripheral lip extending around the pan charging the pan with a first heat exchange composition comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation providing a second sheet of pliable material forming a module matrix with the second sheet of material the module matrix including a peripheral edge and including a plurality of modules each with a bottom and an open top placing the module matrix in the pan such that the bottom of each module extends into the first heat exchange composition administering a second heat exchange composition to each of the modules comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation liquid and sealing the first composition in the pan and the second composition in the module matrix.

In another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved pliable two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device comprises an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of spaced apart hollow fluid tight containers connected to a portion of the wall extending from the wall into the inner space and including rounded bottoms to facilitate folding adjacent ones of the fluid containers against one another a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid tight containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a second heat exchange composition in each of the hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation. A plurality of channels interconnects pairs of the hollow containers to promote the flow of liquid therebetween.

In a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved pliable two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device comprises a plurality of matrix units each including an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of spaced apart hollow fluid tight containers connected to a portion of the wall extending from the wall into the inner space a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid tight containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a second heat exchange composition in each of the hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation. The heat transfer device also includes a fastening system for interconnecting the matrix units along at least a pair of separate spaced apart lines of weakening to enable the heat transfer device to be mounted over the shoulders and around the neck of an individual.

In still another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved pliable two phase single wall heat transfer device for use in contacting and drawing heat away from a substance. The heat transfer device comprises plurality of matrix units each including an outer wall circumscribing and enclosing an inner space a plurality of spaced apart hollow fluid tight containers connected to a portion of the wall extending from the wall into the inner space a first heat exchange composition in the inner space contacting each of the fluid tight containers and comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation and a second heat exchange composition in each of the hollow containers comprising a liquid which undergoes a change of state from the liquid phase to the solid phase at a selected temperature of transformation. The heat transfer device also includes a fastening system for detachably interconnecting the matrix units in a plurality of different configurations along at least a pair of separate spaced apart lines of weakening to enable the heat transfer device to conform to different portions of an individual s body.

In still a further embodiment of the invention I provide a method for drawing heat away from a substance. The method comprises the steps of conducting heat from the substance through a first sheet into a first fluid reservoir moving heat by liquid convection in the reservoir conducting through a second sheet into a second fluid reservoir heat transported by liquid convection in the first fluid reservoir and moving heat by liquid convection from the second fluid reservoir to the first fluid reservoir.

In yet still another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method of treating tissue to reduce inflammation and promote healing. The method comprises the steps of providing cooling apparatus that maintains a temperature in the range of thirty three degrees F. to forty degrees F. for at least four hours when contacting the epithelium and contacting the epithelium adjacent the tissue with the cooling apparatus to provide a temperature in the range of thirty three degrees F. to forty degrees F. continuously for a period of time of at least four hours.

In yet still a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method of treating tissue to reduce inflammation and promote healing. The method comprises the steps of providing cooling apparatus with spaced apart modules that each have a bottom and maintain a temperature in the range of thirty three to forty degrees F. for at least four hours when contacting the epithelium the modules being spaced apart a distance in the range of eight mm to twelve mm and having a width and height each in the range of eighteen mm to thirty two millimeters and of contacting the epithelium adjacent the tissue with the bottoms of the spaced apart modules for a continuous period of time of at least four hours.

In another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method of treating carpal tunnel syndrome in the wrists of an individual. The method comprises the steps of providing a computer keyboard providing an elongate cooling wrist support comprising a heat conductive metal including a hollow inner space and providing a cooling apparatus that maintains a temperature in the range of thirty three degrees F. to forty degrees F. for at least thirty minutes the cooling apparatus shaped and dimensioned to slide into at least a portion of the hollow inner space. The cooling apparatus comprises a pan housing with a rounded top and a substantially flat bottom a plurality of spaced apart modules inside said pan housing each with a rounded top and a substantially flat bottom and detached from the pan housing a first fluid in the modules having a first freezing temperature and a second fluid in the pan housing intermediate the housing and the modules the second fluid having a second freezing temperature different from the first freezing temperature. The method also includes the steps of cooling the elongate cooling unit to freeze at least one of the first and second fluids placing the cooled cooling unit in the hollow inner space of the wrist support to contact and cool the wrist support placing the wrist support generally adjacent the key board such that an individual can place his wrists on the wrist support and operate with his hands the keyboard and positioning the wrists of the individual on the wrist support such that the individual can operate the keyboard with the individual s hands.

In a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method of treating carpal tunnel syndrome in the wrist of an individual. The method comprises the steps of providing a mouse stand with a mouse pad and a stand providing an elongate cooling wrist support comprising a heat conductive metal including a hollow inner space providing a cooling apparatus that maintains a temperature in the range of thirty three degrees F. to forty degrees F. for at least thirty minutes. The cooling apparatus is shaped and dimensioned to slide into at least a portion of the hollow inner space and comprises a pan housing with a rounded top and a substantially flat bottom a plurality of spaced apart modules inside said pan housing each with a rounded top and a substantially flat bottom and detached from the pan housing a first fluid in the modules having a first freezing temperature and a second fluid in the pan housing intermediate the housing and the modules the second fluid having a second freezing temperature different from the first freezing temperature. The method also includes the steps of cooling the elongate cooling unit to freeze at least one of the first and second fluids placing the cooled cooling unit in the hollow inner space of the wrist support to contact and cool the wrist support placing the wrist support on the step of the stand such that an individual can place a wrist on the wrist support and operate with his hand a mouse on the mouse pad and positioning the wrist of the individual on the wrist support such that the individual can operate the mouse with the individual s hand.

In still another embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method of stabilizing the wrist and hand of an individual. The hand has an upper knuckle side and a lower palm side. The wrist has a top adjacent the upper side of the hand a bottom side adjacent the palm side of the hand and sides extending between the top side and bottom side. The method comprises the steps of providing an elongate cooling wrist support. The wrist support comprises a first elongate splint panel having a first edge and a second edge a second elongate splint panel generally parallel to the first elongate splint panel and having a third edge and a fourth edge a first section of elastic material interconnecting the first edge of the first splint panel and the third edge of the second splint panel and sized to stretch when the wrist support is mounted on the individual s wrist and hand a second section of elastic material interconnecting the second edge of the first splint panel and the third edge of the second splint panel and sized to stretch when said wrist support is mounted on the individual s wrist and hand an opening a cold pack housing extending over the opening and a cold pack shaped and dimensioned to be inserted in the cold pack housing. The method includes the further steps of cooling the cold pack in a refrigerator or freezer placing the cold pack in the cold back housing and sliding the individual s wrist and hand into the wrist support such that the first elongate splint panel extends over the top of the wrist the second elongate splint panel extends over the bottom of the wrist the first and second sections of elastic material elastically stretch and the cold pack is adjacent the individual s wrist.

In still a further embodiment of the invention I provide an improved method of cooling the head of an individual. The method comprises the steps of providing a plurality of cold packs each having a longitudinal axis and providing a flow wrap machine. The flow wrap machine has a roll of a strip of heat sealable fabric a first processing station to wrap the strip of fabric around one of the cold packs and heat seal the strip of fabric along a line generally parallel to the longitudinal axis a second processing station to heat seal the strip of fabric at spaced apart intervals therealong apparatus to feed the cold packs sequentially into the first processing station and apparatus to move the strip of fabric from the roll through the first and second processing stations to form a strip of separate interconnected sealed packets and insert the cold packs in selected ones of the sealed packets to produce a headband with the selected ones of the sealed packets containing said cold packs and with others of said sealed packets empty and functioning as ties. The method also includes the steps of producing a headband with the flow wrap machine placing the headband in a freezer to cool the cold packs removing the headband from the freezer and mounting the headband on the individual s head with said ties.

Turning now to the drawings which depict the presently preferred embodiments of the invention for the purpose of illustrating the practice thereof and not by way of limitation of the scope of the invention and in which like reference characters refer to corresponding elements throughout the several views illustrates a heat transfer device generally identified by reference character . Device includes a spherical hollow primary container having a wall including spherical outer surface and spherical inner surface . A liquid is housed inside the primary container. At least one auxiliary spherical hollow container is in and free to move and circulate about the reservoir formed by liquid . Each hollow container includes a spherical wall having a spherical outer surface and a spherical inner surface . A liquid is housed inside each auxiliary container . Liquid has a lower cooler freezing point than liquid and preferably but not necessarily has a freezing point lower than the coldest temperatures found in conventional household or commercial freezers. By way of example and not limitation liquid presently comprises propylene glycol and liquid comprises water. Liquid preferably has a freezing point greater or equal to the coldest temperature found in conventional household or commercial freezers.

Other examples of compositions that can be utilized as liquid or liquid include aqueous solutions of ethyl alcohol methyl alcohol PRESTONE iso propyl alcohol and glycerol. Magnesium chloride sodium chloride and calcium chloride brines can be utilized. Refrigerants which can be utilized as liquid include ammonia ethyl chloride and methyl chloride.

The wall is preferably although not necessarily fabricated from a pliable vinyl or other pliable material so that wall will conform to a part of an individual s body or will conform to some other object that is contacted by heat transfer device . Similarly the wall is preferably although not necessarily fabricated from a pliable vinyl or other pliable material so that wall will conform to a part of an individual s body or will conform to some other object. As would be appreciated by those of skill in the art device and walls and need not be spherical and can be made to have any desired shape contour and dimension. Walls and need not be pliable and can be substantially rigid.

In use of the heat transfer device device is placed in a freezer. Liquid being water freezes. Liquid being propylene glycol does not freeze. After liquid freezes device is removed from the freezer and placed against a portion of an individual s body or against some other object or substance so that device absorbs heat H. Heat is absorbed through wall and into liquid by the transfer of kinetic energy from particle to particle. When heat is absorbed by liquid liquid has a non uniform temperature i.e. liquid near wall is warmer and has a greater enthalpy than liquid farther away from wall . If liquid near wall has a different temperature the density of the liquid near wall is different than the density of cooler liquid farther away from wall . This density differential along with the force of gravity causes circulation and movement of liquid . When during this circulation and movement warmed liquid passes by and contacts an auxiliary spherical hollow container heat is absorbed through wall and into frozen liquid by the transfer of kinetic energy from particle to particle.

The heat transfer device of is identical to that of except that auxiliary containers are connected in a chain to each other and to the inner surface of wall by links and respectively. This chain can be slack so that containers can to a degree move about in liquid or the chain can be substantially rigid so it maintains its shape and dimension even if pliable wall is displaced.

The heat transfer device of is identical to that of except that auxiliary containers are removed and replaced by an elongate hollow auxiliary container having a cylindrical wall with a cylindrical outer surface and a cylindrical inner surface . Container is filled with a liquid which like liquid has a freezing point which is greater warmer than that of liquid . In another embodiment of the invention liquids and or have a freezing point which is less than that of liquid . This embodiment of the invention is particularly desirable if liquid when frozen is malleable or is readily broken into pieces which permit a pliable wall to be displaced and manipulated like the pliable rubber wall of a hot water bottle can be manipulated when the water bottle is filled with water

In a further embodiment of the invention liquids and or have a freezing point equivalent to that of liquid .

The use of the devices of is comparable to that of the heat transfer device of . In auxiliary containers absorb heat from liquid . In auxiliary container absorbs heat from liquid .

The ratio of the mass of liquid with respect to the mass of liquid or in a device can vary as desired but is presently preferably about 1 1. As the mass of liquid with respect to the mass of liquid increases the heat absorbing capacity of liquid increases but there is less of liquid to circulate to containers heat which is absorbed from wall . It is believed that if the mass of liquid greatly exceeds that of liquid e.g. the ratio of liquid to liquid is for example 8 1 then heat will tend to be absorbed directly by containers instead of first being absorbed by liquid and transferred to containers . This would defeat a primary feature of the invention. The use of liquid to circulate heat to containers is believed central to the invention and is believed at least in part responsible for why the heat transfer apparatus of the invention stays cold for unusually long periods of time. The ratio of liquid to liquid is preferably but not necessarily in the range of 3 1 to 1 3 most preferably in the range of 2 1 to 1 2.

The materials utilized to construct walls and and affect the rate of heat transfer. Thicker walls normally transfer heat at a slower rate thinner walls at a faster rate. While polymer material is desirable in walls because pliable polymer materials are readily available incorporating metal or other materials which facilitate the transfer of heat is also desirable.

When a device is placed in a freezer to solidify liquid liquid can have a composition which permits it to turn to a gel but preferably does not solidify. It is preferred that liquid remain a liquid or become a gel so that device remains pliable after being frozen. Similarly when liquid is frozen it may turn to a gel and may not completely solidify.

The following example is given by way of demonstration and not limitation of the scope of the invention.

Cold packs A B C were all placed at the same time in a freezer. After several hours cold packs A B C were removed at the same time from the freezer and placed on a flat table top in a room. The room temperature was eighty degrees and was maintained at eighty degrees while the following measurements were made. Measurements were made when the cold packs were removed from the freezer and at hourly intervals thereafter up to four hours. Each time measurements were taken a measurement was taken on the outer surface of each cold pack and on the interior of each cold pack. The results are summarized below in Tables I and II.

The above results demonstrate that the cold pack of the invention identified as C remained much colder for much longer than the conventional cold packs identified as A and B . These results were surprising and unexpected and are believed to demonstrate the utility and novelty of the heat transfer device of the invention.

Another heat transfer device of the invention is illustrated in and is generally indicated by reference character . Device includes outer wall . The material s used to fabricate wall can vary as desired. Wall presently preferably comprises a pliable water impermeable material like rubber or plastic. Wall circumscribes and encloses inner space . Cylindrical hollow fluid containers and are mounted in inner space . The shape and dimension of each container can vary as desired. Each container is fluid tight and completely encloses a space . Each container partially encloses a space and opens into the lower portion of inner space in . Each container can be mounted on floor in an inverted configuration in which space opens into the upper portion instead of the lower portion of space . Each container includes a top and side . The thickness of top and side can vary as desired to vary the ability of heat to traverse and pass through top and side .

Containers are mounted on a floor that extends across and bifurcates inner space into two separate chambers or spaces. The outer peripheral edge of floor is attached to wall . A first heat exchange composition is in the upper chamber created in space by floor . A second heat exchange composition is in the lower chamber created in space by floor . Floor and containers and prevent composition from intermixing with composition and vice versa. If desired floor can be perforated to allow the flow of fluid into fluid and vice versa.

The freezing point of composition can vary as desired and can be equal to that of composition greater than that of composition or less than that of composition . In one presently preferred embodiment the freezing point of composition is lower than that of composition . Composition can be the same as composition . It is presently preferred although not necessary that compositions and be in a liquid phase when heated to normal room temperature of 76 degrees F. that composition freeze at temperatures in the range of fifteen degrees Fahrenheit to thirty two degrees Fahrenheit and that composition freeze at temperatures less than fifteen degrees Fahrenheit. In this configuration composition normally freezes when placed in a conventional residential freezer while composition does not. Since composition then remains in a liquid state and since wall normally is pliable wall and composition can readily conform to a surface i.e. the body of a human being or other animal even if composition is when frozen rigid.

A third heat exchange chemical composition can be in space in each fluid tight container . The third composition can be a gas liquid or solid and can have any desired phase transformation temperatures. Practically speaking however the third composition is as are the first and second heat exchange compositions preferably a fluid at room temperature because the heat exchange compositions preferred in the practice of the invention either remain in a fluid form or transform between only two phases the liquid phase and the solid phase of the heat exchange composition. Gases have minimal thermal capacity and ordinarily are difficult to transform into liquids or solids at normal ambient freezing or heating temperatures.

When the upper portion of wall in is placed against a substance having a temperature cooler than that of an aqueous liquid composition heat from composition travels outwardly through wall causing the temperature of the portion of composition adjacent wall to cool. When the composition cools the density of the cooled liquid increases causing the liquid to move downwardly under gravity in a convection current in the direction of arrow A.

When the lower portion of wall in is placed against a substance having a temperature warmer than that of a liquid composition heat from the substance is absorbed by composition through the lower portion of wall . The warmed portion of composition typically carries the heat by convection upwardly in the direction indicated by arrow B. Fluid circulating in the manner indicated by arrows A and B travels adjacent the sides and tops of containers and permitting heat to travel through the containers between compositions and . The shape and configuration of containers and is important in this respect. A plurality of spaced apart containers and is preferred because the upstanding sides significantly increase the surface area available to compositions and . Further when sides and are substantially normal to floor and top or heat can be absorbed substantially vertically through a top or floor in the direction indicated by arrow C and can be absorbed substantially laterally through a side and . A side is substantially normal to floor or top if the side is at an angle in the range of sixty to one hundred and twenty degrees preferably in the range of seventy five to one hundred and five degrees to floor or top . In sides and are normal to tops and floor . Another reason containers and are preferred is that when fluid flows between containers and or into a container turbulent flow and eddy currents are believed more likely to occur particularly if the distance between adjacent containers is one inch or less. Turbulent flow and eddy currents facilitate the intermixing of warmed fluid or with cooler fluid or . This intermixing of fluid having different temperatures facilitates the efficient transfer of heat from a substance to fluid and from fluid either through containers to composition or to a third composition in spaces in containers . Heat can also if desired transfer from composition to fluid in the event that composition is used to absorb heat.

Another preferred feature of containers and is that each container have substantial dimensional parity. Dimension parity is important because it slows the absorption of heat by the container and . Slowing the absorption of heat tends to extend the useful life of device as a cooling device. If containers and do not have dimensional parity and instead take on the configuration of a sheet or panel the composition in each container tends to more rapidly absorb heat. A container has dimensional parity when the height and width of a cross section taken through the center or estimated center of the container and normal to the length i.e. normal to the greatest dimension of the container are substantially equal. The height and width of such a cross section of the container are substantially equal when the ratio of the height to the width is in the range of 5 1 to 1 5 preferably 3 1 to 1 3. A sphere has substantial dimensional parity because the height and width of a cross section through the center of the sphere are equal i.e. are each equal the diameter of the sphere. Therefore for a sphere the ratio of the height of the cross section to the width of the cross section is 1 1. A cube has substantial dimensional parity because the ratio of the height to the width of a cross section that passes through the center of the cube passes through four of the corners of the cube and is normal to a centerline passing through two corners of the cube is 1 1.

A parallelepiped that is 4 cm high 6 cm wide and 8 cm long has substantial dimensional parity because the ratio of height to the width of a cross section taken through the center and normal to the longitudinal centerline of the parallelepiped 1 1.5.

A parallelepiped which is in the shape of a panel and has a length of 8 cm height of 4 cm and a width of 0.5 cm does not have substantial dimensional parity because the ratio of the height to the width of a cross section taken through the center and normal to the longitudinal centerline of the parallelepiped is 8 1 i.e. is 4 to 0.5 . This parallelepiped would because of its narrow width more rapidly absorb heat and dissipate the thermal absorption capacity of the composition in or comprising the parallelepiped.

When the side and top of a container are thin walled i.e. are less than about two millimeters mm thick i.e. having a thickness of two mm plus or minus 10 and have a substantially uniform thickness i.e. the thickness of the side s top and if appropriate bottom walls at all points varies by no more than about two millimeters then the outer dimensions of the container provide a good indication of whether the container has substantial dimensional parity. If however the thickness of a wall s of the container is greater than about two mm and or the thickness of the walls is not substantially uniform then the outer dimensions of the container may not provide a good indication of whether the container has substantial dimensional parity and the configuration of the space A inside the container needs to be taken into account to determine if there is substantial dimensional parity. The same criteria used to evaluate the dimensional parity of the outside shape and dimension of a container can be utilized to evaluate the dimensional parity of the space A inside a container . If the space A is the shape of a cube then the space has dimensional parity. If the space A is the shape of a sphere then the space has dimensional parity. If the space A is the shape of a parallelepiped having a length of 8 cm a height of 4 cm and a width of 0.5 then the space does not have substantial dimensional parity. In containers and are not thin walled. Since however the cross sections of the spaces inside containers and have the shape of a cube containers and have substantial dimensional parity. The heat transfer container illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 2 595 328 to Bowen does not appear to have substantial dimensional parity.

Another heat transfer device is illustrated in and is similar to heat transfer device . A particular advantage of device is that it only requires outer liquid impermeable wall and does not require a floor because containers are connected to a portion of wall and extend into space. This makes device inexpensive to manufacture. Each container includes a fluid tight wall a top and a bottom that comprises a portion of wall . The inner space of each container includes a heat exchange composition . Inner space is circumscribed and enclosed by wall and includes heat exchange composition . The freezing point of composition can be greater than less than or equal to the freezing point of composition . In one presently preferred embodiment the freezing point of composition is a higher temperature than the freezing point of composition .

The distance indicated by arrows E between an adjacent pair of containers can vary as desired as can the height indicated by arrows F and the width indicated by arrows G of a container . To facilitate the transfer of heat between compositions and it is preferred that a plurality of containers be provided. As the number of containers increases the available surface area increases. By way of example and not limitation containers presently preferably have a width G in the range of one quarter to one inch and a height G in the range of one quarter to one inch. This distance E between adjacent containers is in the range of one quarter to three quarters of an inch. Arrows H to K in illustrate possible liquid flow paths. Liquid traveling along these flow paths transports heat by convection away from wall toward containers .

Heat transfer device in includes parallelepiped wall circumscribing and enclosing inner spaces and and hollow fluid tight containers mounted on wall . A heat exchange fluid or solid is in each container . Rectangular plate separates spaces and . Pump circulates a heat exchange liquid. The liquid flows out of space in the direction of arrows through pump and back into space in the direction of travel indicated by arrows . Liquid flowing into space flows through perforations back into space .

Heat transfer device in includes outer wall . Walls normally but not necessarily are liquid impermeable. Hollow fluid tight containers are housed within wall are mounted on wall and extend into the inner space circumscribed by wall in the same manner that containers are attached to wall and extend into space in . The inner space circumscribed by wall is filled with a first heat exchange composition. Each container to is filled with a second heat exchange composition. When the first heat exchange composition is in a fluid phase pump circulates the first heat exchange composition. The first heat exchange composition exits pump and travels through conduit in the manner indicated by arrows M N O. The upper arm of conduit is perforated such that fluid exits arm under pressure in the direction indicated by arrow P. The perforations are shaped and spaced to facilitate a uniform rate of dispersal of fluid out of arm along the length of arm or along a selected portion of the length of arm . The first heat exchange composition flows around and between containers in the manner indicated by arrows Q R S and re enters pump which again directs the composition into conduit under pressure.

Walls and and and floor and containers can be rigid or flexible or pliable elastic or non elastic porous or non porous fluid tight or not fluid tight have one or more layers and can be constructed from any desired material including without limitation resin metal glass concrete plaster porcelain and paper.

As earlier noted fluid can be circulated in the heat transfer device of the invention by convection and by the use of a pump. Fluid can also be circulated by shaking the heat transfer device and by when the outer wall is pliable manually kneading or displacing the wall to move the heat exchange composition in the device.

As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art in either the top or bottom of wall can be placed against a surface to be heated or cooled. In only containers or only containers can if desired be utilized and mounted on floor .

In one embodiment of the invention the containers in each are cylindrically shaped are of equivalent shape and dimension have a diameter and height of about one half inch are equidistant from other adjacent containers and are spaced apart about one half inch in a checker board array similar to that shown in .

In containers approximately double the surface area exposed to composition . If containers are not utilized and floor is a flat continuous member extending completely across device then the surface area exposed to composition is about equal to the sum of the area of the tops of the containers and the area of the portions of floor extending intermediate containers in the manner shown in . When containers are utilized the surface area exposed to composition equals the sum of the area of tops plus the area of the portions of floor extending intermediate containers plus the sum of the cylindrical surface areas of each side . 100 of the surface area of each container is in contact with composition . All of the surface area of each container is in contact with composition excepting the circular base which is in contact with composition . The proportion of the surface area of each container in contact with composition or is in the range of 20 to 100 preferably in the range of 55 to 100 most preferably in the range of 70 to 100 . In U.S. Pat. No. 2 595 328 to Bowen only 50 of each receptacle is in contact with material positioned above receptacle . The more desirable embodiments of the invention illustrated in herein utilize containers having well over 50 of the containers in contact with composition and or .

The use of containers etc. that remain in fixed position comprises one preferred embodiment of the invention because the containers are prevented from bunching together. This insures that the heat transfer characteristics of the heat transfer device remain fixed and more evenly distributed throughout the device.

Another important feature of the invention is the proportion of the surface area of floor or of the bottom area of a wall on which containers are mounted in intermediate containers with respect to the surface area of floor occupied by the base of each container . This is important because there must be sufficient space intermediate containers to permit fluid to circulate in the manner indicated by arrows A and B and arrows H to K in so heat can be transferred through floor to fluid and or through walls and to fluid or to fluid in spaces . U.S. Pat. No. 2 595 328 discloses a heat transfer device which has little floor space zones in Bowen and consequently which permits little lateral heat transfer and little heat transfer through zones . The ratio of the surface area of floor intermediate containers to the surface area of the bases of containers where in the surface area of each base of a cylindrical containers is equal to the surface area of the top of the container is in the range of 1 3.5 to 10 1 preferably 1 2 to 10 1.

Similarly the proportion of the surface area of containers that permits lateral heat transfer D is important in the practice of the invention. The proportion of the surface area of the side s of a container to the total surface area of the container is in the range of 1 4 to 10 1. The receptacles 8 in U.S. Pat. No. 2 595 328 to Bowen are not constructed to significantly utilize lateral heat transfer. The total surface area of container herein includes the area of top plus the area of side . The total surface area of container includes the surface area of circular top the surface area of cylindrical side and the area of the circular base of container . If the proportion of the surface area of the side s of a container with respect to the total surface area of the container is too great i.e. is for example 12 1 then it is likely the container is either losing dimensional parity or is so tall that it interferes with proper fluid circulation. Similarly if the proportion of the surface area of the side s of a container with respect to the total surface area of the container is too small i.e. is for example 1 6 then it is also likely the container is losing dimensional parity and or is so short that the lateral heat absorption D is adversely affected.

In one preferred embodiment of the invention fluid has a lower freezing point than the fluid in containers . For example fluid is glycol and the fluid in containers is water. Device is placed in a conventional residential freezer in a refrigerator. Fluid freezes. Fluid does not. The upper portion of wall in is placed against the back of the neck of an individual. Since fluid is in a liquid state fluid and the upper portion of pliable wall readily conform to the shape of individual s neck or shoulder or arm etc. . Fluid absorbs heat. Convection currents H to K carry heat toward containers . The shape and dimension and spacing of containers cause turbulent flow and eddy current when the convection currents flow into past and between containers . Frozen fluid absorbs heat. Eventually a large enough quantity of heat is absorbed to cause frozen fluid to undergo a phase transformation from a solid to a liquid.

Pan includes bottom and includes outer parallel elongate planar lips or edges and and includes inner parallel inset elongate planar lips or edges . The construction of lips or edges is similar to the construction of lips or edges A A A and B in pan A in . The construction of pan is similar to that of pan A.

Module matrix includes a plurality of modules . In there are sixteen equal sized modules in an upper left hand quadrant I sixteen equal sized modules in an upper right hand quadrant II sixteen modules in a lower left hand quadrant III and sixteen modules in a lower right hand quadrant IV. The shape and dimension of each module can if desired vary. However in each module has an equivalent shape and dimension. Adjacent modules in the upper left hand quadrant are spaced equal distances apart as are adjacent modules to in the remaining three quadrant illustrated in . If desired module matrix can and likely would include additional modules preferably but not necessarily in sub matrix groupings of four by four or sixteen total modules.

One particular advantage of module matrix is that each quadrant I II III IV of sixteen modules is spaced apart from any adjacent modules such that the distance indicated by arrows D and D is greater than the distance D between modules in a quadrant. This facilitates folding or cutting device along axis X and or Y.

Another advantage of module matrix is that each module to has a semi spherical cylindrical semi ellipsoidal semi spheroidal or other arcuate bottom like modules A in . Providing modules to with arcuate bottoms facilitates pliably bending or deforming device in the manner indicated by arrows and in for heat transfer device . The arcuate bottoms of each module to also facilitate the flow of fluid around the bottoms.

The peripheral edges of seal layer are fixedly sealingly connected to lips to seal liquid not visible in that fills pan and surrounds modules and that fills each module . Layer is sealingly affixed to edges and in the same manner that layer A is affixed to edges A and A in .

While distance D can vary as desired D is presently preferably in the range of 16 mm to 24 mm. The distance D D D between a pair of adjacent modules in a quadrant can vary but is presently preferably eight millimeters to twelve millimeters. The diameter or width W of a module can vary but is presently preferably in the range of 20 mm to 40 mm. The depth D of a module is preferably equal to or about equal to the width of the module. The bottom C of a module can contact or need not contact the bottom A of a pan A.

A procedure for fabricating a heat transfer device similar to that depicted in is illustrated and A to C.

In a deformable pliable sheet A of a polymer or some other material is provided along with a mold . Mold includes apertures . Apparatus not shown draws air out from the inside of mold through apertures in the direction indicated by arrow L to draw sheet A into the mold and to contour sheet A to the inner surface A of the mold. A follower is also provided to assist sheet A in contouring to surface A. After suction is applied to draw air in the direction of arrow L and follower is simultaneously moved downwardly in the direction of arrow T sheet A contours to inner surface A in the manner illustrated in B and a pan A is formed.

In pan A includes bottom A includes elongate parallel spaced apart inset edges A and B and includes elongate parallel spaced apart outer edges A and A.

In a deformable pliable sheet A of a polymer or some other material is provided along with a mold . Mold includes openings . Each opening includes an upright cylindrical wall and a semi spherical bottom. Apparatus not shown draws air out from the inside of mold through apertures in the direction indicated by arrow U to draw sheet A into the mold and to contour sheet A to the inner surfaces A of the mold. A follower is also provided to assist sheet A in contouring to cupped surfaces A. After suction is applied to draw air in the direction of arrow U and follower is simultaneously moved downwardly in the direction of arrow V sheet A is contoured to inner surfaces A in the manner illustrated in B and a module matrix A is formed.

In follower has been removed and nozzles are utilized to inject fluid into modules A to form a reservoir in each module A. The fluid charged module matrix A is inserted in the pan A of to produce the module matrix A pan A combination illustrated in . After the module matrix A is inserted in pan A in the manner illustrated in a layer A is applied to seal the fluid reservoirs to complete the production of a heat transfer device in accordance with the invention. Layer A is continuously sealed to outer edges A and A.

If desired module matrix A can be inserted in the pan A of before each module A is charged with fluid to form reservoirs . Or a auxiliary layer similar to layer A can be applied to module matrix A before matrix A is inserted in pan A. This auxiliary layer would seal fluid reservoirs in the matrix A. After this sealed matrix A is inserted in pan A then layer A is applied to seal matrix A and reservoir in pan A.

As earlier discussed the fluid in reservoirs normally preferably has a different freezing tempering than the fluid in reservoir .

In the fluid in pan and the fluid in each module to has been omitted for the sake of clarity. The structure of the heat transfer device of is generally equivalent to the structure of the heat transfer device illustrated in except of course that the heat transfer device in includes fewer modules than the heat transfer device .

One important feature of the heat transfer device of is that adjacent matrices are attached to matrix and to matrices and along at least two different and separate lines of weakening and extend outwardly from matrix in different directions. This facilitates wrapping the heat transfer device of around a portion of an individual s body.

Another important feature of the heat transfer device of is that matrices to form and partially circumscribe an opening shaped to receive the neck or another portion of an individual s body. This construction of the heat transfer device facilitates positioning device in the manner illustrated in over the shoulders and around the base or back of the neck of an individual .

Any desired configuration of matrices to can be employed. Each matrix to may if desired be round or triangular or some shape other than the square shape of each matrix to illustrated in . The number of matrices utilized in a heat transfer device can vary. For example a heat transfer device can be utilized in which matrices and are moved and only matrices to remain in the T shape illustrated in .

Any desired means can be provided to detachably secure matrices to to each other. In a matrix a hook VELCRO strip is fixedly attached to an edge of matrix . A loop VELCRO strip is fixedly attached to an edge of matrix . Strip is detachably secured to strip to secure matrix to and to form a line along which matrix can be folded or moved with respect to matrix . VELCRO strips can be fixedly attached at any desired location s on a matrix to facilitate the attachment of the matrix to one or more adjacent matrices. The matrices to in can for example be detachably secured to one another in the configuration shown by using VELCRO snaps or any other desired fastening system.

I have discovered that particular embodiments of the cooling pack of the invention have usefulness in healing and preventing bodily injuries. These embodiments can be constructed and used according to principles described earlier herein however some structural features described below are believed to facilitate use of the cooling pack in healing and preventing injury.

Cooling apparatus with a structure similar to that illustrated in was constructed in three different sizes 1 a Cryo Small unit consisting of a single quadrant of sixteen modules in a configuration corresponding to and to quadrant I or II or III or IV in 2 a Cryo Medium unit corresponding to a pair of quadrants I and II or III and IV in for a total of thirty two modules and 3 a Cryo Large unit having four quadrants corresponding to the four quadrant configuration I IV illustrated in for a total of sixty four modules . Each of the Cryo Small Cryo Medium and Cryo Large units included a pan A formed from a pliable deformable polymer sheet A and filled with a liquid consisting of a mixture of 22 in the preferred range of 15 to 25 by weight glycol by weight glycol and 78 in the preferred range of 75 to 85 by weight water by weight water included a plurality of modules A and C formed from pliable deformable polymer sheet A and included deformable pliable polymer sheet seal layer sealing a liquid consisting of water in modules A and C. The weight percent of glycol or other chemical s with a freezing temperature less than water or another selected liquid in the glycol water mixture can vary from 60 weight percent to 100 weight percent.

Each module to had a base with an outer base diameter W of one inch a height W of one inch and slightly tapered conical sides extending upwardly to a semi spherical tip having an outer diameter W of seven eighths of an inch. The space D D between the bases of each adjacent pair of modules was three eighths of an inch.

Polymer sheets A A A initially had before forming a thickness in the range of four to ten mils. After forming the thickness of sheet A was 2 mils in the preferred range of one to six mils polymer sheet A had a thickness of 2 mils in the preferred range of one to six mils and polymer seal layer A had a thickness of 2 mils in the preferred range of one to six mils .

The Cryo Small Cryo Medium and Cryo Large units were placed in a conventional residential freezer until the water in modules to partially froze and formed a partially frozen slush. The Cryo Small Medium and Large units were then removed from the freeze and placed on a table top in a room having an ambient temperature of sixty eight degrees F. The temperature of a module to in each unit was monitored. The data obtained is reflected in Table III on the following pages and in the graph illustrated in . The first column in Table III to the right of the time column the left most column in Table III is the temperature data in degrees F. for the Cryo Small. The second column to the right of the time column is the temperature data for the Cryo Medium. And the third column to the right of the time column is the temperature data for the Cryo Large. As is demonstrated by the data in Table III after about two and one half hours the temperature of each of the Cryo small medium and large units stabilized at about thirty four degrees and remained at about that temperature until nearly six hours after the Cryo units had been removed from the freezer. The foregoing procedure of monitoring the temperature of Cryo units after they are removed from a freezer was repeated except the room temperature was about sixty two to sixty eight degrees F. and each Cryo unit was placed in a bag comprised of thin soft poly fleece fabric. The data obtained is reflected in Table IV which follows Table III above. The first column in Table IV to the right of the time column the left most column in Table IV is the temperature data in degrees F. for the Cryo Small. The second column to the right of the time column is the temperature data for the Cryo Medium. And the third column to the right of the time column is the temperature data for the Cryo Large. The fourth column to the right of the time column is the ambient temperature.

When one of the Cryo units is after being removed from a conventional residential freezer placed against the epithelium of an individual at an ambient temperature of about 76 degrees F. the unit reaches a temperature of about thirty four degrees more quickly typically in about one hour.

The ability of the Cryo units of the invention to maintain a temperature in the range of thirty three to forty degrees F. for an extended period of time of two hours or more typically of three hours or more has been found useful in treating or preventing various injuries in part because maintaining the cooling temperature in a range greater than thirty two degrees F. avoids frostbite. The effectiveness of Cryo units in treating or preventing injuries is also believed to be due in part to the rounded semi spherical bottoms of modules B A C utilized in the Cryo units. As illustrated in the epidermis of a patient tends to conform to each bottom even though each bottom is covered by a portion of the pliable polymer pan A. When the epidermis contours to spherically shaped bottom the surface area of epidermis contacted by bottom is greater than would be the case if bottom were flat and circular. In addition spherically shaped bottom dispenses cold a greater distance or depth beneath the surface of tissue . Finally the effectiveness of Cryo units in treating or preventing injuries is also believed to be due in part to the point contact provided by the spaced apart modules B A C in the Cryo units which produces contraction of blood vessels at different points or area along a blood vessel. Portions of a blood vessel near a point contact are more likely to contract that portion of a blood vessel spaced away from a point contact . In dashed lines A and B illustrate shapes that the tip or bottom of a module can have instead of the semi spherical shape . Each of the shapes represented by dashed lines A and B dispenses in comparison to a flat circular bottom C cold a greater depth beneath the surface of tissue and also increases the surface area of epidermis contacted by bottom A and B. However even in the event that each module has a flat bottom C the spacing between modules facilitates penetration of epithelial tissue by the Cryo units of the invention because tissue tends to a certain extent to move intermediate the bottoms or tips of adjacent modules and toward the bases of the modules.

Each module B A C currently has an equivalent shape and dimension although that need not be the case. The base of each module the portion of each module adjacent sealing layer A in B etc. has a diameter or width and has a height in the range of eighteen to thirty two millimeters preferably in the range of twenty to thirty mm and most preferably in the range of twenty two to twenty eight mm. Dimensional parity is preferred for each module consequently it is also preferred that the diameter or width and height of each module be generally equivalent to within 40 preferably to within 30 and most preferably to within 20 of each other. The spacing between modules is in the range of six to fifteen mm preferably within eight to twelve mm.

As is illustrated in the flexor muscles of the forearm include the flexor digitorum superficialis the flexor carpis radialis the flexor carpi ulnaris and the pronator teres .

The medial collateral ligaments of the elbow are shown in and include the anterior bundle of the medial collateral ligament and the posterior bundle of the medial collateral ligament. The ligaments interconnect the humerus and the ulna . The medial epicondyle is an outgrowth of bone on the bottom and inside of the humerus . The tendons connected to the forearm flexors have a common insertion point on the medial epicondyle. When the forearm flexors are forcefully contracted tension is developed at the insertion point on the medial epicondyle on the tendons attached to these flexors. When the flexors are not properly warmed up when the arm is not used in a mechanically sound manner or when the flexors are overused microtears can be produced in the tendons and cause pain at the medial eipcondyle. Such pain is termed medial epicondylitis. Medial epicondylitis is frequent among athletes in sports that require overhead movement of the arm. These sports include baseball tennis badminton golf and javelin throwing. The frequency of medial epicondylitis in baseball and tennis has led to the common use of the terms pitcher s elbow and tennis elbow . Not only can microtears occur in the muscles ligaments and tendons supporting the inside of the elbow but more serious forms of medial epicondylitis can occur including repetitive strain injury an increase in the severity of the elbow pain and elbow swelling. A prolonged incidence of such serious medial epicondylitis can render the elbow useless for sports or other activities.

A standard ice therapy treatment for reducing inflammation in the elbow consists of applying ice for twenty minutes on and one hour off immediately after pitching or other athletic activities.

A 41 year old Caucasian male tennis player in good health had medial epicondylitis or tennis elbow . Any movement of his forearm to pivot his elbow joint produced pain. The condition had existed for eight weeks. Other treatments to remove the pain had not been successful. The Cryo Small unit was removed from the freezer and allowed to warm until the temperature of the unit was greater than thirty two degrees. The Cryo Small unit was applied to the inside of the patient s elbow continuously for three hours with the semi spherical module tips or bottoms adjacent the patient s skin. During the three hour period the temperature of the modules in the Cryo unit was in the range of 33 degrees F. to 40 degrees F. The procedure was repeated once a day for the next two days. On the fourth day after treating the elbow for the previous three days the patient did not experience pain when he pivoted his elbow joint. During the year following this treatment the elbow pain did not return.

Skin that has a second degree burn is blistered and extremely red. The loss of fluid may cause the skin to look wet. A second degree burn typically causes a person s pulse rate to rise due to the severe pain produced by the burn. A large second degree burn can cause a person to go into shock because the loss of bodily fluids produces a low blood pressure such that insufficient amounts of blood reach the major organs. Shock symptoms include a rapid pulse nausea vomiting rapid breathing a blue tinge to the lips and finger nails general weakness fainting and cold moist pale skin.

Skin that has a third degree burn may appear white or black and leathery. A third degree burn destroys nerve ending in the skin. Consequently the burned area may not be painful. The area around the burn may however experience severe pain. Some areas of the burn may be bright red or may blister. Muscle fat and bone can be damaged by a third degree burn. A second degree burn typically causes a person s pulse rate to rise due to the severe pain produced by the burn. A third degree burn can cause a person to go into shock because the loss of bodily fluids produce a low blood pressure such that insufficient amounts of blood reach the major organs. Shock symptoms include a rapid pulse nausea vomiting rapid breathing a blue tinge to the lips and finger nails general weakness fainting and cold moist pale skin. Emergency medical treatment is required for all third degree burns.

During initial treatment of second or third degree burns conventional wisdom sometimes recommends that ice or ice water not be utilized because they will further damage injured tissue.

During initial treatment of a second degree burn if the burn has blisters that are not open it is recommended that clothing be removed from the injured area and that cool running water be run over the injured area for around ten minutes to stop the burning process. A cloth moistened with cool water can also be utilized. Blister are not broken open. If the blisters are open clothing stuck to the burn is not removed and water is not run over the burn because such would increase the risk of shock.

During initial treatment of a third degree burn clothing stuck to the burn is not removed. The burned area is very briefly immersed in cold water or patted with a cloth moistened with cold water to halt the burning process. Blisters are not broken open. If the blisters are open clothing stuck to the burn is not removed and water is not run over the burn because such would increase the risk of shock.

A 40 year old Caucasian male in good health had a red hot coal from a camp fire burn through his clothing and contact the skin on his hip. An area about one and a half inches by one inch on his hip experienced 2and 3degree burns. There was some clothing remaining in the burn area. The Cryo Small unit was removed from a freezer and immediately applied to the burn area for thirty minutes with the semi spherical module tips adjacent the burn area. The temperature of the Cryo unit during the thirty minutes was in the range of 18 degrees F. to 22 degrees F. Then a Cryo Medium unit was applied to the burn area for two hours with the semi spherical module tips adjacent the burn area. When the Cryo Medium unit was applied the temperature of the Cryo Medium unit was in the range of 33 degrees F. to 40 degrees F. After the Cryo Medium unit was removed brown blotches subsequently formed in the skin at the areas corresponding to where the skin was immediately adjacent module tips in the Cryo Small unit. The blotches eventually peeled like skin peels after a sunburn likely because the modules produced mild frostbite to the upper layers of skin. The burned area turned yellow two to three days after the Cryo Medium unit was removed. On the first day following application of the Cryo units the burned area was raw did not bleed and was weeping. The burned area was covered with large gauze bandages to protect the area and allow air to access the area. Two to three days after the Cryo units were applied the burned area turned yellow. The area remained yellow for about a month. The burned area began healing from the outside in about a week following application of the Cryo units. The weeping area gradually became smaller healed over and a scar formed in about a month. During the next month following formation of the scar the scar became smaller and fainter until the scar was about one half the size of the original burn area.

A 36 year old Caucasian female in good health had a red very sore sunburn on the back of her neck. Blisters had not formed. A Cryo Small unit was removed from a freezer allowed to warm until the temperature of the unit was greater than thirty two degrees and was placed against the back of her neck for three hours with the semi spherical rounded module tips adjacent her skin. The polymer pan layer B or was intermediate tips and her skin. During the three hours that the Cryo unit was applied the temperature of the unit was initially in the range of twelve degrees F. to twenty two degrees F. The Cryo unit may also be effective in the temperature range of forty one degrees F. to fifty degrees F. but thirty three to forty degrees F. is preferred. The next day the sunburn was gone. Blistering and scarring did not result from the sunburn.

As illustrated in the spine includes spaced apart vertebrae . Intervertebral discs and are each located intermediate an adjacent pair of vertebrae. Principal nerves extend outwardly from the spine. illustrates the configuration of a portion of a normal healthy spine. Over time the spinal structure deteriorates due to age poor posture poor diet smoking drinking lack of exercise overuse exercising using the improper body mechanics exercising without a proper warm up exercising and not allowing microtears and other injuries to heal properly and other factors. When the spinal structure deteriorates discs and can compress and bulge and deform and rupture such that nuclear material oozes out through the disc annulus. In addition the alignment of the spine can be altered and the spin can bend excessively in one or more directions to crowd and interfere with proper functioning of internal organs. Such deterioration of the spine often generates pressure against nerves and produces excruciating pain and suffering for an individual. Such pain sometimes is cured only by inserting metal rods in an individual s back or by permanently fusing vertebrae together.

A 36 year old Black American male has a pair of compressed intervertebral discs in his lower back. The discs bulge and press against nerves in the spine intermittently producing pain. The individual has the back pain for over six months and takes anti inflammatory and pain relief drugs. The drugs provide temporary relief. Once the drugs are no longer taken the intermittent back pain returns in full force.

One option for eliminating the pain is to continue to take appropriate pain relieving and inflammation relieving drugs. A second option is to undergo surgery to fuse vertebrae together to prevent the continual compression release that is generated against the bulging discs by vertebrae as the spine moves in response to movement of the individual.

A Cryo medium unit is removed from the freezer and allowed to warm until the temperature of the unit is greater than thirty two degrees. The Cryo Small unit is applied to the patient s back adjacent the bulging discs continuously for four hours with the semi spherical module tips adjacent the patient s skin. During the four hours the temperature of the Cryo unit was in the range of thirty three degrees F. to forty degrees F. The procedure is repeated several times a day for the next four days. On the sixth day after treating the back and spine for the preceding five days the patient does not experience pain when walking and undertaking normal activities including sleeping eating and sitting at work.

Examples IV VI VII and IX are repeated except that each module in the Cryo unit has a diameter and a height of twenty mm instead of 25.4 mm one inch . Similar results are obtained.

Examples IV VI VII and IX are repeated except that each module has a diameter and a height of thirty mm instead of 25.4 mm one inch . Similar results are obtained.

Examples X and XI are repeated except that the spacing between the modules is six mm instead of about nine mm three eighths of an inch . Similar results are obtained.

Examples X and XI are repeated except that the spacing between the modules is twelve mm instead of about nine mm three eighths of an inch . Similar results are obtained.

Example IV is repeated except that after the treatment described in Example IV is completed the individual resumes playing tennis and each time he finishes playing tennis for sixty days applies a Cryo unit to the inside of his elbow for at least two hours when the temperature of the Cryo unit is in the range of thirty three degrees to forty degrees F. The individual does not experience a reoccurence of medial epicondylitis.

Example IX is repeated except that after the five day treatment is completed the individual for a period of thirty days applies a Cryo Medium unit to his back adjacent the bulging discs for at least two hours daily. The Cryo unit is applied when the temperature of the Cryo unit is in the range of thirty three degrees to forty degrees. The patient s back pain does not reoccur.

In the following EXAMPLES XVI to XXIX unless otherwise noted the Cryo therapy referred to comprises utilizing a Cryo Small unit once a day by applying it for four to five hours to the patient s skin in the specified injury area. The unit during that entire time period has a surface temperature in the range of thirty three to forty degrees at the points where the Cryo Small Unit contacts the patient s skin.

A forty eight year old woman had chronic tennis elbow. The right arm hand of the woman was immobilized. She could not even lift a half gallon of milk without extreme pain and her sleep was disturbed. Just prior to Cryo therapy she had on an air cast. Within twenty four hours of Cryo therapy her hand and elbow were completely functional. At times the pain began to come back to her elbow but repeating Cryo therapy alleviates the pain.

A forty five year old fisherman was out of work for a month because of chronic tennis elbow. He had no health insurance. Utilizing Cryo therapy returned him to work in five days. He is still working and utilizes Cryo therapy each day.

A forty one year old executive was incapable of picking up a gallon of milk with his left hand due to tennis elbow. He utilized Cryo therapy for three days to completely cure the condition. There was no relapse or reoccurrence of the injury for the following nine months.

A thirty eight year old salesman from New York had chronic tennis and or golfer s elbow in each elbow. He wore a Cryo medium unit on each elbow all day while driving his car. His report It s the best therapy I have ever used. 

A thirty two year old male with fair skin was working on his roof with a T shirt on. The back of his neck was severely burned. Cryo therapy to one portion of the burn resulted in that portion showing no signs of blistering. The Cryo therapy area was significantly less red that the areas not treated with Cryo therapy. The areas not treat with Cryo therapy blistered and peeled.

A forty one year old male was sunburned badly on the tops of his feet in between the straps on his sandals. Cryo therapy for five day s caused the burn to heal with no blistering or peeling.

A forty three year old man was working on his motorcycle during the summer in shorts. He suffered a second degree burn on his calf when he contacted the exhaust pipe. Cryo therapy was utilized immediately. The burn did not blister. When the area healed there was no apparent scar.

A forty seven year old man burned his forearm on a gas grill suffered a second degree burn. Treatment and results were generally the same as in Example XXII.

A forty eight year old man burned his arm on a stove and suffered a second degree burn. Treatment and results were generally the same as in Example XXII.

A Cryo medium was used as a wrist wrest for a forty one year old data entry individual who had chronic carpel tunnel syndrome. After using the wrist rest of the pain was significantly alleviated woman had chronic tennis elbow.

A fifty eight year old woman had chronic debilitating bone degeneration and extreme pain throughout most of her body. Cryo therapy gave her the most relief that she had experienced. Even the narcotic shots she was given once a month did not work. Only Cryo therapy provided pain relief. tennis elbow.

A seventy eight year old man suffered from a case of shingles. He developed a rash about twenty inches long and nine inches long in the area around his hip. He utilized Cryo therapy for long periods of time often all day and most of the night. He experiences a dramatic reduction in pain and itching associated with his disease. The relief provided by Cryo therapy was better than any narcotic pain reliever that had been prescribed.

A forty one male had chronic psoriasis over 20 of his body including sub dermal eczema. If the psoriasis is scratched it turns into large blisters that eventually break and produce large areas of exposed flesh. Cryo therapy was utilized each night for five days. The itching subsided without producing a numbing effect common to topical drug applications. He did not scratch himself in his sleep blistering did not occur and the eczema when into remission.

Cold pack includes elongate arcuate polymer cap or pan . Pan include circumferential edge that is sealingly glued welded or other wise attached to the peripheral edge of polymer sheet . Polymer sheet is formed in the manner illustrated in to produce modules . Modules are filled with fluid and are then sealed with polymer sheet . After modules to are sealed shut they are placed in fluid in pan in the manner illustrated in after which the peripheral edge of polymer sheet is sealed to peripheral edge of pan . The fluid in modules to is preferably water and has a freezing temperature lower than that of fluid . Fluid presently comprises an aqueous solution of antifreeze and has a freezing temperature that is less than that of fluid and that is preferably less the temperature in a convention house hold refrigerator. However as would be appreciated by those of skill in the art the freezing temperatures of fluids can be identical the freezing temperature of fluid can be higher than that of a fluid in a module etc. The higher freezing temperature of fluid . in modules to and the lower freezing temperature of fluid are deemed important in the presently preferred embodiment of the invention because while fluid completely hardens and freezes in a conventional household freezer fluid does not. This permits cold pack to be at least somewhat flexible when it is removed from a freezer because fluid is malleable or pliable and is not rigid and hard.

When cold pack is removed from a freezer with fluid frozen and hard and after the cold pack is then placed against the user s body the cold pack warms to a temperature in the range of thirty four degrees to forty degrees F. and retains this temperature for an extended period of time of at least one to thirty minutes. In one to one and a half hours the cold pack typically warms to a cool temperature of approximately fifty eights degrees F.

One or more modules to can be utilized in cold pack but it is presently preferred to utilize three modules to each having a diameter of about three fourths of an inch and having dimensional parity.

Unit is preferably but not necessarily covered by a layer of soft fabric that extends completely around unit or that at least covers the exterior arcuate surface of pan . It is surface or the fabric or other covering that extends over surface that contacts a patient s body at areas adjacent and around the anus or that possibly contacts a portion of the lower end of the anal canal.

A pad made of VELCRO fastening material or including adhesive can be attached to polymer layer or to fabric layer . The VELCRO or adhesive is utilized to secure cold pack to the inside of a user s underwear or other clothing to help maintain the cold pack in the desired position on the buttocks of the user.

In the following examples cold pack includes water as the fluid in each module to and includes an aqueous solution of antifreeze as fluid . When cold pack is removed from a conventional household freezer after the water has frozen fluid is substantially frozen but is not rigid such that cold pack is somewhat pliable. After cold pack has been removed from a conventional household freezer for five minutes fluid has significantly soften and is pliable.

A fifty nine year old female patient has internal hemorrhoids just inside the opening of the anus i.e. the veins around the anus are swollen and inflamed. In addition the male patient is experiencing itching at the lower end of the anal canal. The cold pack utilized by the patient includes an outer thin layer of soft fabric extending completely over and around pan and polymer sheet . The patient places cold pack in a freezer until fluid is frozen. After fluid is frozen the cold pack is removed from the freezer and the adhesive patch is utilized to secure cold pack on the patient s underwear such that cold pack is positioned so that at least a portion of the fabric extending over arcuate outer surface contacts the exterior of the patient s anus and tissue external and around the anus i.e. the arcuate outer surface of pan is adjacent the patient s anus and is adjacent tissue external and around the anus . After cold pack is maintained in position against the patient s anus and against tissue around the anus for one minute the patient experiences a reduction in itching the inflammation of the veins around the anus is reduced. After five minutes the swelling of tissue around the anus is reduced.

Example XXX is repeated except that cold pack does not include fabric layer . Similar results are obtained.

One typical treatment for hemorrhoids is the application of PREPARATION H or other compositions that reduce the swelling and inflammation of veins. The cold pack of the invention does not require the application of such medicants. Further the cold pack may if desired be refrozen and utilized yet again.

In another embodiment of the invention pan and fluid are not included in cold pack and the cold pack only includes one or more fluids housed in modules and only includes modules to and polymer sheets . As noted cold pack may be partially or completed covered by a fabric or any other desired material.

The shape and dimension of the modules can vary as desired. In one embodiment each module has a 26 mm diameter and a height of 26 mm. In another embodiment of the invention each module has a 26 mm height a length of 40 mm the distance from front to back i.e. the depth is about 24 mm.

After the frozen cold pack is removed from a freezer it is placed on a substantially rigid tray in the manner illustrated in and an orthogonal perforated foam piece with apertures and is placed on top of cold pack . This foam piece cold pack tray sandwich is slide into opening of soft pliable cloth sleeve and flap is used to close opening to secure the sandwich inside sleeve . Sleeve can include rubber bottom A. Sleeve is then as shown in positioned under and contacting the wrists of an individual utilizing a keyboard .

Another embodiment of the invention is illustrated in and includes a soft pliable cloth sleeve comparable to sleeve . A cold pack comparable to cold pack is slidably inserted in sleeve on a substantially rigid tray comparable to tray . A perforated foam piece not shown comparable to foam piece can also be slid into sleeve on top of cold pack . Pliable mouse pad is removably attached to sleeve . Soft foam arm rest is also removably attached to sleeve . Flap is after cold pack and tray are inserted through opening into sleeve utilized to close opening . The proximate end of each strap is attached to pad or to sleeve . VELCRO is attached to and extends along substantially the entire length of one side of each of straps respectively. A VELCO pad is also attached to the other side of each of straps respectively on the distal end of each of straps . Distal end includes leading edge A. Distal end includes leading edge A. As shown in sleeve with cold pack and tray therein can be positioned under the wrist of an individual using his hand to move a mouse on a mouse pad . In foam arm rest is detached from sleeve and used to support the forearm of the user. In the longitudinal axis L of sleeve is perpendicular to the forearm of the user. Alternatively in after foam arm rest is detached from sleeve sleeve with cold pack and tray therein is placed against the wrist and or forearm or leg of the user in a position with longitudinal axis L parallel to the forearm pliable mouse pad is wrapped around sleeve and straps and are wrapped around pad in the manner shown to secure pad and sleeve in position on the user s arm. In VELCRO pad of strap engages a portion of VELCRO and VELCRO pad of strap engage a portion of VELCRO . An alternate embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . Cold pack includes elongate arcuate polymer cap or pan . Pan includes circumferential edge A that is sealingly glued welded or otherwise attached to the peripheral edge A of polymer sheet . Sheet is like sheet substantially flat although sheet is also preferably pliable so that it will bend.

Module unit is positioned in the interior space circumscribed and sealingly enclosed by a pan unit comprising pan and sheet . Unit preferably but not necessarily is not attached to pan and sheet and is free to move about in fluid . Such detachment of module unit from the pan unit improves the flexibility of cold pack when frozen or at least when partially thawed.

In order to produce module unit a polymer sheet is formed to produce elongate hollow modules . Modules are filled with fluid and are then sealed with polymer sheet . After modules are sealed shut they are placed in fluid in pan after which the peripheral edge A of polymer pan is sealed to peripheral edge A of polymer sheet . Fluid can but preferably does not completely fill the excess volume in pan that is not occupied by modules . Some of the excess volume is instead occupied by air or another gas. Not completely filling the excess volume in pan with fluid gives module unit has more flexibility after it is frozen. Fluid and modules typically together occupy 50 to 95 preferably 70 to 90 of the volume within pan . The fluid in modules and is preferably water and has a freezing temperature lower than that of fluid . Fluid presently comprises an aqueous solution of antifreeze and has a freezing temperature that is less than that of fluid and that is preferably less the temperature in the freezer in a conventional household refrigerator. However as would be appreciated by those of skill in the art the freezing temperatures of fluids can be identical the freezing temperature of fluid can be higher than that of a fluid in a module etc. The higher freezing temperature of fluid . in modules and the lower freezing temperature of fluid are deemed important in the presently preferred embodiment of the invention because while fluid completely hardens and freezes in a conventional household freezer fluid does not. This permits cold pack to be at least somewhat flexible when it is removed from a freezer because fluid is malleable or pliable and is not rigid and hard.

The sheets utilized to form modules and sheet pan and sheet can comprise any desired material but presently preferably comprise pliable polymer sheets that can be heat welded to one another. This is important with respect to and facilitates manufacture of the invention.

In the alternate embodiment of the invention illustrated in only unit is utilized. Pan sheet and the fluid are not utilized.

If desired the circumferential edge formed by fastening together edges A and A can be folded upwardly and fastened to the outer surface of pan . Said circumferential edge preferably extends outwardly only a short distance preferably one to two mm from the pan wall that extends upwardly from said edge.

A cloth gauze or other soft fabric cover can be utilized around the embodiments of the invention illustrated in and can for example include a polymer thread fabric that enables edges A A to be heat sealed or welded together. During heat welding the polymer threads melt and bond. When the polymer threads of cover melt they also if the threads that melt are adjacent to edges A and A bond to edges A and A. The fabric can comprise fibers or threads of a natural and or synthetic material. The fabric is preferably soft and moisture absorbent.

As is indicated by to the shape and dimension of modules to can vary as desired. The spaced apart modules to are semispherical and have a circular cross sectional shape. The spaced apart elongate modules have an oval cross sectional area. Modules and are similar to modules to in that they have rounded distal tips. The upper portion of each module and has a shape similar to the upper half of a cylindrically shaped object or to the Goodyear Blimp i.e. of an elongate cylindrically shaped or egg shaped object. Accordingly when the rounded tip of the upper portion of a module is pressed against the portion of the pan that is contacting an individual s skin the distal tip of module tends to produce a line of cold that extends along the length of the rounded tip in a direction generally parallel to sheet parallel to the plane of the sheet of paper on which the drawing of is imprinted and parallel to the longitudinal axis X of a module unit or to the longitudinal axis X of a cold pack . When a flat plane or flat sheet of paper tangentially intersects a cylinder simultaneously along a series of points that are on the outer surface of the cylinder these points lie along a common line. In a similar fashion if a flat sheet of paper contacts a series of points simultaneously on the distal tip of a module such points generally lie along a common line which line is as noted generally parallel to flat sheet and longitudinal axis X. A module unit is in the same manner as cold pack preferably longer than it is wide.

In another embodiment of the invention a fluid containing module instead of having the shape of module or has a conical shape. The cross sectional area of module taken along section lines A A has a circular shape.

In a further embodiment of the invention a fluid containing module instead of having the shape of module or or or has a cylindrically shaped base and a semi spherically shaped tip the has a diameter less than that of the base. The cross sectional area of module taken along section lines B B has a circular shape.

In still another embodiment of the invention a fluid containing module instead of having the shape of module or or or has a tall cylindrically shaped configuration in which the height is greater than the diameter of the module . The cross sectional area of module taken along section lines C C has a circular shape.

Importantly each module preferably has a rounded distal tip. The base or proximate portion of each module is preferably flat. When a module is inserted in the buttocks such that the rounded distal tip is adjacent the rectal opening the flat base distributes to forces applied to the module when the individual is sitting and reduces the risk that a module unit or cold pack will be pressed into the rectal opening. One object of the invention is to position a cold pack or module unit immediately adjacent the rectal opening but to not press cold pack or module unit into the rectal opening.

Fabric covers and can be applied in any desired manner. For example a rectangular piece of fabric can be wrapped around a cold pack and sewn and glued to secure the fabric on the cold pack. The presently preferred manner however of applying a fabric cover comprises utilizing a flow wrap machine of the type commonly utilized to wrap candy bars. This wrapping procedure was discovered after the cold pack of the invention was developed and after other wrapping procedures had been investigated. A flow wrap machine has evidently never been utilized to wrap a medical device that is used to treat hemorrhoids. There appears to be at least one very good explanation for this namely food manufacturers and the manufacturers of flow wrap machines never contemplated the use of a flow wrap machine for medical purposes because it is undesirable for consumers to associate a machine used to wrap candy bars with diseases or medical ailments in particular with hemorrhoids or with unedible products such as Preparation H salve.

A flow wrap machine includes a dispensing roll of a strip of soft fabric. The fabric includes a polymer thread or other material that permits the fabric to be heat sealed. During operation of the machine the dispensing roll continuously turns about an axle and a strip of fabric is continuously fed from the dispensing roll. The fabric strip utilized is presently two to three inches wide although the width of the fabric strip can vary as desired. The machine feeds the end of the strip of fabric and a first assembled cold pack to a first processing station in the machine at which the last five to six inches of the strip of fabric is wrapped around the cold pack. The edges of the strip of fabric are sealed and folded to form an elongate seam extending longitudinally along the exterior of the flat bottom of the cold pack and parallel to the longitudinal axis of cold pack .

The machine then continues to feed or index the partially wrapped cold pack with the last five to six inches of the strip of fabric still attached to fabric being fed from the dispensing roll to a second processing station at which the leading folded end of the fabric is heat sealed along spaced apart first and second heat seal lines for example lines A and B in that are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of cold pack and that are spaced apart from the cold pack . Simultaneously with the heat sealing the leading end of the fabric strip is cut along a first cut line for example the line indicated by dashed line in intermediate the spaced apart heat seal lines. The first cut line also is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cold pack . In addition the first cut line is spaced apart from the cold pack i.e. the flow wrap machine does not cut through cold pack .

The machine then continues to feed or index the partially wrapped cold pack with the leading end heat sealed and cut until the trailing edge of the cold pack reach the second processing station. At the second processing station the trailing folded end of the fabric is heat sealed along spaced apart third and fourth head seal line that are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of cold pack . Simultaneously with the heat sealing the trailing end of the fabric strip is cut along a second cut line intermediate the spaced apart third and fourth heat seal lines. The second cut line also is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cold pack and is spaced apart from the cold pack . As soon as the trailing end of the fabric strip is cut along the second cut line the cold pack has been completely wrapped in the same fashion as a Baby Ruth Three Musketeers or other conventional candy bar. And concurrently with the first cold pack being moved from the first toward the second processing station a second cold pack is being partially wrapped at the first processing station in the same manner that to first cold pack was wrapped. When the trailing end of the folded strip around the first cold pack is indexed to the second processing station the leading end of the folded strip around the second cold pack is also indexed to the second processing station. When the machine make a cut along the second cut line between the third and fourth heat seal lines one of said third and fourth heat seal lines seals the trailing end of the folded fabric strip around the first cold pack while the other of said third and fourth heat seal lines seals the leading end of the folded fabric strip that extends around the second cold pack and so on. The foregoing operation of a flow wrap machine in accordance with the invention is appreciated by those of skill in the art although prior to the invention there appeared to be no problem or motivation in the art that would remotely suggest or accept the idea of using a food wrapping machine in connection with the treatment of hemorrhoids.

Strip is placed in a freezer to freeze cold packs that are in wrapper . Strip is then removed from the freezer and placed around a user s forehead or around the neck or another desired portion of the user s body. The wrappers to at one end of strip and the wrappers to at the other end of strip function as ties and are used to the strip in position around the user s head. The fabric utilized to form strip preferably is soft moisture absorbent and is in order to be utilized in the flow wrap machine susceptible to being heat sealed. As used herein fabric is cloth. Cloth is something made by weaving felting knitting knotting bonding or crocheting natural or synthetic fibers and filaments and used in variations of texture finish weight width for clothing upholstery rugs and industrial purposes or treated so that it will serve a special purpose as made semirigid for bookbinding . Cloth is in many cases pliable.

In use of member member is placed on a table or other flat surface with a mouse positioned on the table forwardly of the front of member . Alternately a keyboard can be positioned forwardly of the front of member in the manner illustrated in . In the front of member comprises the elongate leading edge of member that is nearest the alphanumeric characters FIG. that are imprinted on the drawing sheet. Additionally arrow A extends along and is parallel to the front of member . A computer operator places his wrist or wrists when the user is operating a keyboard on upper surface and grasps and operates with the palm of his hand facing down in the manner illustrated in the keyboard or mouse. Surface draws heat away from and cools the wrist. The use of member reduces the risk that a user will develop carpal tunnel syndrome or if a user has carpal tunnel syndrome mitigates discomfort associated with the syndrome.

Spaced apart rib panels A can be inserted in space to provide structural support. The lower edge C of a rib panel A preferably rests on or is attached to base A while the upper edge B of a rib panel A is preferably spaced apart from arm B such that arm B can downwardly flex at least a short distance when a user places his wrist on surface in the manner described above. Arm B will after it downwardly flexes preferably but not necessarily contact upper edge B.

A cold pack s inserted in interior space of member can extend the entire length of member . Alternately the cold pack need not extend the entire length of member .

The cold pack inserted in interior space of member in does not extend along and contact the entire length of arm B and or base A of member . The aluminum or other heat conductive material used to fabricate member effectively absorbs heat along the entire length of member and makes the entire length of arm B cool to the touch even though cold pack does not extend along the entire length of member . Further the cold pack need only contact one of base A and arm B.

A pair of spaced apart rib panels not shown can if desired be placed intermediate the ends of member to form along with opposing portions of arm B and of base A a compartment in which cold pack when inserted in member in the manner illustrated in fits. When the cold pack is inserted in this compartment said pair of spaced apart rib panels comprise the ends of the compartment and prevent cold pack from sliding along interior space in the directions of arrow A and A toward either end of member .

Member can be covered with a removable sleeve D or other cover manufactured from paper fabric or another desired material. The sleeve D presently preferably comprises a fabric slides onto member and includes an opening that is after member is inserted in the opening closed by moving a fabric flap over the opening and securing the flap to a VELCRO fastening strip that is attached to the exterior of sleeve D. The sleeve D preferably insulates arm B to an extent by preventing a user s wrist from directly contacting surface .

In use member is placed on horizontally oriented support surface of stand such that the front of member is in the manner illustrated in adjacent vertically oriented surface A of stand . A computer operator places his wrist on upper surface while operating in a manner similar to that illustrated in a mouse indicated in ghost outline on mouse pad surface of stand . VELCRO fastening material or other fasteners can be utilized to secure member in place on step .

Member can be covered with a removable sleeve or other cover manufactured from paper fabric or another desired material. The sleeve presently preferably comprises a fabric slides onto member and includes an opening that is after member is inserted in the opening closed by moving a fabric flap over the opening and securing the flap to a VELCRO fastening strip that is attached to the exterior of sleeve . The sleeve preferably insulates arm to an extent by preventing a user s wrist from directly contacting surface . The sleeve also functions to maintain in interior space a cold pack that has been inserted therein.

The wrist splint apparatus illustrated in includes an opposing pair of substantially rigid splints fabricated from a polymer a metal or other desired material. Splint has aperture formed therethrough. Aperture can be formed through any desired portion of the wrist splint apparatus.

Splints and are interconnected by a pair of equal sized pieces of elastic fabric indicated in ghost outline by dashed lines in . Fabric piece extends between and interconnects one side of splints and . Fabric piece which can if desired differ in shape and dimension from piece is spaced apart from piece and interconnects the other side of splints and . Orthogonal hollow fabric sleeve is permanently or detachably secured to the outside of splint and covers opening . Sleeve includes mouth or opening . Sleeve can if desired be provided with a flap not shown that can be used to open and close mouth . A cold pack slides into sleeve and functions to cool a user s wrist.

In the splint apparatus is inverted. In use prior to sliding the apparatus onto a user s hand the apparatus is rotated one hundred and eighty degrees from the orientation in . After the apparatus is slid onto a user s hand opening is adjacent the bottom of the user s wrist and tongue A extends from the bottom of the user s wrist onto the central area of the user s palm. Accordingly opening enables the bottom of the user s wrist to contact or be positioned adjacent the bottom of sleeve . The bottom of sleeve preferably has an opening or is fabricated from a mesh material or other material that facilitates the passage of heat from a user s wrist to a cold pack positioned inside sleeve . In tongue A is angled downwardly with respect to the remainder of splint . Tongue A can also as indicated by dashed lines be angled downwardly with respect to the remainder of splint . Consequently when the apparatus of is worn on a user s hand and associated wrist tongue A angles upwardly into the palm of the hand and tongue A angles upwardly away from the back of the user s hand.

Fabric wrap is wrapped in the direction of arrow A around splints and to secure the splints and sleeve on a user s wrist. Cold pack is inserted in sleeve . VELCRO fastening material is utilized to secure wrap in place after it has been wrapped around splints .

In use cold pack is placed in sleeve and an individual moves his hand in the direction of arrow A to slide his hand intermediate splints and elastic fabric pieces until opening is positioned over the bottom i.e. the palm side of the user s wrist and tongue extends into the central area of the user s palm. Tongue extends into the central area of the top or back of the user s hand. Fabric wrap is wrapped about splints and sleeve to secure the splints on the user s wrist. If desired a strip of material indicated in in ghost outline by dashed lines can be wrapped and detachably fixed about tongues to secure more rigidly the splint apparatus in position on the wrist and hand of a user.

While any cold pack can be utilized in the various embodiments of the invention described herein a cold pack of the general type described herein with reference to and other related Figs. is preferred because such a cold pack often maintains a temperature in the range of thirty four to forty degrees for an unusually long period of time typically in the range of one to four hours. It is of course understood that a cold pack of the type illustrated in and which comprises only a few modules likely will maintain a temperature in the range of thirty four to forty degrees for a shorter period of time typically at least thirty minutes and usually about one hour.

Opening can if desired be formed in splint in fabric piece and or in fabric piece to permit a cold pack s to apply cold to the top and or sides of a user s wrist.

In an alternate embodiment of the invention the modular cold pack structure of or of is utilized as is without utilizing a pan A B or a second liquid that is normally retained in the space intermediate the pan and modules or and in . In this alternate embodiment of the invention the fluid instead of comprising a liquid or comprises the ambient air. When the cold pack structure of is applied to a location on an individual s skin with the rounded ends of the modules contacting the skin or contacting a layer of fabric interposed between the rounded ends and the skin the frozen or cooled liquid contained in the modules cools the air that is between the modules typically to a temperature that is eight to ten degrees warmer than the temperature of the liquid in the modules. When the air is cooled its density increases and slows movement of the air intermediate the modules. As a result this alternate embodiment is useful in treating tennis elbow and other ailments earlier referred to herein.

In still another alternate embodiment of the invention the modular cold pack structure of or of is utilized with a pan A B but with air or a gas instead of the second liquid that is normally retained in the space intermediate the pan and modules or and in . In this alternate embodiment of the invention instead of a liquid or the fluid utilized comprises air or another gas. When this cold pack structure is applied to a location on an individual s skin with the rounded ends of the modules contacting the portion of the pan that either contacts the skin or contacts a layer of fabric interposed between the pan and the skin the frozen or cooled liquid contained in the modules cools the air that is between the modules and the pan typically to a temperature that is at least eight to ten degrees warmer than the temperature of the liquid in the modules. As a result this alternate embodiment is also useful in treating tennis elbow and other ailments earlier referred to herein.

