---

title: Image forming apparatus and image forming method capable of generating stable transfer electric field
abstract: An image forming apparatus includes an image carrier for carrying a toner image and a transfer device. In the transfer device, a voltage applier applies a predetermined voltage to a transfer electric field generator. A potential measurement device measures a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator when a predetermined time period elapses after the voltage applier applies the predetermined voltage to the transfer electric field generator. A controller determines a transfer bias to be applied by at least one transfer member to the transfer electric field generator based on the measured surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. The at least one transfer member applies the transfer bias to the transfer electric field generator to generate a transfer electric field. The toner image is transferred from the image carrier onto a toner image receiver by the transfer electric field generated by the transfer electric field generator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08045875&OS=08045875&RS=08045875
owner: Ricoh Company, Limited
number: 08045875
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20081110
---
The present application is based on and claims priority to Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2007 295110 filed on Nov. 14 2007 and 2008 125090 filed on May 12 2008 in the Japan Patent Office the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Exemplary aspects of the present invention relate to an image forming apparatus and an image forming method and more particularly to an image forming apparatus and an image forming method using the image forming apparatus for controlling a voltage of an electric field to transfer a toner image.

Related art image forming apparatuses such as copiers facsimile machines printers or multifunction printers having at least one of copying printing scanning and facsimile functions typically form a color image on a recording medium e.g. a transfer sheet based on image data using electrophotography. Thus for example chargers uniformly charge surfaces of image carriers. An optical writer emits light beams onto the charged surfaces of the image carriers to form electrostatic latent images on the image carriers according to the image data respectively. Development devices supply yellow cyan magenta and black toner particles to the electrostatic latent images formed on the image carriers to make the electrostatic latent images visible as yellow cyan magenta and black toner images respectively. A transfer member transfers the toner images directly from the image carriers and superimposes the toner images onto a transfer sheet conveyed on a conveyance belt in a direct transfer method to form a color toner image on the transfer sheet. Alternatively a first transfer member transfers the toner images from the image carriers and superimposes the toner images onto an intermediate transfer member in an indirect transfer method to form a color toner image on the intermediate transfer member and a second transfer member transfers the color toner image from the intermediate transfer member onto a transfer sheet. Cleaners clean the surfaces of the image carriers after the toner images are transferred from the image carriers. Finally a fixing device applies heat and pressure to the transfer sheet bearing the color toner image to fix the color toner image on the transfer sheet thus forming the color image on the transfer sheet.

In each of the direct transfer method and the indirect transfer method the transfer member including the first transfer member and the second transfer member applies a transfer bias having a polarity either identical to or opposite to a polarity of the toner image to a transfer electric field generator that is the conveyance belt in the direct transfer method and the intermediate transfer member and the transfer sheet in the indirect transfer method so as to generate a transfer electric field. An electrostatic attractive force or an electrostatic repulsive force generated by the transfer electric field transfers the toner image onto the intermediate transfer member or the transfer sheet.

The transfer member and the transfer electric field generator generally include a semi conductive material whose resistance fluctuates with environmental conditions such as temperature and humidity. The resistance also changes gradually over time due to deterioration of the semi conductive material. Accordingly the transfer bias applied by the transfer member to the transfer electric field generator changes resulting in decreased transfer efficiency and formation of a faulty toner image.

To address these problems the transfer bias is adjusted to a predetermined constant voltage or a predetermined constant current by measuring a voltage or a current flowing in the transfer member contacting the transfer electric field generator or a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator for example. However such measurements may not be precise due to changes in speed of an image forming operation and measurement error caused by movement of the transfer electric field generator.

Obviously such decreased transfer efficiency and its resulting formation of a faulty toner image are undesirable and accordingly there is a need for a technology to generate a stable transfer electric field regardless of change in resistance of the transfer electric field generator and the transfer member.

This specification describes below an image forming apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming apparatus includes an image carrier configured to carry a toner image and a transfer device including at least one transfer member a transfer electric field generator a toner image receiver a voltage applier a potential measurement device and a controller. The at least one transfer member is configured to apply a transfer bias. The transfer electric field generator is configured to receive the transfer bias applied by the at least one transfer member to generate a transfer electric field. The toner image receiver is configured to receive the toner image transferred from the image carrier by the transfer electric field generated by the transfer electric field generator. The voltage applier is configured to apply a predetermined voltage to the transfer electric field generator. The potential measurement device is configured to measure a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator when a predetermined time period elapses after the voltage applier applies the predetermined voltage to the transfer electric field generator. The controller is configured to determine the transfer bias to be applied by the at least one transfer member to the transfer electric field generator based on the measured surface potential of the transfer electric field generator.

This specification further describes below an image forming method according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming method includes carrying a toner image with an image carrier applying a voltage to a transfer electric field generator with a voltage applier and measuring a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator with a potential measurement device when a predetermined first time period elapses after the voltage applier applies the voltage to the transfer electric field generator. The image forming method further includes determining a transfer bias to be applied by at least one transfer member to the transfer electric field generator based on the measured surface potential of the transfer electric field generator and applying the transfer bias to the transfer electric field generator with the at least one transfer member. The image forming method further includes generating a transfer electric field by the transfer bias applied by the at least one transfer member with the transfer electric field generator and transferring the toner image from the image carrier onto a toner image receiver with the transfer electric field.

This specification further describes below an image forming method according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming method includes carrying a toner image with an image carrier applying a voltage to a transfer electric field generator with a voltage application member serving as a voltage applier and contacting the transfer electric field generator and measuring a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator with a potential measurement device when a predetermined first time period elapses after the voltage application member applies the voltage to the transfer electric field generator. The image forming method further includes connecting a constant voltage power source to at least one transfer member using a switch to change the voltage applier from the voltage application member to the at least one transfer member applying a voltage to the transfer electric field generator with the at least one transfer member and measuring the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator again with the potential measurement device when a predetermined second time period elapses after the at least one transfer member applies the voltage to the transfer electric field generator. The image forming method further includes determining a transfer bias to be applied by the at least one transfer member to the transfer electric field generator based on the measured surface potentials of the transfer electric field generator that compensates for change in resistance of the at least one transfer member and applying the transfer bias to the transfer electric field generator with the at least one transfer member. The image forming method further includes generating a transfer electric field by the transfer bias applied by the at least one transfer member with the transfer electric field generator and transferring the toner image from the image carrier onto a toner image receiver with the transfer electric field.

In describing exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views in particular to an image forming apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is explained.

As illustrated in the image forming apparatus includes an image forming device a timer a recording member and a controller . The image forming device includes image forming units A A A and A and a transfer device B. The image forming units A A A and A include photoconductive drums A B C and D charging rollers A B C and D and development devices A B C and D respectively. The transfer device B includes a first transfer device B a second transfer device B a conductive brush a metal plate and a surface potential sensor . The first transfer device B includes an intermediate transfer belt a driving roller a driven roller first transfer rollers A B C and D and power sources A B C and D. The second transfer device B includes a second transfer belt a second transfer roller a driven roller a counter roller and a power source .

The image forming apparatus can be a copier a facsimile machine a printer a plotter a multifunction printer having at least one of copying printing scanning plotter and facsimile functions or the like. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming apparatus functions as a tandem type printer for forming a color image on a transfer material by electrophotography using an indirect transfer method.

In the image forming device the four image forming units A A A and A form yellow cyan magenta and black toner images respectively. Specifically the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images are formed on outer circumferential surfaces of the photoconductive drums A B C and D respectively. The transfer device B transfers the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images formed on the photoconductive drums A B C and D onto a transfer sheet serving as a transfer material using the indirect transfer method.

The image forming apparatus further includes an exposure device a sheet supplier and a fixing device. The sheet supplier includes a paper tray a feeding roller a friction pad and a registration roller pair. Specifically the exposure device such as an LSU laser scanning unit emits laser beams onto the photoconductive drums A B C and D based on image data sent from a personal computer for example to selectively expose the outer circumferential surfaces of the photoconductive drums A B C and D so as to form electrostatic latent images on the photoconductive drums A B C and D respectively. The sheet supplier supplies a transfer sheet to the transfer device B. Specifically the paper tray loads and stores transfer sheets having a predetermined size including paper and a resin sheet such as an OHP overhead projector transparency. The feeding roller feeds the transfer sheets loaded on the paper tray one by one toward a conveyance path. The friction pad includes an elastomer and separates each transfer sheet from other transfer sheets. The registration roller pair feeds the transfer sheet to a second transfer nip formed between the intermediate transfer belt and the second transfer belt at a proper time. The fixing device includes a fixing roller and a pressing roller. The fixing roller and the pressing roller apply heat and pressure to the transfer sheet bearing a toner image to fix the toner image on the transfer sheet.

The image forming units A A A and A form a tandem structure in which the image forming units A A A and A are arranged in this order from an upstream toward a downstream in a rotating direction A of the intermediate transfer belt . The image forming units A A A and A form yellow cyan magenta and black toner images respectively and have a common structure. For example in the image forming unit A the charging roller A and the development device A surround the photoconductive drum A. The photoconductive drum A serving as a latent image carrier and an image carrier has a roller shape and rotates in a rotating direction D. The charging roller A opposes the photoconductive drum A without contacting the photoconductive drum A. The charging roller A applies a charging bias onto the outer circumferential surface of the photoconductive drum A to uniformly charge the outer circumferential surface of the photoconductive drum A. The charging roller A also cancels an electrostatic latent image formed on the photoconductive drum A after a toner image formed in correspondence to the electrostatic latent image is transferred from the photoconductive drum A to the intermediate transfer belt to initialize the photoconductive drum A. The development device A applies a development bias to an electrostatic latent image formed on the photoconductive drum A by the exposure device to adhere yellow toner to the electrostatic latent image so as to make the electrostatic latent image visible as a yellow toner image.

In the transfer device B the first transfer device B applies a first transfer bias to the yellow toner image formed on the photoconductive drum A to transfer the yellow toner image onto the intermediate transfer belt having an endless belt shape. Similarly cyan magenta and black toner images are formed on the photoconductive drums B C and D respectively transferred from the photoconductive drums B C and D and superimposed onto the yellow toner image on the intermediate transfer belt to form a color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt . The second transfer device B applies a second transfer bias to the color toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt to transfer the color toner image onto the transfer sheet fed by the registration roller pair. The intermediate transfer belt is looped over the driving roller connected to and driven by a driver the driven roller and the counter roller . The driving roller rotates the intermediate transfer belt in the rotating direction A.

The first transfer rollers A B C and D serving as transfer members contact an inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt to apply first transfer biases to the intermediate transfer belt . The first transfer rollers A B C and D oppose the photoconductive drums A B C and D via the intermediate transfer belt respectively. A contact separate mechanism applies pressure to the inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt to press the intermediate transfer belt toward the photoconductive drums A B C and D so as to form first transfer nips between the intermediate transfer belt and the photoconductive drums A B C and D respectively. The first transfer rollers A B C and D are electrically connected to the power sources A B C and D serving as constant voltage power sources respectively via a conductive material and grounded. The first transfer rollers A B C and D apply first transfer biases onto the inner circumferential surface e.g. a back surface of the intermediate transfer belt serving as a transfer electric field generator to generate a transfer electric field having a polarity opposite to a polarity of the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images formed on the photoconductive drums A B C and D at the first transfer nips respectively. Accordingly an electrostatic attractive force transfers the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images from the photoconductive drums A B C and D onto an outer circumferential surface e.g. a front surface of the intermediate transfer belt .

In the second transfer device B the second transfer roller serving as a driving roller is connected to a driver. The second transfer belt having an endless belt shape and serving as a conveyance belt is looped over the second transfer roller and the driven roller . The second transfer belt contacts the intermediate transfer belt at a position between the second transfer roller and the counter roller to form a second transfer nip. The power source serving as a constant voltage power source is electrically connected to the counter roller via a conductive material and grounded. The counter roller serving as a transfer member applies a second transfer bias onto the inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt serving as a transfer electric field generator to generate a transfer electric field having a polarity identical to a polarity of the color toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt at the second transfer nip. Accordingly an electrostatic repulsive force transfers the color toner image from the intermediate transfer belt onto the transfer sheet conveyed to the second transfer nip. Alternatively the second transfer roller instead of the counter roller may apply a second transfer bias to generate a transfer electric field having a polarity opposite to the polarity of the color toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt .

In the transfer device B the conductive brush the metal plate and the surface potential sensor which serve as a potential measurement device are provided between the first transfer rollers C and D. The metal plate has a rectangular plate shape and is connected to the conductive brush serving as a conductor via a conductive material. The surface potential sensor is provided with respect to the metal plate in such a manner that a predetermined gap is provided between the surface potential sensor and the metal plate and measures a surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt without contacting the intermediate transfer belt .

The timer counts a time period elapsed after the power source C serving as a voltage applier starts applying a voltage. The recording member includes a memory and an AD board for example and records the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt measured by the surface potential sensor together with the time period counted by the timer . The controller includes a CPU central processing unit and controls the timer and the recording member . The power sources A B C and D are connected to the controller . The surface potential sensor is connected to the controller via the recording member . The controller recognizes the measured surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt recorded by the recording member together with the time period counted by the timer as a function of time. Alternatively the controller recognizes the measured surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt as an increasing speed of the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt .

Alternatively the conductive fiber B may include a resin other than the nylon resin or a metal. A conductive sponge material such as urethane in which carbon black is dispersed may replace the conductive brush . In order to prevent the intermediate transfer belt from being worn by the conductive brush or the conductive sponge the conductive brush or the conductive sponge may separate from the intermediate transfer belt during an image forming operation.

Referring to the following describes an image forming operation for forming a color image on a transfer sheet which is performed by the image forming device of the image forming apparatus .

When the image forming device starts an image forming operation the photoconductive drums A B C and D rotate in the rotating direction D. The charging rollers A B C and D uniformly charge the outer circumferential surfaces of the photoconductive drums A B C and D respectively to have a predetermined polarity. The exposure device emits laser beams onto the charged surfaces of the photoconductive drums A B C and D according to yellow cyan magenta and black image data to form electrostatic latent images on the outer circumferential surfaces of the photoconductive drums A B C and D serving as latent image carriers and image carriers respectively. The development devices A B C and D make the electrostatic latent images formed on the photoconductive drums A B C and D visible as yellow cyan magenta and black toner images respectively. The first transfer rollers A B C and D serving as transfer members apply first transfer biases to the intermediate transfer belt serving as a transfer electric field generator to generate a transfer electric field having a polarity opposite to a polarity of the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images formed on the photoconductive drums A B C and D at the first transfer nips respectively. Accordingly an electrostatic attractive force transfers the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images formed on the photoconductive drums A B C and D onto the intermediate transfer belt serving as a toner image receiver in such a manner that the yellow cyan magenta and black toner images are superimposed on the intermediate transfer belt respectively to form a color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt serving as an image carrier. At the second transfer nip formed between the intermediate transfer belt and the second transfer belt the counter roller serving as a transfer member applies a second transfer bias to the intermediate transfer belt serving as a transfer electric field generator to generate a transfer electric field having a polarity identical to a polarity of the color toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt . An electrostatic repulsive force generated by the transfer electric field transfers the color toner image from the intermediate transfer belt onto a transfer sheet supplied by the sheet supplier and serving as a toner image receiver. Alternatively when the image forming device forms a monochrome image the image forming device performs an image forming operation by using only a predetermined photoconductive drum e.g. the photoconductive drum D for forming a black toner image .

Referring to the following describes a process for determining a proper transfer bias voltage hereinafter referred to as a proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus depicted in . is a flowchart illustrating the process for determining the proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus .

In step S the image forming apparatus is powered on. In step S the timer is turned on to start counting a time period. In step S before the image forming apparatus starts an image forming operation that is when the photoconductive drums A B C and D the first transfer rollers A B C and D and the intermediate transfer belt stop rotating the power sources C and D serving as constant voltage power sources apply predetermined voltages for example 1 000 V and 0 V to the first transfer rollers C and D respectively. Simultaneously the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. In step S the controller determines whether or not the time period counted by the timer reaches a predetermined time period e.g. 1.0 second . For example the controller determines whether or not a predetermined time period elapses after the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. When the time period counted by the timer reaches the predetermined time period that is when YES is selected in step S the surface potential sensor measures a surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt via the conductive brush and the metal plate in step S. In step S the recording member records the measured surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt . In step S the controller calculates and determines a proper transfer bias to be applied by the first transfer rollers A B C and D to transfer a toner image at which the image forming apparatus can provide proper transfer efficiency and image quality. In step S the image forming apparatus starts an image forming operation or other control operation.

In the flowchart shown in the surface potential sensor measures the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt when the intermediate transfer belt does not rotate. Alternatively the surface potential sensor may measure the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt when the intermediate transfer belt rotates at a speed slower than a speed at which the intermediate transfer belt rotates during the image forming operation. In this case measurement error may increase. Therefore it is preferable to measure the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt when the intermediate transfer belt stops rotating.

As illustrated in when the intermediate transfer belt has a volume resistivity of about 10 cm several tens of seconds are needed to saturate the potential of the intermediate transfer belt after the first transfer roller C applies a voltage. The time period needed to saturate the potential of the intermediate transfer belt also varies depending on the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt . Therefore according to this exemplary embodiment the recording member records the potential of the intermediate transfer belt measured when one second elapses after a voltage is applied to the first transfer roller C and the proper transfer bias is determined based on the recorded potential of the intermediate transfer belt thereby shortening a time period needed for the image forming apparatus to start an image forming operation after powered on. Namely the earlier the potential of the intermediate transfer belt is measured the shorter the time period needed to start the image forming operation. However when the potential of the intermediate transfer belt increases within an excessively short time period at a high speed measurement error may increase. To address this a time for measuring the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt can be properly set according to the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt and variation of the volume resistivity due to an environmental factor.

The surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt can be measured once or a plurality of times. The surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt can be predicted with an improved precision based on the potential increasing speed and curve of the intermediate transfer belt recorded by the recording member .

Referring to the following describes another process for determining a proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus depicted in . is a flowchart illustrating the process for determining the proper transfer bias when a voltage applied to the intermediate transfer belt changes whenever a predetermined time period elapses.

In step S the image forming apparatus is powered on. In step S first and second timers equivalent to the timer are turned on to start counting a time period. In step S before the image forming apparatus starts an image forming operation that is when the photoconductive drums A B C and D the first transfer rollers A B C and D and the intermediate transfer belt stop rotating the power sources C and D serving as constant voltage power sources apply predetermined voltages to the first transfer rollers C and D respectively. Simultaneously the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. In step S the controller determines whether or not the time period counted by the first timer reaches a predetermined first time period. For example the controller determines whether or not a predetermined first time period elapses after the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. When the time period counted by the first timer reaches the predetermined first time period that is when YES is selected in step S the surface potential sensor measures a surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt via the conductive brush and the metal plate in step S. In step S the recording member records the measured surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt . In step S the controller determines whether or not the time period counted by the second timer reaches a predetermined second time period. For example the controller determines whether or not a predetermined second time period elapses after the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. When the time period counted by the second timer does not reach the predetermined second time period that is when NO is selected in step S the first timer is reset in step S. In step S a voltage applied to measure the potential of the intermediate transfer belt that is a voltage applied by the first transfer roller C is changed in step S. When the time period counted by the second timer reaches the predetermined second time period that is when YES is selected in step S the controller calculates and determines a proper transfer bias to be applied by the first transfer rollers A B C and D in step S. In step S the image forming apparatus starts an image forming operation or other control operation.

Determining the proper transfer bias as described above changes the potential of the intermediate transfer belt transiently. Further a material included in the intermediate transfer belt causes an electric field to affect the resistance of the intermediate transfer belt . Considering those the potential of the intermediate transfer belt is measured by changing the voltage applied to the intermediate transfer belt and the surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt is predicted based on a potential change curve recorded by the recording member with an improved precision. In other words even when the intermediate transfer belt includes an electron conduction material such as a carbon dispersion material the controller can determine the proper transfer bias with an improved precision.

The surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt may be predicted based on an electric current flowing between the first transfer rollers C and D. However in general image forming apparatuses using electrophotography an electric current in an amount of about 1 A flows between the first transfer rollers C and D. Therefore a high precision ammeter may be needed or measurement error may increase. To address this in the image forming apparatus according to this exemplary embodiment the surface potential sensor that is a non contact type sensor measures the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt . When the non contact type sensor is used an electric charge does not escape from the intermediate transfer belt . Further the non contact type sensor can measure a slight amount of electric charges as a great potential by decreasing an amount of electrostatic charges around a measurement area on the intermediate transfer belt .

The surface potential sensor may be provided near the outer circumferential surface or the inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . In this case the surface potential sensor measures a small area on the intermediate transfer belt . Further variation in the surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt or toner particles on the intermediate transfer belt may degrade sensitivity of the surface potential sensor . To address this according to this exemplary embodiment the conductive brush contacts the inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt across substantially the full width of the intermediate transfer belt . The conductive brush is connected to the metal plate via the conductive wire so that the surface potential sensor measures the potential of the metal plate . Thus the surface potential sensor can measure an average potential of the intermediate transfer belt properly. An experiment performed by locating the image forming apparatus in an environmental condition of high temperature and humidity an environmental condition of ambient temperature and humidity and an environmental condition of low temperature and humidity revealed that the image forming apparatus could provide high transfer efficiency and high image quality under such various environmental conditions.

According to this exemplary embodiment the first transfer rollers C and D serve as voltage appliers for applying a voltage to the intermediate transfer belt . Alternatively the first transfer rollers A and B may serve as the voltage appliers. Yet alternatively the photoconductive drums A B C and D or other members may apply a voltage to the intermediate transfer belt .

Further according to this exemplary embodiment the surface potential sensor is provided at a position between the first transfer rollers C and D to measure the potential of the intermediate transfer belt . Alternatively the surface potential sensor may be provided at a position between adjacent stations e.g. the image forming units A A A and A a position upstream from the first transfer roller A in the rotating direction A of the intermediate transfer belt a position downstream from the first transfer roller D in the rotating direction A of the intermediate transfer belt or a position near the counter roller so as to provide effects equivalent to the effects provided by the surface potential sensor disposed between the first transfer rollers C and D.

Referring to the following describes an image forming apparatus A according to another exemplary embodiment. is a schematic view of the image forming apparatus A. The image forming apparatus A includes conductive brushes and and switches and . The other elements of the image forming apparatus A are common to the image forming apparatus depicted in .

The conductive brushes and serving as voltage application members apply a voltage to the intermediate transfer belt . The switch turns on and off a bias supplied to the conductive brush and the first transfer roller C. The switch turns on and off a bias supplied to the conductive brush and the first transfer roller D. The conductive brush is provided upstream from the first transfer roller C in the rotating direction A of the intermediate transfer belt . Points of a conductive fiber of the conductive brush contact the inner circumferential surface e.g. the back surface of the intermediate transfer belt . Similarly the conductive brush is provided upstream from the first transfer roller D in the rotating direction A of the intermediate transfer belt . The conductive brushes and have a structure substantially equivalent to the structure of the conductive brush shown in . Specifically an aluminum plate equivalent to the aluminum plate A has a substantially rectangular plate shape and serves as a base. A conductive fiber equivalent to the conductive fiber B includes a nylon resin containing carbon black and is implanted on the aluminum plate. The switch selectively connects the power source C to the first transfer roller C or the conductive brush . Similarly the switch selectively connects the power source D to the first transfer roller D or the conductive brush .

Referring to the following describes a process for determining a proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus A depicted in . is a flowchart illustrating the process for determining the proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus A. An image forming operation performed by the image forming apparatus A is common to the image forming operation performed by the image forming apparatus depicted in and thereby the description of the image forming operation is omitted.

In step S the image forming apparatus A is powered on. In step S the timer is turned on to start counting a time period. In step S before the image forming apparatus A starts an image forming operation that is when the photoconductive drums A B C and D the first transfer rollers A B C and D and the intermediate transfer belt stop rotating the power sources C and D serving as constant voltage power sources apply predetermined voltages for example 1 000 V and 0 V to the conductive brushes and respectively. Accordingly the conductive brushes and apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. In step S the controller determines whether or not the time period counted by the timer reaches a predetermined first time period. For example the controller determines whether or not a predetermined first time period elapses after the conductive brushes and apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. When the time period counted by the timer reaches the predetermined first time period that is when YES is selected in step S the surface potential sensor measures a surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt in step S. In step S the controller calculates a surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt based on the measured surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt and a relation between a pre recorded potential and the surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt and the recording member records the calculated surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt . In step S the switches and are turned on to connect the power sources C and D to the first transfer rollers C and D respectively. In step S the power sources C and D apply predetermined voltages to the first transfer rollers C and D respectively. Accordingly the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. In step S the controller determines whether or not the time period counted by the timer after the timer is turned on in step S reaches a predetermined third time period. Alternatively the controller determines whether or not a predetermined third time period elapses after the first transfer rollers C and D apply the voltages to the intermediate transfer belt respectively. When the time period counted by the timer reaches the predetermined third time period that is when YES is selected in step S the surface potential sensor measures the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt again in step S. In step S the recording member records the measured surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt . In step S the controller calculates and determines a proper transfer bias to be applied by the first transfer rollers A B C and D to transfer a toner image at which the image forming apparatus A can provide proper transfer efficiency and image quality. In step S the image forming apparatus A starts an image forming operation or other control operation.

According to this exemplary embodiment the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt affected by a resistance of the first transfer rollers C and D or the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt changing over time is measured and recorded. On the other hands when the recording member records in advance relations between the proper transfer bias and the potential of the intermediate transfer belt with combinations of the intermediate transfer belt and the first transfer rollers C and D having various resistances the proper transfer bias that compensates for change in resistance of the intermediate transfer belt and the first transfer rollers C and D due to change in an environmental condition can be determined based on the potential of the intermediate transfer belt affected by the resistance of the first transfer rollers C and D the recorded relations between the proper transfer bias and the potential of the intermediate transfer belt or the relation between the proper transfer bias and the predicted surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt . Thus the image forming apparatus A can determine the proper transfer bias with an improved precision that compensates for the change in resistance of the first transfer rollers C and D due to the change in the environmental condition affecting measurement of the potential of the intermediate transfer belt providing improved image quality.

Referring to the following describes an image forming apparatus B according to yet another exemplary embodiment. is a schematic view of the image forming apparatus B. The image forming apparatus B does not include the conductive brush and the metal plate depicted in . The non contact type surface potential sensor is provided near the driving roller serving as a conductor. The other elements of the image forming apparatus B are common to the image forming apparatus depicted in .

The surface potential sensor of the image forming apparatus B is identical with the surface potential sensor of the image forming apparatus . The driving roller serves as a conductor including metal. The driving roller contacts the inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt across the full width of the intermediate transfer belt . Accordingly the surface potential sensor can measure an average potential of the intermediate transfer belt . Consequently the conductive brush and the metal plate can be omitted in the image forming apparatus B reducing manufacturing costs. The driving roller is grounded via a switch during an image forming operation and electrically floated when the potential of the intermediate transfer belt is measured. An image forming operation and a process for determining a proper transfer bias performed in the image forming apparatus B are equivalent to the image forming operation and the process for determining the proper transfer bias performed in the image forming apparatus and thereby descriptions about the image forming operation and the process for determining the proper transfer bias performed in the image forming apparatus B are omitted.

Referring to the following describes an image forming apparatus C according to yet another exemplary embodiment. is a schematic view of the image forming apparatus C. The image forming apparatus C includes a sheet supplier C and a power source . The sheet supplier C includes a paper tray a feeding roller conveyance roller pairs and a registration roller pair and a conveyance path . The conveyance roller pair includes rollers A and B. The conveyance roller pair includes rollers A and B. The registration roller pair includes rollers A and B. The image forming apparatus C does not include the conductive brush . The metal plate and the surface potential sensor are connected to the roller A of the conveyance roller pair . The power sources A B C D and are connected to the controller . The other elements of the image forming apparatus C are common to the image forming apparatus depicted in .

In the image forming apparatus the first transfer rollers C and D serve as voltage appliers. However in the image forming apparatus C one of the conveyance roller pairs and serves as a voltage applier. The conveyance roller pairs and are provided on the conveyance path connecting the paper tray to the second transfer nip formed between the intermediate transfer belt and the second transfer belt to convey a transfer sheet S from the paper tray to the second transfer nip. Further in the image forming apparatus the conductive brush the metal plate and the surface potential sensor serving as a potential measurement device measure the surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt . However in the image forming apparatus C the metal plate and the surface potential sensor serving as a potential measurement device measure a surface potential of a transfer sheet S.

In the sheet supplier C the paper tray contains transfer sheets S serving as a transfer material and having a predetermined size e.g. A4 size . The feeding roller feeds the transfer sheets S loaded on the paper tray one by one toward the registration roller pair through the conveyance path illustrated in a broken line in . A plurality of conveyance roller pairs that is two conveyance roller pairs and according to this exemplary embodiment is provided on the conveyance path with a predetermined distance provided between the conveyance roller pairs and . The registration roller pair feeds the transfer sheet S to the second transfer nip formed between the intermediate transfer belt and the second transfer belt at a proper time.

The power source serving as a constant voltage power source and a voltage applier is electrically connected to the roller A that is one of rollers forming the conveyance roller pair provided closer to the paper tray than the conveyance roller pair is. The power source and the roller A serve as a voltage applier. The metal plate and the surface potential sensor serving as a potential measurement device are connected to the roller A that is one of rollers forming the conveyance roller pair .

The potential measurement device includes the metal plate and the surface potential sensor . The metal plate has a rectangular plate shape and is connected to the roller A via a conductive material. A predetermined gap is provided between the metal plate and the surface potential sensor that is a non contact type sensor. When the transfer sheet S contacts both the conveyance roller pairs and the power source applies a voltage to the transfer sheet S via the roller A and the surface potential sensor measures a potential of the transfer sheet S via the roller A and the metal plate .

The conveyance roller pair includes the rollers A and B opposing each other. The roller A serves as a conductive roller and the roller B serves as a non conductive roller. The roller bases D of the conductive roller A include a conductive rubber containing conductive carbon black. For example at least an outer circumferential surface of the roller bases D which contacts the transfer sheet S includes the conductive rubber. A resistance of the conductive rubber is sufficiently lower than a resistance of the transfer sheet S. Preferably the conductive rubber has a volume resistivity not greater than 10 cm. On the contrary the roller B may not be conductive and thereby the roller bases D of the roller B may include either a conductive material or an insulative material. However when an outer circumferential surface of the roller B has an electric resistance lower than an electric resistance of the transfer sheet S an electric charge injected by the power source depicted in into the transfer sheet S via the conductive roller A may escape from the transfer sheet S via the roller B. To prevent this at least the outer circumferential surface of the roller B has an electric resistance sufficiently greater than the electric resistance of the transfer sheet S preferably a volume resistivity not smaller than 10 cm. Similarly when an outer circumferential surface of the roller B has conductivity the conductivity of the roller B may affect a potential measured by the conductive roller A. Therefore the roller B preferably includes a high resistance material having a volume resistivity not smaller than 10 cm or an insulative material.

Like the conveyance roller pairs and depicted in the registration roller pair includes the rollers A and B opposing each other. The roller A serves as a conductive roller and the roller B serves as a non conductive roller. However unlike in the conveyance roller pairs and in the registration roller pair each of the rollers A and B includes one shaft C and one roller base D having a width slightly greater than a width of a transfer sheet S fed by the registration roller pair . The roller A that is one of rollers forming the registration roller pair is grounded via a conductive material to quickly move an electric charge injected into the transfer sheet S by a voltage applied by the roller A and the power source serving as a voltage applier into the ground. Accordingly the roller A is formed of a metal roller including stainless steel. Alternatively the roller A may not be formed of the metal roller. For example the roller A may include a rubber material or a resin material having a volume resistivity not greater than 10 cm to quickly move the electric charge injected into the transfer sheet S into the ground. The roller B may include either a conductive material or an insulative material. However an outer circumferential surface of the roller B preferably includes a resin material having elasticity such as rubber so that the registration roller pair can nip the transfer sheet S effectively.

Referring to the following describes a process for determining a proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus C depicted in . is a flowchart illustrating the process for determining the proper transfer bias in the image forming apparatus C.

In step S the image forming apparatus C receives scanner data or print data. In step S the feeding roller and the conveyance roller pairs and start rotating and thereby the feeding roller feeds transfer sheets S loaded on the paper tray one by one toward the registration roller pair via the conveyance roller pairs and so that the transfer sheet S is contacted and stopped by the registration roller pair . In step S the controller determines whether or not the transfer sheet S reaches the registration roller pair . If the transfer sheet S reaches the registration roller pair e.g. if YES is selected in step S the feeding roller and the conveyance roller pairs and stop rotating in step S. In step S the timer is turned on. In step S the power source applies a predetermined voltage e.g. 100 V to the transfer sheet S via the conductive roller A. Simultaneously the timer starts counting a time period. The conductive roller A is grounded. Therefore an electric charge injected by the conductive roller A into the transfer sheet S moves to the conductive roller A to increase a surface potential of the transfer sheet S. Consequently a potential of the conductive roller A also increases. In step S the controller determines whether or not the time period counted after the power source applies the predetermined voltage reaches a predetermined fourth time period e.g. 1.0 second . If the counted time period reaches the predetermined fourth time period e.g. if YES is selected in step S the surface potential sensor measures the surface potential of the transfer sheet S via the metal plate in step S. In step S the recording member records the measured surface potential of the transfer sheet S. Prior examinations such as experiments may measure surface potentials of transfer sheets S having different surface resistivities respectively when the predetermined fourth time period elapses so as to store the measured surface potentials into a database. In step S the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S is predicted based on the measured surface potential of the transfer sheet S and the surface potentials stored in the database. In step S the controller calculates and determines a proper transfer bias e.g. a second transfer bias to be applied by the counter roller to transfer a toner image from the intermediate transfer belt onto the transfer sheet S based on the predicted surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S. In step S the feeding roller and the conveyance roller pairs and resume rotating. In step S the image forming apparatus C starts an image forming operation and other control operation.

In the flowchart shown in the surface potential sensor measures the surface potential of the transfer sheet S when the transfer sheet S stops. Alternatively the surface potential sensor may measure the surface potential of the transfer sheet S when the transfer sheet S is conveyed at a speed slower than a speed at which the transfer sheet S is conveyed during the image forming operation. In this case measurement error may increase. Therefore it is preferable to measure the surface potential of the transfer sheet S when the transfer sheet S stops.

An increasing speed of the potential of the transfer sheet S varies depending on the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S. The lower the surface resistivity is the faster the increasing speed of the potential of the transfer sheet S is. Namely the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S can be predicted by measuring the increasing speed of the potential of the transfer sheet S or the potential of the transfer sheet S when a predetermined time period elapses after a voltage is applied. The proper transfer bias for forming an image is determined based on such relation and the measured potential or the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S. Thus the image forming apparatus C can provide an improved robustness against the resistance of the transfer sheet S varying depending on type of the transfer sheet S or an environmental condition of the image forming apparatus C.

The potential measurement device e.g. the metal plate and the surface potential sensor measured the surface potential of the three types of a transfer sheet S having the three different volume resistivities respectively over time according to Japanese Industrial Standards JIS K6911. As illustrated in when the transfer sheets S have the surface resistivities around 10 cm respectively several seconds are needed for the surface potential of the three types of a transfer sheet S to saturate after the conductive roller A depicted in applies a voltage. However the three types of a transfer sheet S indicate different characteristics in a process to saturation respectively. Namely the graph shown in indicates a relation in which the higher the surface resistivity is the slower the speed for the surface potential of the transfer sheet S to reach saturation. According to such relation the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S can be predicted based on the potential of the transfer sheet S measured by the potential measurement device after a predetermined time period elapses.

Further as illustrated in the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S and the proper transfer bias show the directly proportional linear relation. Therefore proper transfer biases of transfer sheets S having various surface resistivities can be obtained in advance in an experiment for example to store the obtained data into a database and retrieve a graphic curve from the stored data. Namely the proper transfer bias can be determined based on the surface resistivity plotted on the graphic curve. For example according to this exemplary embodiment when one second elapses after a voltage is applied the surface potential of the transfer sheet S is measured and the recording member records the measured surface potential of the transfer sheet S. The controller determines the proper transfer bias based on the recorded surface potential of the transfer sheet S. Thus measuring the surface potential of the transfer sheet S once when the predetermined time period elapses can determine the proper transfer bias shortening a time period needed before an image forming operation starts after the image forming apparatus C receives image data. Alternatively the surface potential of the transfer sheet S may be measured for a plurality of times. Measuring the surface potential of the transfer sheet S for the plurality of times retrieves an increasing speed or an increasing curve of the surface potential of the transfer sheet S recorded by the recording member . Accordingly the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S can be predicted based on the retrieved data with an improved precision. However a longer time period is needed to start an image forming operation.

Alternatively the surface resistivity of the transfer sheet S may be predicted by measuring an electric current flowing between the conductive roller A and the metal roller A when a voltage is applied to the conductive roller A. However under a condition that the transfer sheet S has a surface resistivity of 10 cm a distance between the conductive roller A and the metal roller A is 10 cm the conductive roller A has a width of 10 cm and a voltage of 100 V is applied to the conductive roller A the electric current flowing between the conductive roller A and the metal roller A shows a relation of I V R 100 1E9 0.1 0.1 1E 7 0.1 A. Accordingly a high precision ammeter capable of measuring a microelectric current is needed. The microelectric current may be affected by noise generating increased measurement error. To address this in the image forming apparatus C the non contact type surface potential sensor measures the surface potential of the transfer sheet S and recognizes a slight difference in an amount of electric charge as an enlarged electric signal corresponding to the difference between the surface resistivities of the transfer sheet S. Especially when elements provided around the surface potential sensor include a resin to have a small electrostatic capacity that is when the elements are electrically floated the surface potential sensor can provide improved measurement sensitivity.

According to this exemplary embodiment the surface potential sensor is a non contact type sensor. Alternatively the surface potential sensor may be replaced by a contact type sensor or a contact type high voltage probe. When the surface potential sensor is replaced by the contact type sensor or probe an amount of electric charge flowing into the sensor or the probe increases with respect to an amount of electric charge flowing inside a transfer sheet S unless the sensor or the probe has a sufficiently high input impedance. Accordingly the input impedance of the sensor or the probe may affect the measurement. When an A4 size sheet having a thickness of 100 m and a volume resistivity of 10 cm is used as a transfer sheet S both edges of the transfer sheet S in a long direction of the transfer sheet S have a resistance represented by 1E9 0.293 100E 6 0.21 1.4E13 . Therefore the contact type sensor or probe may preferably have an input impedance having a resistance greater by about double digit than the above resistance of the both edges of the transfer sheet S that is a resistance not smaller than 10 .

Alternatively the surface potential sensor may be provided near a front surface or a back surface of a transfer sheet S. However in this case the transfer sheet S may be jammed. Moreover the surface potential sensor may measure a limited area on the transfer sheet S. Varied resistances of the transfer sheet S may also affect measurement of the surface potential sensor and paper dust generated by the transfer sheet S may degrade sensitivity of the surface potential sensor . To address those according to this exemplary embodiment the conductive roller A is connected to the metal plate via a conductive wire so that the surface potential sensor measures a surface potential of the metal plate .

Alternatively any member having an arbitrary shape other than the conductive rollers A and A may apply a voltage to a transfer sheet S and may contact the transfer sheet S to measure a potential of the transfer sheet S as long as such member is a conductive member which can stably contact the transfer sheet S. However change in position at which the conductive member applies a voltage to the transfer sheet S or change in contact area in which the conductive member contacts the transfer sheet S may cause variation in measurement of the surface potential sensor and may cause the transfer sheet S to be jammed while the transfer sheet S is conveyed. To address those according to this exemplary embodiment the conductive rollers A and A are used to stably apply a voltage to the transfer sheet S to stably measure the voltage of the transfer sheet S and to prevent the transfer sheet S from being jammed. Further the metal roller A is grounded to provide a path for stably supplying an electric current inside the transfer sheet S resulting in measurement of the potential of the transfer sheet S with an improved reproduction. Thus the image forming apparatus C can determine and apply a proper transfer bias under any temperature and humidity with any type of transfer sheet S providing improved transfer efficiency and output of a high quality image.

According to the above described exemplary embodiments each of the image forming apparatus depicted in the image forming apparatus A depicted in the image forming apparatus B depicted in and the image forming apparatus C depicted in serves as a tandem type image forming apparatus using the indirect transfer method. Alternatively the above described exemplary embodiments may be applied to an image forming apparatus using the direct transfer method.

The conveyance belt D is looped over the driving roller and the driven roller and conveys a transfer sheet S in a direction E to transfer nips at which toner images are transferred from the photoconductive drums A B C and D onto the transfer sheet S conveyed by the conveyance belt D. Specifically the first transfer rollers A B C and D serving as transfer members apply transfer biases onto the conveyance belt D serving as a transfer electric field generator to generate a transfer electric field to transfer the toner images from photoconductive drums A B C and D serving as image carriers and superimpose the toner images onto the transfer sheet S serving as a toner image receiver. Thus a color toner image is formed on the transfer sheet S.

The conductive brush the metal plate and the surface potential sensor serving as a potential measurement device measure a surface potential of the conveyance belt D.

Alternatively the image forming apparatus D may further include the conductive brushes and and the switches and depicted in . Yet alternatively the image forming apparatus D may not include the conductive brush and the metal plate and the surface potential sensor may be provided near the driving roller as illustrated in . Yet alternatively the metal plate and the surface potential sensor may be connected to the sheet supplier C depicted in .

Namely the above described exemplary embodiments may be applied to any image forming apparatus including a transfer device in which one or more transfer members apply a transfer bias to an intermediate transfer belt a conveyance belt or a transfer sheet serving as a transfer electric field generator to transfer a toner image formed on an image carrier onto the intermediate transfer belt or the transfer sheet using the direct or indirect transfer method.

The exposure device the image forming device the sheet supplier C the fixing device the controller the recording member and the like according to the above described exemplary embodiments are examples and may have other known structures and shapes to provide the above described effects.

In an image forming apparatus e.g. the image forming apparatus depicted in the image forming apparatus A depicted in the image forming apparatus B depicted in the image forming apparatus C depicted in and the image forming apparatus D depicted in according to the above described exemplary embodiments a potential measurement device e.g. the conductive brush depicted in and and the metal plate and the surface potential sensor depicted in and measures a surface potential of a transfer electric field generator e.g. the intermediate transfer belt depicted in and the transfer sheet S depicted in and the conveyance belt D in when a predetermined time period elapses after a voltage applier e.g. the first transfer rollers C and D depicted in and the power sources C and D depicted in and the counter roller and the power source depicted in and the power source depicted in and the roller A depicted in applies a predetermined voltage to the transfer electric field generator. Based on the measured surface potential of the transfer electric field generator the image forming apparatus determines a proper transfer bias to be applied by a transfer member e.g. the first transfer rollers A B C and D depicted in and and the counter roller depicted in and to the transfer electric field generator to transfer a toner image onto a toner image receiver e.g. the intermediate transfer belt depicted in and and the transfer sheet S depicted in and . Therefore change in electric resistance of the transfer electric field generator due to change in an environmental condition and deterioration of the transfer electric field generator over time may not prevent stable generation of a transfer electric field resulting in output of a high quality image.

The potential measurement device measures the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator while the transfer electric field generator stops moving or moves at a speed slower than a speed at which the transfer electric field generator moves during an image forming operation. Therefore measurement error may not occur due to vibration of the transfer electric field generator. Accordingly the potential measurement device can provide an improved measurement precision. Further a surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator can be predicted with an improved precision. Consequently the image forming apparatus can determine a proper transfer bias.

The image forming apparatus further includes a recording member e.g. the recording member in and for recording the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator measured by the potential measurement device and a controller e.g. the controller depicted in and for controlling operations of the image forming apparatus. The recording member records the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator measured by the potential measurement device together with a time period counted by a timer e.g. the timer depicted in and . Based on the measured surface potential of the transfer electric field generator and the counted time period the controller determines a proper transfer bias to be applied by the transfer member to the transfer electric field generator to transfer a toner image. Therefore the controller can recognize the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator as a function of time. Accordingly the controller can predict the surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator by comparing a curve plotted by the measured surface potentials of the transfer electric field generator and an increasing speed of the measured surface potentials of the transfer electric field generator with experimental data so as to determine a proper transfer bias with an improved precision.

The potential measurement device includes a conductor e.g. the conductive brush depicted in and the driving roller depicted in the driven roller depicted in and the roller A depicted in for contacting the transfer electric field generator and a non contact type surface potential sensor e.g. the surface potential sensor depicted in and separated from the conductor with a predetermined gap provided between the surface potential sensor and the conductor. When the surface potential sensor is provided close to a belt member or a transfer material serving as the transfer electric field generator toner particles adhered to the belt member or paper dust adhered to the transfer material may degrade measurement sensitivity of the surface potential sensor. To address this the surface potential sensor does not contact the transfer electric field generator. Further a general surface potential sensor measures a potential of the transfer electric field generator in a small area and is vulnerable to variation in resistance of the belt member. To address this the surface potential sensor according to the above described exemplary embodiments measures a potential of the conductor contacting the transfer electric field generator with a stable high sensitivity. Generally a slight amount of electric charge is injected into the transfer electric field generator and thereby it is difficult to measure an amount of electric current. To address this the non contact type surface potential sensor according to the above described exemplary embodiments does not allow the injected electric charge to escape from the transfer electric field generator. The surface potential of the transfer electric field generator is inversely proportional to an electrostatic capacity. Thus the surface potential sensor measures the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator at a position having a small electrostatic capacity with a high sensitivity.

A general surface potential sensor measures a potential of the transfer electric field generator in a small area and is vulnerable to local variation in resistance of the transfer electric field generator including a non uniform material. To address this according to the above described exemplary embodiments the conductor contacts the transfer electric field generator across substantially a full width of the transfer electric field generator. Thus the surface potential sensor can stably measure an average surface potential of the transfer electric field generator with an improved precision.

When a time period elapsed after the voltage applier applies a voltage reaches a predetermined second time period the controller changes the voltage to be applied by the voltage applier to the transfer electric field generator. Namely the potential of the transfer electric field generator changes transiently. Further an electric field may affect a resistance of the transfer electric field generator when the transfer electric field generator includes some material. Considering those the potential of the transfer electric field generator is measured while the applied voltage is changed so as to predict the surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator based on a curve plotted by the changed surface potentials of the transfer electric field generator. Accordingly the surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator can be predicted with an improved precision.

The voltage applier applies a voltage to the transfer electric field generator via an image carrier e.g. the photoconductive drums A B C and D depicted in and and the intermediate transfer belt depicted in and or the transfer member. Therefore a voltage application member e.g. the conductive brushes and depicted in is not needed decreasing a number of elements and saving space.

The voltage applier includes the voltage application member which is neither the image carrier nor the transfer member for contacting the transfer electric field generator to apply a voltage to the transfer electric field generator. In other words the voltage application member other than the image carrier and the transfer member applies a voltage to the transfer electric field generator. Therefore a resistance of the image carrier or the transfer member may not affect measurement of the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. Accordingly a proper transfer bias can be determined more precisely.

The voltage applier includes a constant voltage power source. A switch e.g. the switches and depicted in connects the constant voltage power source to the voltage application member or the transfer member. Therefore the resistance of the image carrier or the transfer member may not affect measurement of the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. Also the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator which is affected by the resistance of the image carrier or the transfer member can be measured. Accordingly the surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator can be predicted with an improved precision by considering affection of the resistance of the transfer member when the transfer member applies a transfer bias. Further the image forming apparatus can determine a proper transfer bias to be applied by the transfer member to the transfer electric field generator to transfer a toner image.

As illustrated in an intermediate transfer belt e.g. the intermediate transfer belt having an endless belt shape serves as the transfer electric field generator. A driving roller e.g. the driving roller for rotating the intermediate transfer belt or a driven roller e.g. the driven roller driven by the driving roller serves as the conductor. A surface potential sensor e.g. the surface potential sensor is provided inside a loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt in such a manner that a predetermined gap is provided between the surface potential sensor and one of the driving roller and the driven roller decreasing a number of elements and reducing measurement error due to vibration of the intermediate transfer belt of which potential is measured. The driving roller or the driven roller contacts the intermediate transfer belt across substantially a full width of the intermediate transfer belt. Thus an average surface potential of the intermediate transfer belt can be measured stably with an improved precision.

As illustrated in a voltage applier e.g. the power source applies a voltage to a transfer material e.g. a transfer sheet S serving as the transfer electric field generator via a conveyance roller e.g. the roller A for conveying the transfer material. Therefore change in surface resistivity of the transfer material due to change in an environmental condition can be predicted. Thus the change in the environmental condition may not affect generation of a stable transfer electric field resulting in output of a high quality image.

The voltage applier applies a voltage to the transfer electric field generator. When a predetermined time period elapses the potential measurement device measures a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. Based on the measured surface potential of the transfer electric field generator the image forming apparatus determines a proper transfer bias to be applied by the transfer member to the transfer electric field generator to transfer a toner image. Even when a resistance of the intermediate transfer belt or the transfer material serving as the transfer electric field generator changes substantially under an environmental condition of high temperature and humidity or an environmental condition of low temperature and humidity the proper transfer bias can be selected to transfer the toner image providing an improved robust control against change in the environmental condition and formation of a high quality image.

The voltage applier applies a voltage to the transfer electric field generator. When a predetermined time period elapses the potential measurement device measures a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. When another predetermined time period elapses the voltage applied by the voltage applier is changed and the voltage applier applies the changed voltage to the transfer electric field generator. When yet another predetermined time period elapses the potential measurement device measures the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. A surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator is predicted based on a curve plotted by the measured surface potentials of the transfer electric field generator. Accordingly in addition to the above described effects even when the toner image receiver serving as the transfer electric field generator is affected by an electric field the surface resistivity of the transfer electric field generator can be predicted with an improved precision. Further a proper transfer bias can be selected to form a high quality image.

One of the transfer members is used as the voltage applier to apply a voltage to the transfer electric field generator. When a predetermined time period elapses the potential measurement device measures a surface potential of the transfer electric field generator. Then the voltage application member is used as the voltage applier to apply a voltage to the transfer electric field generator. When a predetermined time period elapses the potential measurement device measures the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator again. A proper transfer bias to be applied by the transfer member to the transfer electric field generator to transfer a toner image is determined to compensate for change in resistance of the transfer member based on the measured surface potentials of the transfer electric field generator. Namely the proper transfer bias can be determined and applied with an improved precision to compensate for change in resistance of the transfer member such as a first transfer roller e.g. the first transfer rollers A B C and D depicted in and due to change in an environmental condition affecting measurement of the surface potential of the transfer electric field generator resulting in formation of a high quality image.

The conveyance roller applies a voltage to the transfer material. When a predetermined time period elapses the potential measurement device measures a surface potential of the transfer material. A surface resistivity of the transfer material is predicted based on the measured surface potential of the transfer material. Based on the predicted surface resistivity of the transfer material a proper transfer bias to be applied by the transfer member to the transfer material to transfer a toner image is determined. Thus change in surface resistivity of the transfer material due to change in an environmental condition can be predicted with an improved precision. Accordingly a robust control can be provided against change in the environmental condition resulting in formation of a high quality image.

The present invention has been described above with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. Note that the present invention is not limited to the details of the embodiments described above but various modifications and enhancements are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore to be understood that the present invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. For example elements and or features of different illustrative exemplary embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of the present invention.

