---

title: Automated business system and method of vending and returning a consumer product
abstract: System and method of dispensing disc-based media and other consumer products. A user can interact with an automated business system to select disc-based media for rental and/or purchase. The automated business system can retrieve the selection from the interior of the automated business system and dispense the selection through a port to the user. The automated business system can retrieve the selection from the port in a return process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086349&OS=08086349&RS=08086349
owner: NCR Corporation
number: 08086349
owner_city: Duluth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20081204
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 477 619 filed Jun. 11 2003 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 10 866 387 filed Jun. 11 2004 entitled Automated Business System and Method of Vending and Returning a Consumer Product which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 477 619 filed Jun. 11 2003.

Over the years the world of home entertainment has changed radically. These days most U.S. households get at least 50 channels of television programming and have a color television and a VCR and or a DVD player. The way in which pre recorded programming is accessed by the consumer is changing rapidly providing the consumer with a wide range of options.

People have had VCRs in their homes for years and in the United States there are video rental stores everywhere. More and more households are adding advanced components to their entertainment setup to create home theater systems. As more and more households purchase DVD players video game consoles and other advanced media products video rental stores have had to adjust their inventory to accommodate this changing demand for more advanced media such as the digital versatile disc DVD . Today video rental stores include a variety of media e.g. feature length film DVDs video games audio CDs and VHS videos. In addition other companies have recently entered the market to offer households a method of renting movies or other media different from the traditional practice of visiting the local video rental store.

For example Blockbuster Hollywood Video and Movie Gallery operate the traditional video rental store. A consumer completes a membership form to become a member of the store which allows the consumer to rent movies games etc. from the available inventory for a rental fee per item. Generally the rental fee is based on the length of time e.g. 2 days the consumer has until the item must be returned to the store. If the item is not returned to the store on time the consumer is assessed an additional fee fine for the additional length of time the consumer holds onto the item. Generally the item is required to be returned to the same store.

NetFlix is a mail based method of DVD movie rental. The consumer becomes a member by paying a monthly subscription fee which allows the consumer to select as many DVDs each month for viewing as long as the consumer has no more than three DVDs at anyone time. The consumer selects DVDs at the NetFlix web site. The DVD is mailed via first class mail to the consumer and the consumer returns the DVD to NetFlix using a prepaid mailer at a convenient time there is no deadline for returning the DVD. After NetFlix receives the returned DVD NetFlix sends out the next DVD on the consumer s selection list which is stored on the NetFlix Internet server.

AOL Time Warner and Cox Communications provide pay per view and video on demand services to cable subscribers. The consumer pays a monthly fee to subscribe to the cable services which provides access to the company s selection of movies. The consumer selects a movie in the comfort of their home and is charged a movie rental fee that appears on the consumer s monthly bill. If the consumer selects a pay per view movie the movie plays on the consumer s television without interruption. If the consumer subscribes to digital cable and selects a movie through video on demand the movie plays on the consumer s television but the consumer also has VCR like control over the movie to stop and pause as necessary.

Movielink is a PC download method of movie rental. Several major movie studios have collaborated to provide access to movies via computer. The consumer selects a movie from the Movielink web site and downloads the file to a computer for a rental fee. The movie must be viewed on the computer and the consumer has a limited amount of time to view the movie before it is deleted from the computer memory.

In one embodiment the invention includes a method of dispensing disc based media. The method comprises selecting the disc based media retrieving the disc based media reading a radio frequency tag on the disc based media and dispensing the disc based media.

In another embodiment the invention includes a method of servicing multiple users of a disc based media system. The method comprises a first user selecting a first disc based media at the disc based media system a second user selecting a second disc based media at the disc based media system at the same time as the first user selected the first disc based media determining an order in which to service the first and second users retrieving the first and second disc based media based on the order and dispensing the first disc based media to the first user and the second disc based media to the second user.

In another embodiment the invention includes an automated business system comprising a housing a user station supported by the housing a retrieval system operable to retrieve disc based media stored in the housing a RFID reader operable to read a RFD tag on the disc based media and a port to dispense the disc based media.

Before any embodiments of the invention are explained in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the following drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limited. The use of including comprising or having and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. The terms mounted connected and coupled are used broadly and encompass both direct and indirect mounting connecting and coupling. Further connected and coupled are not restricted to physical or mechanical connections or couplings and can include electrical connections or couplings whether direct or indirect.

In addition it should be understood that embodiments of the invention include both hardware and electronic components or modules that for purposes of discussion may be illustrated and described as if the majority of the components were implemented solely in hardware. However one of ordinary skill in the art and based on a reading of this detailed description would recognize that in at least one embodiment the electronic based aspects of the invention may be implemented in software. As such it should be noted that a plurality of hardware and software based devices as well as a plurality of different structural components may be utilized to implement the invention. Furthermore and as described in subsequent paragraphs the specific mechanical configurations illustrated in the drawings are intended to exemplify embodiments of the invention and that other alternative mechanical configurations are possible.

Renting or ordering movies is a popular pastime. Therefore it is desirable to have a cost efficient self serving fully automated entertainment media business system that consumers can interact with to rent return and or purchase items. An embodiment of the automated business system described below relates to disc based media e.g. CDs DVDs software and video games. However the automated business system is not limited to disc based media. Additional embodiments of the automated business system can also dispense audio books on tape VHS videotapes books video game cartridges food health and beauty products clothing or any other item that may be desirable to rent or purchase the product s in the automated business system are referred to herein as an item .

The automated business system according to one embodiment of the invention can maintain and track an inventory of items. The items in the preferred embodiment are media related items such as CDs DVDs and disc based video games. The items can be uniquely identified with a radio frequency identification tag referred to herein as RFID tag . The items can be added to inventory by inserting the items through a port. The RFID tag on the item can be read at any location in the automated business system and an entry can be made in the software of the automated business system for tracking inventory and other purposes. The owner of the automated business system can add new stock configured with a unique tag at any time by inserting new items through any access port. The new items can be activated and revealed based on a system administrator s programmed parameters. The compact footprint business system can be located anywhere for consumer use.

When the consumer desires to rent or purchase an item from the automated business system the consumer approaches the automated business system and touches one of the touch panel displays. The consumer can browse through the available inventory for rental and or purchase view a video clip of one or more items reserve one or more items for future rental and or purchase and or select one or more items for rental and or purchase.

If the consumer makes a selection for rental and or purchase the automated business system can retrieve the item or items and position the item or items in a port for the consumer to retrieve. When the consumer is ready to return the item s the consumer places the item s into the port and the automated business system can recognize that the item s is being returned. The consumer can be charged for the item s upon selection and or return.

A fully automated storage and retrieval system is illustrated in according to one embodiment of the invention. The automated storage and retrieval system can function as a free standing fully integrated automated business system for renting and or selling entertainment media educational media and productivity software. The automated business system is completely integrated and thus is not reliant on an external system for functionality. The automated business system can utilize computer software and hardware mechanical hardware and product storage capacity to initiate and complete a rental or sale transaction without external support.

The automated business system illustrated in can distribute disc based media such as DVDs CDs video games and computer software. The disc based media includes a radio frequency tag that can identify the disc based media. Other media formats such as audio cassette tapes and VHS format cassette tapes can also be distributed through the automated business system .

The automated business system includes a frame illustrated in which supports a housing . The housing can be comprised of metal plastic wood composite material or any other suitable material. The housing can accommodate any number of user stations and can be configured to satisfy the requirements of retailers throughout the world. The plurality of user stations are positioned on the automated business system to service multiple users simultaneously and to process a maximum number of transactions. The size of the automated business system can be adjustable and can vary from the configuration illustrated. For example the automated business system can include 2 4 6 8 etc. user stations . Depending on the number of user stations that are included in the automated business system the internal components assemblies and systems as described below may also change and are configurable to accommodate and service the number of user stations .

In one example the automated business system includes four user stations . The dimensions of the housing can be about six feet long by about four feet deep by about seven feet high. These dimensions can be modified to accommodate any retail requirements. In addition the automated business system is compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act ADA .

The housing can include space for brand name s of the owner of the automated business system and any other owner identifiers. The exterior color material type and ornamental features of the housing can all be modified such that the automated business system can present the desired brand s in the most appealing and commercially effective manner. The housing can include advertising space for other businesses and or products.

Each user station can include an interaction system as illustrated in . The housing can support the components and systems of the consumer interaction system . The consumer interaction system can include a display which can be a standard display or a touch panel display and a card reader operable to read information from a magnetic stripe on a credit card debit card smart card etc. The card reader can accept all available hard card payment types including credit debit smart and stored value. The card reader can also read information stored in an integrated circuit embedded in the hard card substrate. Additionally the card reader can write information to the integrated circuit embedded in the hard card substrate.

The consumer interaction system can include a speaker system operable to provide sound to the user. The speaker system can be a traditional driver based design or a unique design in that sound files played by a user at one of the user stations cannot be heard by other users at adjacent user stations . In the latter case each user station can be uniquely configured and the audio waves of the sound file are directed to the user at the user station . The user station can include auxiliary listening devices.

The consumer interaction system can include a printer operable to print a receipt or any other report and a port operable to dispense and receive the disc based media. The port can be formed as a five slot array as illustrated in . Each slot is separated from the adjacent slot. The consumer interaction system can also include advanced input and output devices such as a microphone voice recognition devices biometrics devices etc.

The consumer interaction system in one construction of the invention includes a 17 touch panel display a suitable display is the ELO Intellitouch 5000 17 touch monitor utilizing surface wave technology which minimizes the loss of brightness or luminescence a right channel and a left channel full range speaker system a receipt printer a magnetic stripe and smart card reader a suitable card reader is the Magtek Intellistripe 65 card reader and a five slot disc array port .

The consumer interaction system can include a processor illustrated in such as a thin client PC appliance a suitable processor is the Neoware EON Professional 6300 thin client . The PC appliance peripherals including the printer the display the card reader and the speaker system are driven by and coupled to the processor . The consumer interaction system can include additional hardware and software applications and is not limited to the hardware and software applications described herein. Additional hardware and software applications can be utilized to operate in the same or a similar manner. In addition it should be noted that the functions of each system and or component can be performed by hardware and or software and or a combination of hardware and software.

The processor can communicate via a switch with a local server operable to process the user requests e.g. rent return purchase entered via the consumer interaction system . The server can communicate with a retrieval system described below operable to receive instructions from the server and retrieve a particular item within the automated business system . The server can communicate with an administrative computer terminal described below operable to perform diagnostic and servicing functions. The administration computer terminal can also communicate with the retrieval system to perform diagnostic and servicing functions. The server can communicate with a network . The network can be accessed by a remote user terminal operable to communicate with the local server . The network can also be accessed by a remote server operable to communicate with the local server .

The network can be built according to any networking technology or topology or combinations of technologies and topologies and may include multiple sub networks. Connections between the server and the network can be made through local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs public switched telephone networks PSTNs Intranets the Internet and or any other suitable networks.

The two way arrows in represent two way communication and information transfer between the network the server the remote user and the server and between the server the processors the retrieval system and the administrative computer terminal .

The servers and can include an operating system for running various software programs and or a communications application. In particular the server can include a software program s that can communicate with the processors the retrieval system the administrative computer terminal and the network . The server can include the same and or additional software program s that can communicate with the remote user terminal and the server via the network . The server can communicate with a database operable to store information received from the processors the server the retrieval system the administrative computer terminal the server and the remote user . The database can be hosted by the server or hosted by the remote server .

In one construction of the invention the automated business system features a LAN comprised of a server multiple thin client PC appliances and a high performance switch . The server can include Microsoft Windows Server 2003 operating system and SQL Server Standard Edition. The server can utilize other software for operation. The server can include redundant power supplies error correcting memory a 72 G RAID 5 hard disc cluster and 1 G of RAM. The server can also utilize multiple dual port Ethernet network interface cards.

The server is connected to a 200 MB switch that is in turn connected to each of the thin clients. The LAN data transmissions can occur over category five cabling or any other suitable network cable or wireless transmission technology.

The thin clients provide delivery of high resolution full motion video that can be stored and transmitted by the server . The zero footprint thin client is mounted behind the touch panel display within the consumer interaction system . The thin clients can include Microsoft embedded XP operating system and utilize 512 MB of RAM in lieu of a hard drive where the operating system and application images are stored.

The server can incorporate a high transmission rate modem enabling the server to communicate with external computing devices.

The network allows a remote computer terminal to communicate with the server via the Internet. The server can be accessed by a public web site that communicates with the remote computer terminal to provide additional information to the user such as but not limited to item s available for rent or purchase location of the item s access to a personal account to review current items rented and the ability to make reservations.

The administrative computer terminal can directly communicate with the server and or motion controller described below to remotely service the automated business system . The administrative computer terminal can adjust the speed sensitivity and timing of the retrieval system can monitor the status of the paper in the printers can verify the power status and status of the doors of the automated business system as shown in example service screens and as illustrated in .

The software program s that resides on the server can include a point of sale software application POS application which is operable to manage the transactional activity between the user and the server . The POS application can manage all of the transactional data and can coordinate multiple simultaneous transactions from the plurality of user stations . The POS application can transmit commands to the retrieval system via a pre configured application programming interface. The POS application can transmit data to external systems via the server modem including but not limited to administrative servers such as server legacy systems and remote user terminals . The remote user terminals communicate with the server via the network which can be the Internet.

The POS application can transmit data to any external system via the server modem in real time or in batch mode. The data transmission can be customized to accommodate a specific information system need. The POS application can also transmit data in an extensible markup language XML format. The data can be transmitted in an authenticated encrypted or other secure manner.

The POS application can initiate and obtain authorization or authentication for each payment attempt before delivering the requested item s to the user. The POS application can be programmed to initiate and obtain the third party service provider payment authorization or authentication directly or the POS application can be programmed to transmit a request for authorization to the retail store s POS infrastructure which can obtain payment authorization in the same or similar manner in which all other host hard card transactions are authorized at the retail establishment. The POS application can also initiate and obtain authorization for gift cards or other stored value cards.

Payment authorization can occur in one of several different ways. When an item is purchased through the automated business system the POS application can initiate and obtain approval utilizing a third party service provider to charge or debit the account number presented by the user. The approval is generally received before the item s are dispensed. When approval is received via the third party service provider the approval code is associated with the specific transaction and can be stored in the database . The item s can then be dispensed to the user.

When an item is rented through the automated business system the POS application may only initiate and request that the account number presented by the user is authentic or valid prior to dispensing the item s . When the item s are returned to the automated business system and the transaction s value is determined the POS application can initiate and obtain authorization to charge or debit the account number presented by the user for the full transaction value. Alternatively the POS application can initiate and obtain authorization utilizing a third party service provider to charge or debit the account number presented by the user prior to dispensing the item s .

The POS application is generally fault tolerant. In the event of a communications failure such that the automated business system cannot authenticate or authorize a transaction the POS application can stop processing the pending transactions or may continue to process transactions without external authentication or authorization. The administrator or owner of the automated business system can determine whether the POS application can continue to process transactions or can stop processing the pending transactions. If the administrator determines that the server should continue to accept transactions without the ability for external communications once external communications are restored the POS application can obtain authorization or authentication for all transactions that occurred while external communications were not available.

The POS application can provide a high level of programming flexibility for the owner of the automated business system . For example the POS application can enable the owner to apply any type of stock keeping unit description for the items within the automated business system . In addition one field or component of the stock keeping unit description can accommodate a full motion video file. The POS application can be updated periodically to include descriptions and full motion video files of new items available in the automated business system . The POS application can be updated by inserting an item s such that the server can read the RFID tag on the item can store the information in the database and can update the inventory list and the full motion video files. The POS application can also be updated by downloading data from the remote server which can be updated with information regarding the new inventory item s added to the automated business system and full motion video files. The full motion video file then becomes part of the inventory record of the automated business system . The user can view the video file s at the display of the consumer interaction system to preview or better understand the contents of the item s selected or contemplated for selection.

The POS application can include a feature or suggestion module that can suggest a different item s to the user that may be of interest to the user based on certain attributes of the item selected by the user. In operation the suggestion module can query the database that includes attributes for each item in the automated business system . For example to provide a suggestion s the suggestion module can characterize each item e.g. media title across many attributes including but not limited to feature and supporting cast members director author producer distributor subject matter category the media title s rating the pace of dialog the tempo of the soundtrack setting volume of dialog complexity of subject matter complexity of dialog degree of violence aggression chronological sequencing age of feature cast members etc. to identify other items e.g. media titles with similar attributes. The attributes of each item are determined quantified by the owner operator of the automated business system prior to the item being inserted into the automated business system .

The suggestion module operates to compare each attribute of the selected item with each attribute of every other item in the automated business system and a degree of similarity expressed as a percentage between the selected item and every other item in the automated business system is determined quantified a suitable suggestion module is available from Savage Beast or My Best Bets . When the user selects an item e.g. a media title to review at the consumer interaction system additional items e.g. media titles that are similar in nature are suggested to the user for review. These suggested items e.g. media titles are listed in descending order based on the degree of similarity.

The POS application can enable the owner of the automated business system to determine a fee structure that is to be applied to each transaction class of transactions or all transactions and also to each user class of users or all users. The POS application can enable the owner of the automated business system to adopt a fee for transaction pricing methodology or alternatively to apply a subscription fee pricing methodology. If the subscription fee pricing methodology is applied the user pays a monthly or some other interval such as quarterly or annual fee in advance to enjoy a specified level of transaction activity or unlimited activity with the automated business system . The level of transaction activity is specified by the owner of the automated business system . The owner of the automated business system can use a simple one tier subscription approach or may adopt a more complex multiple tier subscription approach. If the fee for transaction pricing methodology is applied the user pays an amount for each transaction.

The POS application can also enable the owner of the automated business system to initiate a complex and systematic in store promotional campaign. The promotional campaign can include but is not limited to cross sell up sell and ancillary product promotions. The promotional content can be determined based on information gathered about the user during the users interaction with the automated business system . The promotion can be issued to the user in a variety of ways all of which ensure that the user can receive the promotion while the user remains in the store.

The following methods can be used to issue the promotion to the user 1 using a pop up dialog box that appears on the consumer interaction system while the user is browsing through the items available in the automated business system . The pop up window can indicate the scope of the promotion and redemption instructions 2 a printed promotion can be issued to the user during or after the user s shopping selection session. The printed promotion can be executed in such a way as to be readable and redeemable at the consumer interaction system 3 an all digital promotion can be conveyed to the user and applied to the user s virtual account provided the user assents to the promotion. In this case the value of the promotion can be associated with the user s account to be redeemed during a subsequent qualifying transaction one that satisfies the promotion s requirement or set of requirements .

The POS application can capture data for each user shopping session. This data capture can take place passively by recording each of the user s choices selections. Or the data can be captured actively by asking the user to take a brief survey or to provide an opinion on a certain matter or of a certain product etc. The POS application can analyze the data and the results can be used in the most effective manner to further the commercial goals of the owner of the automated business system . The POS application can be programmed to disassociate the user s name with the session data captured to ensure consumer privacy.

The POS application can sequence demand on the automated business system to ensure that each transaction initiated by a user is serviced in the order that it was received. For example if a plurality of users have selected one or more items the POS application can determine which request was made first and which request was made second etc. The POS application can communicate with the retrieval system the order in which to retrieve each item.

The POS application can permit the user to select up to five items and request that all items be dispensed in a single transaction. The five items can be dispensed through the five slot array port . The automated business system can also be expanded to allow the user to request additional items in a single transaction. Once the request is received by the server of the automated business system the POS application can transmit a series of commands to the retrieval system to retrieve each item requested selected. The retrieval system is unique in that it can dispense to any port location in the automated business system to accommodate the plurality of consumer interaction systems . Each port includes a five slot array that can be serviced by the retrieval system . The automated business system can read the RFID tag on the item as it is dispensed through the port to verify that the correct item is being dispensed.

The automated business system can operate similarly when the user returns up to five items in a single transaction. During the return the user can insert the item s into one of the five slots of the port and the automated business system can automatically read the RFID tag mounted on the item s and then position the item s in an internal storage position or bin.

The POS application can include a graphical user interface with which the user interacts at the consumer interaction system . The graphical user interface can be presented to the user via the display at the consumer interaction system . Because the automated business system can hold thousands of items the graphical user interface can present a variety of effective search mechanisms to the user to be able to select the desired item quickly. The graphical user interface may also present the most relevant information to the user based on an analysis of historic transaction activity allowing the user to effectively and efficiently shop for the desired item s and once an item s is selected to complete the transaction.

The graphical user interface can enable the user to complete a transaction in as few as four actions and or screen touches. For example the user can approach the automated business system and can select Movies then select a movie title then select Add To Cart then select Complete Order and the item will appear at the port . As another example the user can approach the automated business system and can select Rent then select Category then select Drama then select a title from a list of items presented and the item will appear at the port .

Upon return of the item s the user is not required to interact with the consumer interaction system in order to execute a return except to place the item s in the port . If desired the user can interact with the display to initiate and complete an item return. Upon recognizing that an item has been inserted into the port the automated business system can broadcast a question or message to the display to the corresponding consumer interaction system asking the user whether or not the user would like a receipt. If the user selects Yes a receipt can be issued as soon as the POS application has reconciled the transaction. The receipt can be printed by the printer of the corresponding consumer interaction system . If the user does not react to the query within a predetermined amount of time e.g. 20 seconds the automated business system can return the display of the consumer interaction system to idle or to a screen saver mode. The POS application can reconcile and close the transaction whether or not a receipt is printed.

The graphical user interface can support most foreign languages and transactions denominated in most currencies to ensure that the automated business system most appropriately suits the deployment location geography and user demographic composition.

The automated business system can provide a variety of efficient ways in which the inventory stored within the system can be selected. In one embodiment during a selection process the graphical user interface presents various questions and options on the display of the consumer interaction system . The graphical user interface is under control of the POS application and displays the commands in a user friendly format on the display . As illustrated in the graphical user interface can provide the user with various display screens and options. For example graphical user interface can transmit display screen A and or B to the display and ask the user for the type of transaction to be performed with the automated business system e.g. rent an item s purchase an item s or return an item s or provide a selection of the different types of media e.g. movies games music available. If the user selects the option to rent an item s or purchase an item s on display screen A in the user is provided with a variety of options to search the item database . For example the graphical user interface can transmit display screen A as illustrated in to the display . The search options can include but are not limited to search by a Title a Category an Actor New Releases and Critic s Corner.

If the user selects Movies on display screen B in the user is provided with various options to search the item database . For example the graphical user interface can transmit display screen B as illustrated in to the display . The user can search the movie titles by alphabetical order and or search movies based on actor actress as illustrated in .

For example if the user selected the Title search option the graphical user interface can transmit a display screen including letters and numbers to the display . The user is asked to select the letter or number presented on the display that corresponds with the first letter or number found in the item title. The POS application can then search the database for the titles of the item s that satisfy the selected letter s and or numerical entry and can transmit the search results e.g. all item titles that begin with the letter or number selected by the user to the graphical user interface for display on the display .

For example if the user selected the Category search option the graphical user interface can transmit a display screen including various category selections such as types of movies e.g. mystery drama comedy Oscar winners etc. to the display . The user is asked to select from the possible item categories such as types of movies e.g. mystery drama comedy etc. . The POS application can then search the database for the titles of the item s that satisfy the selected category and can transmit the search results e.g. all item titles that are associated with the selected category to the graphical user interface for display on the display .

For example if the user selected the Actor search option the graphical user interface can transmit a display screen including a gender selection option to the display . The user is asked to select Male or Female . If the user selected Female the POS application can search the database for all female actors featured in anyone of the items and can transmit the search results to the graphical user interface for display in an order e.g. alphabetical order by first name or last name on the display . If the user selected Male the POS application can search the database for all male actors featured in anyone of the items and can transmit the search results to the graphical user interface for display in an order e.g. alphabetical order by first name or last name on the display . After the user has selected an actor the POS application can search the database for the item s that include the selected actor and can transmit the search results e.g. all item titles that include the selected actor to the graphical user interface for display on the display . The graphical user interface can display the results in a particular order and or the user can sort the results. For example the results can be sorted to reveal the most recently released movie first and the oldest released movie last. The search results can be sorted in any manner selected by the user.

The actor based search may include an image of the actor s face next to his or her name. Studies have determined that often consumers can recognize a face more readily than they can remember an actor s name.

For example if the user selected the New Releases search option the POS application can search the database for new movie releases that have been introduced within a certain period of time e.g. 120 days and can transmit the search results to the graphical user interface for display on the display . The graphical user interface can display the search results in an order based on the date the item s became available at the automated business system and or when the item s were first made available to the public. The search results can be sorted in any manner selected by the user.

For example if the user selected the Critic s Corner search option the graphical user interface can transmit a display screen including a list of media critics to the display . The user is asked to select from the possible media critics. The POS application can then search the database for the item s recently recommended and or critiqued by the selected media critic and can transmit the search results to the graphical user interface for display at the display .

Once the user reaches the title level of the available item s using any of the search mechanisms described above the POS application can transmit to the graphical user interface a display screen illustrated in including a narrative description of the media title a corresponding image depicting the media packaging and a full motion preview of the entertainment media selected. The POS application can search the database for the selected motion video file e.g. motion video trailer and can transmit the motion video file to the graphical user interface for display on the display . The full motion video file can be interrupted at any time by the user or watched in its entirety. Studies have determined that consumers can achieve a more thorough understanding of the item if they are able to view a full motion video trailer about the item.

The user can reserve an item s if the particular item s is not available at the time of the visit. While the user is making a selection using any of the search mechanisms described above the POS application can determine whether the item s is available. The POS application and server can execute the user driven searches rapidly ensuring that the user realizes a near immediate response. If the item s is not available for rent or purchase the POS application can transmit a reserve selection to the graphical user interface for display on the display . The user can select the reserve option to be able to rent or purchase the item s when it becomes available. The item s can be reserved for a predetermined amount of time after it becomes available. The server can initiate an email notification to the user via the network to inform the user that the item s has become available. Additionally once a user has selected an entertainment media title and placed it in a virtual shopping cart illustrated in on display screen the unit of inventory having the selected title can be automatically quarantined by the POS application to ensure that the selected title is available to the user upon the user completing the transaction. This feature allows the automated business system to service many users simultaneously.

The display of the consumer interaction system can display or broadcast a promotional message and or scroll when the consumer interaction system is not in use. The promotion can be designed by the owner of the automated business system to introduce the automated business system and can provide incentives to new and or existing users.

The automated business system can include the retrieval system illustrated in B and according to one embodiment of the invention. The POS application on the server can communicate with the retrieval system to retrieve a particular item within the automated business system . The retrieval system can include a controller illustrated in operable to receive commands from the POS application and transmit the commands to the retrieval system . A suitable controller is the ACR9000 and can be programmed in Acrobasic. The retrieval system can support multiple simultaneous users and can service each user directly at each user station .

The retrieval system is supported by the frame . The retrieval system includes a multi axis motion control system operable to store and retrieve the requested item s . The retrieval system retrieves the item s from its stored location within the automated business system and delivers the item to the user through the port . The retrieval system accepts a returned item s and transports the item s to the nearest available storage bin or prescribed location.

Referring to B and the retrieval system includes a plurality of pairs of guide rails supported by the frame . Illustrated in more detail in the guide rails each include an axis oriented in a generally vertical direction Y axis . The pair of guide rails are laterally spaced apart generally along the length of the automated business system . One pair of guide rails supports a driven pulley assembly and a carriage assembly . The other pair of guide rails supports a passive pulley assembly . The driven pulley assembly and the passive pulley assembly each include a plurality of sprockets and a conveyor member such as a belt . The conveyor member can include a magnetic rail a chain a cable a string a rope a flexible elongated member or the like. At least one of the sprockets of the driven pulley assembly and at least one of the sprockets of the passive pulley assembly can be coupled to a link shaft that can provide a common rotation of the sprockets . The link shaft is coupled to a servo motor which drives the driven pulley assembly . The driven pulley assembly is operable to move a track such as a linear positioning table in a generally vertical direction.

The retrieval system includes a track such as a linear positioning table illustrated in B and that is supported by the carriage assemblies on each pair of guide rails . The linear positioning table includes an axis oriented in a generally horizontal direction X axis . The linear positioning table includes a driven pulley assembly which includes a plurality of sprockets a conveyor member such as a belt and a servo motor . The conveyor member can include a magnetic rail a chain a cable a string a rope a flexible elongated member or the like. The driven pulley assembly is operable to move a gripper assembly A in a generally horizontal direction.

The linear positioning table can support the gripper assembly A illustrated in . The gripper assembly A can traverse the linear positioning table and can move along the length of the automated business system in the horizontal direction. The gripper assembly A is operable to move along about 60 percent to about 100 percent of the length of the linear positioning table . In another construction the gripper assembly A can move along about 80 percent to about 95 percent of the length of the linear positioning table . In another construction the gripper assembly A can move along about 88 percent to about 92 percent of the length of the linear positioning table . The linear positioning table can include a proximity sensor that can provide encoder feedback that accurately determines the position of the gripper assembly to ensure that the gripper assembly A does not travel beyond the physical limits of the linear positioning table . The automated business system can hold more inventory and the gripper assembly A can access the inventory as a result of the unique construction of the linear positioning table .

The gripper assembly can include a gripper as illustrated in . The gripper can include a plurality of fingers operable to pivot from a first position to a second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. The fingers can pivot into the second position to engage the item and to transport the item to the port . Each finger is slotted such that when the fingers engage the item each finger makes contact with a top a bottom and a side of the item. The gripper includes a stepper motor operable to control the movement of the fingers from the first position to the second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. This arrangement of the fingers and method of gripping the item consumes less energy and more securely holds and controls the item while the item is being transported from its storage location to the port .

The gripper assembly can include a carriage such as an extend retract device as illustrated in and . The extend retract device supports the gripper . The extend retract device can include a table . The extend retract device can include a pair of guide rails supported by the table . The guide rails can support a driven pulley system . The driven pulley system can include a drive pulley a plurality of idler rollers a conveyor member such as belt and a servo motor . The conveyor member can include a magnetic rail a chain a cable a string a rope a flexible elongated member or the like. The guide rails include an axis oriented in a generally horizontal direction Z axis and in a generally perpendicular orientation with respect to the linear positioning table axis . The driven pulley system is operable to move the gripper from a first position to a second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. The driven pulley system allows the gripper to move toward and away from the front and back sides of the automated business system . The extend retract device can include a flange having an aperture .

The gripper assembly can include a rotate device as illustrated in . The rotate device includes a carriage and a driven pulley system . The carriage supports the driven pulley system . The driven pulley system includes a drive pulley a sprocket a conveyor member such as a belt and a stepper motor . The conveyor member can include a magnetic rail a chain a cable a string a rope a flexible elongated member or the like. The sprocket includes a shaft operable to receive the flange through the aperture of the extend retract system . The driven pulley system is operable to rotate the gripper clamping system at least 180 degrees in the clockwise and counter clockwise directions. The rotate system can include a deadweight counterbalance to reduce energy consumption and support the gripper assembly while at rest.

The gripper assembly can include a RFID device as illustrated in . The RFID device includes a RFD antenna and RFID reader module supported by the extend retract device . The RFID antenna and RFID reader module can be positioned beneath the guide rails of the extend retract device and can rotate with the gripper when the rotate device is activated. The RFID device is operable to read a RFID tag located within the item s e.g. the RFID tag is inside the holding case of the disc based media .

In another embodiment the retrieval system can include a gripper assembly A illustrated in . The gripper assembly A can include a gripper A. The gripper A can include a plurality of fingers A operable to move from a first position to a second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. The fingers A can move into the second position to engage the item and to transport the item to a carriage such as an extend retract device A. The gripper A includes a stepper motor A operable to control the movement of the fingers A from the first position to the second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. This arrangement of the fingers A and method of gripping the item consumes less energy and more securely holds and controls the item while the item is being transported from its storage location to the extend retract device A.

The gripper assembly A can include a carriage such as an extend retract device A as illustrated in . The extend retract device A supports the gripper A. The extend retract device A can include a table A that supports a pair of guide rails A. One of the guide rails A can support a driven pulley system A. The driven pulley system A can include a drive pulley A a plurality of idler rollers A a conveyor member such as belt A and a servo motor A. The conveyor member can include a magnetic rail a chain a cable a string a rope a flexible elongated member or the like. The guide rails A include an axis A oriented in a generally horizontal direction Z axis and in a generally perpendicular orientation with respect to the linear positioning table axis . The driven pulley system A is operable to move the gripper A from a first position to a second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. The driven pulley system A allows the gripper A to move toward and away from the front and back sides of the automated business system . The table A can support a driven pulley system A that is operable to move an item from a first position to a second position and all positions in between the first and second positions. The driven pulley system A can include a drive pulley A a plurality of idler rollers A a conveyor member such as belt A and a servo motor A. The conveyor member can include a magnetic rail a chain a cable a string a rope a flexible elongated member or the like. The extend retract device A can include a sensor A operable to detect the location of the item while positioned on the table A.

The gripper assembly A can include a RFID device A as illustrated in . The RFID device A includes a RFID antenna A and RFID reader module A supported by the extend retract device A. The table A includes an aperture A through which the RFID reader module A can read the RFID tag on the item. The RFID antenna A and RFID reader module A can be positioned beneath the guide rails A of the extend retract device A. The RFID device A is operable to read a RFID tag located within the item s e.g. the RFID tag is inside the holding case of the disc based media .

The connections between the components and assemblies in the retrieval system are not limited to the manner of assembly described. The components and assemblies can be connected to one another in a different manner and or could be connected to other components or systems.

The retrieval system includes a multi axis motion controller supported by the housing . The motion controller can communicate with the server . The movement commands of the retrieval system can be stored in a motion controller software application motion control application . The motion control application can communicate with the POS application which manages the transactional data of the automated business system . The motion control application can transmit the movement commands to move the components and assemblies of the retrieval system to retrieve and replace the items. The motion control application can also transmit additional commands to other systems or components in the automated business system .

The motion control application can transmit commands that allow the retrieval system to service any storage bin or input output position on the front and back face of the automated business system . Referring to the interior of the housing can support a plurality of storage racks which can be specifically designed to accommodate the particular items in the automated business system . For example customized slots or bins can be used to support disc based media such as CDs and DVDs. The bins can include a high friction material such as rubber resin synthetic materials etc. to better secure the disc based media. The storage racks can be supported on any of the interior surfaces of the housing . In one construction of the invention the storage racks are supported on the interior front surface and the interior rear surface of the automated business system . The storage racks include a plurality of storage columns and each storage column is comprised of hundreds of storage bins . The storage columns are placed adjacent to one another along the length of the interior front surface and the interior rear surface to maximize internal storage capacity. The storage racks can include gaps between the storage columns to accommodate the ports that service each consumer interaction system . The storage racks can have a different configuration than described and illustrated to accommodate any item to be dispensed from the automated business system .

In one embodiment of the invention the automated business system can store disc based media . Referring to each disc based media is placed in a holding case or other storage component such as a slim jewel box to protect the disc based media during transport and storage. The automated business system can accommodate the same sized disc based media e.g. CDs and DVDs or a variety of differently sized disc based media e.g. mini discs based on the size of the holding case.

The automated business system can include a discrete uninterruptible power supply UPS . In the event of a power interruption the UPS ensures that the retrieval system can conduct a controlled shut down complete all in process user transactions and return the multi axis motion control system safely to its home position.

The automated business system can include an identification and tracking system that utilizes RFID technology. The identification and tracking system includes a RFID tag attached to each item. For example the RFID tag can be attached to the CD and the DVD rather than the holding case illustrated in . The identification and tracking system also includes a tracking software application that can communicate with the RFID system A described above . The tracking software application can reside on the server illustrated in and can identify the location and status of each item. The automated business system is not limited to RFID technology but may include any wireless communication system to identify and track an item.

Referring to the identification and tracking system includes an interrogator or powered antenna and a plurality of sensors . The sensors can be positioned in each slot of the five slot array of the port . When an item is inserted into one of the slots of the port the sensor of the respective slot can sense the presence of an item. The sensor can transmit a signal to the motion control application which can transmit a command to the retrieval system to retrieve the item. The gripper assembly A can retrieve the item position the item on the table A and read the identifying information stored on the RFID tag on the item. This identifying information is then associated with a transaction stored in the database . The transaction can be the introduction of a new item or the return of an existing item. The POS application then instructs the retrieval system to store the item in a prescribed storage bin in the storage rack . If the RFID information read during this process cannot be reconciled with the database the gripper assembly A is instructed to return the unrecognized item to the same port from which the item was retrieved. In another construction the gripper assembly A may be instructed to store the unrecognized item in a prescribed storage bin for later administrative review.

The interrogator is comprised of an antenna and is an integral component of the gripper assembly A. This configuration enables the interrogator to read all items inserted into any slot of the port . This configuration also enables the automated business system to validate the identity of all items upon dispensing the inventory as a secondary assurance that the correct item is being dispensed to the user. This configuration also enables the automated business system to take a complete physical inventory at any time or programmed interval desired by the owner or system administrator. An anti collision algorithm built into the antenna software ensures that each item is only read once.

The integrated chip used on the RFID tag possesses 1 024 bytes of read write memory. Less than 200 bytes of this read write memory are consumed by the unique alphanumeric identifier recorded to the chip during its manufacture. This unique identifier cannot be overwritten. The interrogator has the capability to transmit data to the RFID tag where the data can be stored. By virtue of the RFID chip s read write memory capacity and the fact that the chip resides on the RFID tag which is mounted directly on the disc torus or other location of the item the automated business system can record the entire transaction history of each disc based media or item directly onto the disc itself pr into a storage memory component. The interrogator has the capability of reading all 1 024 bytes of information stored on the RFID chip.

The RFID tagging approach is not a line of site technology. As a result the RFID tag is readable regardless of how the holding case or item is inserted into the port .

The automated business system according to one construction of the invention utilizes a circular form factor 13.56 megahertz RFD tag that uniquely identifies each disc based media or item. The RFID tag is applied to the torus or other location of each disc based media or other location on a non disc based media item prior to being inserted into the automated business system . The RFID tag includes an integrated chip which is uniquely identified during its manufacture. Since the manufacturer of the chip adheres to international standards the disc identification is unique unto the universe of all chips of this nature.

In one embodiment of the invention an automated business system can generate disc based media on demand. For example the user can request rental and or purchase of a particular movie music or game title and the automated business system can generate a new DVD or CD by writing a movie file a music file or a game title to the DVD or CD respectively. For example if the user requests rental and or purchase of particular movie music or game title and the particular movie or music title is not available at that time the automated business system can automatically generate the movie music title or game title by writing a movie file a music file or a game file to a DVD or CD respectively.

The automated business system illustrated in according to one embodiment of the invention can include a plurality of blank discs and holding cases for the blank discs in addition to the components and systems described above for the automated business system . The database can include a plurality of movie files a plurality of music files and a plurality of game files . The movie files the music files and the game files can be stored in the database in a compressed format e.g. MPEG 2 format or any other advanced MPEG format or in an uncompressed format. The automated business system can include a disc based media writer operable to write or record the movie files the music files and the game files onto a blank disc . The automated business system can include a MPEG 2 encoder or any other advanced MPEG format or other compressible format encoder operable to compress the movie files the music files and the game files if stored in the database in an uncompressed format prior to being transmitted to the disc based media writer .

Referring to if the user selected Return on display screen A at act the graphical user interface can instruct at the user to insert the disc based media in the port . The interrogator can read at the RFID tag on the item to identify the disc based media. The interrogator can transmit at the identification information to the tracking software application to associate the return with the rental transaction. The tracking software application can transmit at the information to the POS application . The POS application can determine at if the correct disc based media item is being returned. If the correct disc based media was inserted in the port the POS application can transmit at a completion type of message to the graphical user interface to display on the display . The graphical user interface can display at an option of whether the user would like a receipt. If the user selects Yes the POS application can transmit at a command to the printer to print a receipt.

If the incorrect disc based media is inserted in the port the POS application can transmit at an error type of message and a Help option to the graphical user interface to display on the display . At this point the user can retrieve the disc based media from the port and verify that the correct disc is being returned and can reinsert the disc based media in the port . Acts are repeated as necessary. The user can select the Help option on the display for assistance.

Referring to if the correct disc based media is inserted in the port the POS application can transmit at a command to the motion control application which can instruct the retrieval system to retrieve the disc based media from the port . The linear positioning table of the retrieval system can move at along the guide rails in the vertical direction Y axis to the location of the port where the returned disc based media is located. Next the gripper assembly A can move at along the linear positioning table in the horizontal direction X axis to the location of the port where the returned disc based media is located. The gripper A can move at along Z axis the guide rails A of the extend retract device A to get closer to the disc based media. The fingers A of the gripper A can engage at the disc based media and the gripper A can retract at along the guide rails A. The POS application can instruct at the motion control application to position the disc based media in a particular bin of the storage rack . The POS application can store at the location of the disc based media in the database . The user can be charged for the rental of the item at any time after the selection has been made and or upon return of the item.

If the incorrect disc based media is inserted in the port the POS application can transmit at an error type of message and a Help option to the graphical user interface to display on the display . At this point the user can retrieve the disc based media from the port and verify that the correct disc is being returned and can reinsert the disc based media in the port . Acts are repeated as necessary. The user can select the Help option on the display for assistance.

In one embodiment of a method of the invention the automated business system can handle the return of a plurality of disc based media items in a single transaction. The user can insert the disc based media items at relatively the same time in the separate slots of the port . The interrogator within each slot of the port can read the RFID tag on each disc based media item. The automated business system in this embodiment can perform acts in the same or similar manner as described above when handling a plurality of returned disc based media items in the same transaction. Alternatively the sensor in each slot can detect the presence of the disc based media and the gripper assembly A can retrieve each disc based media to read the RFID tag on each disc based media. The automated business system can perform acts in the same or similar manner as described above.

In one embodiment of the invention the automated business system can dispense a plurality of disc based media items in the same transaction. The user can make a plurality of selections in the same transaction the retrieval system can retrieve each selection and dispense each selection individually. The automated business system in this embodiment can perform acts in the same or similar manner as described above when dispensing a plurality of disc based media items in the same transaction. Alternatively the user can make a plurality of selections in the same transaction the retrieval system can retrieve each selection and place each selection in one of the slots in the port at a holding position where the user cannot access the selections. When the last selection is positioned in one of the slots the retrieval system can push all of the selections into the port .

In one embodiment of the invention the automated business system can store items other than disc based media that are desirable to be rented or purchased. In one embodiment of the invention the automated business system can dispense health and beauty aids e.g. over the counter medications cosmetics toiletries etc. . The automated business system can be modified accordingly. For example the storage racks can be modified to accommodate the various sizes of health and beauty products. Users of the automated business system can answer various questions to receive a recommendation for a product s . In the retail environment users generally have to read labels to determine which product s to purchase. Rather than having to read all of the product labels the POS application can generate questions and based on the answers the POS application can recommend a product s to the user. The POS application can be modified to generate various questions related to the users need for certain products and the graphical user interface can be modified to display the various questions. For example the POS application can generate questions that relate to symptoms age most likely time that the product will be used etc. and the POS application can recommend a certain product that satisfies all or most of the answers provided by the user. Each product can include a RFID tag and the automated business system can operate in the same or similar manner as described above.

