---

title: Systems and methods for user profile data delivery
abstract: Systems and methods for delivery of user profile data are disclosed. An exemplary method includes detecting a request for a full copy of a user profile data package maintained by a user profile data source subsystem, creating an illusion that the request has been fulfilled, and copying on demand a portion of the user profile data package from the source subsystem to a target location for access by a data consuming subsystem. In certain embodiments, the method further includes utilizing the copied portion of the user profile data package for execution of a computing operation, without fully copying the user profile data package from the source subsystem. In certain embodiments, the portion of the user profile data package is streamed from the source subsystem to the target location over a network connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032556&OS=08032556&RS=08032556
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08032556
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080307
---
Many computer operating systems are configured to support multiple recognized users. In such systems a unique user profile including user profile data is typically created and maintained for each user. User profile data may include system files display preferences and images e.g. display settings screen colors screen background images icons desktop shortcuts permissions settings application data user specific registry keys network and printer connection settings hardware e.g. keyboard and mouse settings and any user files e.g. photos audio files text documents etc. included in a user s profile directory. It is not uncommon for a user profile to be quite large and require significant computing resources to store and copy.

When a user logs on to such an operating system a conventional copy process is called and executed to copy the user profile data associated with the user s profile from where it is maintained to one or more target locations e.g. a local computing device cache or other data store to make the user profile data available to the operating system applications running on the operating system and or the user. Traditionally the operating system applications running on the operating system and or the user are forced to wait for the copy process to fully copy all of the user profile data associated with a user profile before certain computing operations can be performed. For example a desktop view associated with the user profile will not be displayed until the copy process has finished copying all of the user profile data in a user profile and signaled that the copying is completed. Unfortunately fully copying the user profile data can lead to slow and significantly delayed user logon experiences especially when the user profile includes a large amount of user profile data and or when copying the user profile data includes transmission over a network connection.

When the user logs off of the operating system the previously copied user profile data and any changes to the copied user profile data are copied in the reverse direction in order to propagate any updates made to the copied user profile data to the stored user profile data. Again the conventional copy process will fully copy all of the user profile data before other computing operations can be performed. This can cause slow and delayed user logoff experiences especially when the user profile includes a large amount of user profile data.

The disclosure is directed to user profile data delivery. The examples disclosed herein may be implemented in numerous ways including as one or more processes apparatuses systems devices methods computer readable media or computer program products embodied on computer readable media. Exemplary systems subsystems apparatuses computer program products embodied on computer readable media and methods for user profile data delivery are described herein.

As used herein the term user profile data or user profile data package may refer broadly to a set of computer readable data specific to a particular user profile. User profile data may include system files display preferences and images e.g. display settings screen colors screen background images icons desktop shortcuts permissions settings application data user specific registry keys network and printer connection settings hardware e.g. keyboard and mouse settings and any user files e.g. photos audio files text documents etc. included in a user s profile directory.

In certain embodiments user profile data e.g. at least one user profile data package may be maintained by a user profile data source subsystem. Portions of a user profile data package may be copied on demand i.e. on an as needed basis from the source subsystem to one or more target locations for access by a data consuming subsystem which may be configured to utilize the copied portions of user profile data for execution of one or more computing operations. In certain embodiments copying a portion of a user profile data package on demand may include streaming data representing the portion of the user profile data package from the source subsystem to a target location accessible to the data consuming subsystem.

On demand copying of portions of a user profile data package may be used to eliminate or at least reduce instances of having to fully copy the user profile data package before being able to perform certain computing operations including user logon operations for instance. By utilizing selective on demand copying of portions of a user profile data package one or more computing operations dependent on data in a user profile data package may be performed without the user profile data package being copied in full. For example when a user logs on to an operating system of a computing device a portion of the user s user profile data package may be copied on demand to a target location accessible to the operating system. One or more logon operations e.g. displaying the user s desktop dependent on the copied portion of the user profile data may be performed without the operating system having to wait for the entire user profile data package to be copied before performing the logon operation s . Accordingly user logon operations may be performed quickly and efficiently even when a user profile data package is very large in size.

One or more other portions of the user s user profile data package may be similarly copied on demand as needed for other computing operations. For example a user may attempt to open a particular file included in the user s profile data package. A file access request associated with the attempt may be detected and the file requested and copied on demand for use in fulfilling the operation.

Turning now to the figures illustrates an exemplary system for user profile data delivery. As shown system may include a user profile data source subsystem a data consuming subsystem and an agent subsystem .

Each of the subsystems may include or be implemented on any computer hardware or as instructions e.g. software programs embodied on computer readable media or combinations of instructions and hardware configured to perform the processes described herein. In particular it should be understood that system may include or be implemented on any of a number of well known computing devices and may employ any of a number of well known computer operating systems including but by no means limited to known versions and or varieties of Microsoft Windows UNIX Macintosh and Linux operating system software. Accordingly the processes described herein may be implemented at least in part as instructions e.g. one or more computer program products embodied on one or more computer readable media and executable by one or more computing devices. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions e.g. from a memory a computer readable medium etc. and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions may be stored and transmitted using a variety of known computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Transmission media may include for example coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to a processor of the computer. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radiofrequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Subsystems and may be configured to communicate with one another using any suitable communication technologies including suitable network communication technologies devices signals interfaces and protocols capable of supporting the processes and communications described herein. As shown in the user profile data source subsystem may be communicatively coupled to the agent subsystem by way of a connection and the data consuming subsystem may be communicatively coupled to the agent subsystem by way of a connection . Connection and or connection may include any suitable data transmission media and or interfaces configured to connect two or more electronic devices and or computing processes including any well known or other suitable data transmission media and or interfaces.

In implementation user profile data source subsystem may include or be implemented on at least one server which may be communicatively coupled to one or more computing devices through N collectively computing devices by way of one or more network connections . Network connection may include but is not limited to a local area network LAN connection a wide area network WAN connection a wireless network connection a virtual private network connection an intranet connection an Internet connection any other suitable network connection or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As shown in data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem may be implemented within a computing device . shows data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem implemented on computing device data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem implemented on computing device and data consuming subsystem N and agent subsystem N implemented on computing device N.

Data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem may be communicatively coupled to one another in any suitable way including by having access to a common computer readable medium. For example data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem may have shared access to a target location of a computer readable medium e.g. a local data store . shows target locations and N within computing devices and N respectively. Accordingly agent subsystem may direct that user profile data be copied on demand from server and stored to target location for access by data consuming subsystem as described below.

When implemented as shown in system may be configured for selective on demand copying of one or more portions of user profile data over connection from the user profile data source subsystem to one or more target locations through N for access and use by the respective data consuming subsystems and N. User profile data source subsystem may be configured to receive requests from computing devices for portions of user profile data and to provide data representative of copies of the portions of user profile data in response to the requests.

User profile data source subsystem may be configured to store user profile data e.g. one or more user profile data packages for one or more user profiles such as user profiles associated with users and or potential users of computing devices . In certain embodiments implementation may be configured to support roaming user profiles to allow users to log on and have access to their respective user profiles using different computing devices .

As shown in the user profile data source subsystem may include a data store configured to electronically store user profile data. Data store may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of storage media. For example the data store may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM other non volatile and or volatile storage unit or a combination or sub combination thereof.

In the example shown in data store includes a plurality of user profile data packages through J collectively user profile data packages each of which may be associated with a particular user profile. Each of the user profile data packages includes or can be divided into discrete portions of user profile data. In certain embodiments for example a user profile data package includes a plurality of electronic files and or groupings of files associated with a particular user profile.

As shown in user profile data source subsystem may further include a processing and control facility communicatively coupled to the data store . Processing and control facility may be configured to perform one or more operations for processing user profile data including storing user profile data to the data store and modifying partitioning deleting accessing searching and retrieving user profile data stored in the data store . Processing and control facility may be configured to access particular portions of user profile data and operate on the portions independently of other user profile data stored in the data store .

In certain embodiments processing and control facility may be configured to create representations of data included in a user profile data package . For example processing and control facility may identify information related to user profile data and utilize the information to create shell data for a user profile data package . Shell data may include any information descriptive of user profile data including directory and file information for example. The shell data typically includes such file and directory information but omits the actual contents of the files. As described further below agent subsystem may be configured to utilize the shell data for operations associated with on demand portion by portion copying of user profile data.

User profile data source subsystem may further include a communication module communicatively coupled to the processing and control facility and configured to communicate with agent subsystem . The communication module may include any communication hardware and or software that may suit a particular application including but not limited to modulators demodulators wireless communication devices network modems optical communication devices network cable jacks ports and the like. It will be understood that any suitable modulation scheme and or communication protocol may be employed in conjunction with the communication module for transmitting and receiving data to from the agent subsystem as may suit a particular application. In implementation communication module may be configured to communicate with computing devices over network connection .

The user profile data source subsystem may be configured to receive a request for one or more portions of a user profile data package from the agent subsystem . The request may be received through the communication module and processed by the processing and control facility . In response to the request the processing and control facility may identify one or more portions of a user profile data package based on the request retrieve the identified portion s of user profile data from the data store and initiate transmission of a copy of the retrieved portion s of user profile data to the agent subsystem . The communication module may transmit one or more signals carrying the copied portion s of the user profile data package to the agent subsystem by way of connection .

In certain embodiments the copying of a portion of a user profile data package from the user profile data source subsystem to the agent subsystem may include streaming the portion of the profile data package . Any suitable streaming technologies may be employed to stream portions of a user profile data package . Streaming technologies can be utilized to enable the data consuming subsystem to perform one or more computing operations dependent on the portion data without having to wait to receive a full copy of a user profile data package associated with a user profile. Other suitable ways of copying portions of user profile data on demand may be utilized in other embodiments.

By providing a portion of a user profile data package in response to a request from agent subsystem the user profile data source subsystem may be said to selectively provide or copy the portion of the user profile data package on demand. Accordingly user profile data can be provided e.g. streamed and utilized for computing operations portion by portion without having to wait for a full copy of a user profile data package associated with a user profile to be copied.

Data consuming subsystem may be configured to utilize one or more copied portions of user profile data to execute or at least initiate execution of one or more computing operations dependent on the copied portion s . Data consuming subsystem may include or be implemented on one or more computing devices such as computing device and may be configured to utilize profile data for execution of one or more computing operations on the computing device . Data consuming subsystem may include any computing operation operating system application e.g. computer software program or other instructions embodied on a computer readable medium process function call or data access request that is dependent on user profile data. In certain examples data consuming subsystem may include one or more user logon operations e.g. user profile desktop rendering and display operations associated with logging a user on to an operating system running on a computing device .

Agent subsystem may include or be implemented on one or more computing devices such as computing device and may be configured to control on demand copying of portions of user profile data. illustrates an exemplary computing device environment including data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem implemented within a computing device . The implementation shown in is illustrative only. Other implementations and components may be employed in other embodiments.

As shown in computing device may include a communication module processor and memory unit communicatively connected to one another by a connection . Connection may include and or employ any suitable communication technologies e.g. a bus for communicatively connecting the communication module processor and memory unit .

Communication module may be configured to communicate with the user profile data source subsystem and may include any communication hardware and or software for such communications including but not limited to modulators demodulators wireless communication devices network modems optical communication devices network cable jacks ports and the like. It will be understood that any suitable modulation scheme and or communication protocol may be employed in conjunction with the communication module for transmitting and receiving data to from the user profile data source subsystem as may suit a particular application. For example communication module may be configured to transmit requests from the computing device to the user profile data source subsystem and to receive transmissions including copies of portions of user profile data from the user profile data source subsystem . In implementation communication module may be configured to communicate with user profile data source subsystem over network connection .

Processor may be configured to perform any of the computing device operations described herein including operations initiated and or directed by data consuming subsystem and or agent subsystem .

Memory unit may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of storage media. For example memory unit may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM other non volatile and or volatile storage unit or a combination or sub combination thereof.

As shown in memory unit may include data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem which may comprise in certain embodiments computing instructions embodied in memory unit . Memory unit may further include a target location to which copied user profile data received from the user profile data source subsystem may be stored for access by data consuming subsystem .

As mentioned agent subsystem may be configured to control on demand copying of portions of user profile data from the user profile data source subsystem to target location for access by the data consuming subsystem . In certain embodiments agent subsystem may be configured to detect and intercept requests for user profile data maintained by the user profile data source subsystem . As an example data consuming subsystem may include a standard operating system user profile data copy process e.g. a Windows operating system copy process configured to control copying of user profile data including controlling copying of user profile data for user logon and logoff events. A user associated with a user profile may attempt to log on to an operating system of computing device . The operating system may recognize the logon attempt and call and pass processing control to the copy process for copying a user profile data package associated with the user profile from the user profile data source subsystem . Conventionally such a copy process requests and copies the entire user profile data package in full before relinquishing control to other computing operations. Accordingly performance of certain computing operations is delayed until the user profile data package is copied in full and the copy process relinquishes control. For instance when the user attempts to log on the desktop view associated with the corresponding user profile may not be displayed until after the user profile data package is fully copied from the user profile data source subsystem to target location . This delay can be significant when the user profile data package includes a large amount of data.

Agent subsystem may be configured to detect and intercept a request from the data consuming subsystem for a copy of a user profile data package . For instance where the data consuming subsystem includes an operating system copy process and the copy process has initiated a request for a copy of a user profile data package from the user profile data source subsystem e.g. as part of user logon operations as described above agent subsystem may detect and intercept the request.

Agent subsystem may be configured to detect the request in any suitable way including detecting predetermined events processes and function calls such as a logon request or the operating system initiating the copy process. In certain embodiments at least part of the agent subsystem may be implemented at an OS kernel level. For example a filter driver configured to detect certain events e.g. requests for user profile data may be implemented at the OS kernel level and used to monitor for and detect the events.

Agent subsystem may be configured to intercept the request to stop it from being received by the user profile data source subsystem . The request may be intercepted in any suitable way including blocking its transmission. Accordingly data consuming subsystem does not establish direct communication with the user profile data source subsystem and the user profile data source subsystem does not receive a request from the data consuming subsystem for a full copy of a user profile data package .

In response to detecting a request for a user profile data package agent subsystem may create an illusion that the requested user profile data package has been fully copied from the user profile data source subsystem to target location and is available for utilization by the data consuming subsystem . As one example of creating such as illusion agent subsystem may provide a message to the data consuming subsystem e.g. to an operating system copy process deceptively indicating that the entire user profile data package has been fully copied and is available for use. In certain embodiments the deceptive indication may be provided in the form of an application programming interface API falsely confirming that the user profile data package has been fully copied. The deceptive indication may be in any suitable form for spoofing the data consuming subsystem such that the data consuming subsystem functions as if the full copy process is complete e.g. indicating that there is no user profile data to be copied .

In certain embodiments agent subsystem may be configured to request and receive shell data for the user profile data package. As mentioned above shell data may refer to information about the user profile data package including but not limited to file and directory information e.g. dummy files . Shell data may be received from the user profile data source subsystem and stored to target location such that from the perspective of the data consuming subsystem it is as if the entire contents of the user profile data package have been copied to the target location . Accordingly shell data may be used in creating the illusion that the user profile data package has been fully copied. Agent subsystem may be configured to request the shell data from the user profile data source subsystem which may be configured to provide a copy of the shell data without providing the associated content as described above.

The illusion may facilitate the copy process relinquishing processing control and the data consuming subsystem may continue processing computing operations and or initiate new computing operations as if the user profile data package had been successfully copied in full. In this or other suitable manner the agent subsystem may spoof the copy process into functioning as if the entire user profile data package has been fully copied without the entire user profile data package actually having been copied. Accordingly computing operations such as user logon operations can be performed without having to wait for the user profile data package to be copied in its entirety.

As computing operations are initiated and executed data consuming subsystem may provide one or more access requests for copied user profile data upon which the computing operations depend. Agent subsystem may be configured to detect such access requests for copied user profile data and fetch the requested portions of user profile data on demand from the user profile data source subsystem . As an example after an illusion is created that a user profile data package has been fully copied to target location data consuming subsystem may initiate or continue executing a particular computing operation e.g. a user logon operation such as rendering a user desktop view and or requesting a particular user profile data file that is dependent on a portion e.g. a particular file of the user profile data package . The computing operation may generate an access request for the portion of the user profile data package . Agent subsystem may detect and intercept the access request. The detection may be accomplished in any suitable manner. For example agent subsystem may be configured to detect requests for certain data and or data associated with certain locations e.g. target location and or processes. In certain embodiments agent subsystem may create a record descriptive of shell data received from the user profile data source subsystem and utilize the record to detect access requests for shell data content.

In response to detecting an access request for a portion of a user profile data package agent subsystem may fetch a copy of the requested portion of the user profile data package from the user profile data source subsystem . The user profile data source subsystem may provide e.g. stream a copy of the requested portion as described above and the agent subsystem may store the copy of the requested portion to the target location which copy may be used to fulfill the access request thereby allowing execution of the computing operation to continue without the entire user profile data package being copied from the user profile data source subsystem . Agent subsystem may be configured to assume processing control and or communicate with the data consuming subsystem to provide sufficient time to fetch and store a copy of the portion of the user profile data package such that the copied portion of the user profile data package can be used to fulfill the access request.

As a specific example related to a user logon request agent subsystem may create an illusion as described above. Data consuming subsystem may suppose that the entire user profile data package has been copied and is now accessible at target location . Data consuming subsystem may continue performing user logon operations which may include accessing one or more files e.g. icon images for inclusion in a display of a user profile desktop view. To this end data consuming subsystem may generate an access request for a first user profile data file. Agent subsystem may intercept the access request fetch the requested file from the user profile data source subsystem and store the copied file to target location for use in fulfilling the access request. Data consuming subsystem may generate another access request for a second user profile data file. Agent subsystem may intercept the access request fetch the requested second file from the user profile data source subsystem and store the copied second file to target location for use in fulfilling the access request. In this or similar manner agent subsystem may control selective on demand portion be portion copying of user profile data from the user profile data source subsystem to fulfill access requests generated by data consuming subsystem . Data consuming subsystem may be configured to access and utilize the copied portions of the user profile data package at target location for execution of one or more computing operations.

Agent subsystem and or user profile data source subsystem may be configured to predictively prioritize the copying order e.g. the streaming order of portions of a user profile data package . The predictive prioritization may be based on a record of user profile data usage. For example agent subsystem may be configured to track and record access requests generated by the data consuming subsystem for portions of the user profile data package . The record may be used to identify user data profile usage patterns which may be used to predict future access requests.

As an example when a user attempts to logon to an operating subsystem running on computing device the operating system may detect the user logon request and data consuming subsystem may request a full copy of a user profile data package . Agent subsystem may function as described above to detect the request create an illusion that the user profile data package has been fully copied to target location and copy on demand one or more portions of the user profile data package to target location . Agent subsystem may track the activity associated with the access requests and or on demand copying and utilize a record of the activity to predict future access requests. For instance when the user attempts to log on to the operating system again in the future agent subsystem may utilize the record of previous user profile data usage to predict forthcoming access requests. Accordingly when agent subsystem receives an access request for and provides a copy of portion to target location on demand agent subsystem may predict based on previous user profile data usage that the next access request will likely be for portion . Agent subsystem may be configured to preemptively fetch portion in anticipation of data consuming subsystem generating an access request for portion .

Agent subsystem may be configured to concurrently fetch multiple portions of user profile data and to prioritize the order e.g. the streaming order in which the portions are copied. The prioritization may be based on a record of precious user profile data usage as described above. Predictive prioritization may help minimize delay times associated with waiting for portions of user profile data to be copied on demand.

In other embodiments user profile data source subsystem may be configured to predictively prioritize copying order for portions of the user profile data package . For example user profile data source subsystem may be configured to track and record operations associated with providing portions of the user profile data package to agent subsystem . Alternatively agent subsystem may generate a record as describe above and provide the record to the user profile data source subsystem . The record may be used to identify user data profile usage patterns which may be used to predict future access requests.

In certain embodiments agent subsystem may be configured to facilitate copying of one or more portions of the user profile data package to the target location in the background as other computing operations are being executed by the data consuming subsystem . For example agent subsystem may be configured to utilize available resources e.g. network resources to stream portions of user profile data package in the background. Accordingly these portions may be copied to target location and accessible to data consuming subsystem in advance of being requested by the data consuming subsystem . Copying portions of user profile data in the background allows for copying without delaying the performance of computing operations dependent on user profile data. Agent subsystem may be configured to prioritize on demand requests for portions of user profile data over background copying of user profile data.

Agent subsystem may be configured to maintain a record of copied portions of a user profile data package and to utilize the record to determine in response to an access request whether to allow the access request to go through when the requested portion is already stored at target location or to first fetch the requested portion from the user profile data source subsystem before allowing the access request to go through.

Agent subsystem may be configured to support portion by portion copying of user profile data for user logoff operations. When a user logs off of an operating system running on computing device data consuming subsystem may perform one of more logoff operations including initiating copying of a copied user profile data package from target location to the user profile data source subsystem for storage. Accordingly any modifications to the copied user profile data package may be propagated to the user profile data source subsystem and included in the stored user profile data package at the user profile data source subsystem . Agent subsystem may be configured to detect and intercept such a reverse copy request from the data consuming subsystem to copy the user profile data package from the target location to the user profile data source subsystem . The detection and interception may include interfacing with an operating system copy process as described above. Agent subsystem may create an illusion that the user profile data package has been fully copied from the target location . This may be performed in any of the ways described above including agent subsystem providing a deceptive indication to the data consuming subsystem indicating that reverse copy request has been fulfilled i.e. the user profile data package has been fully copied .

Agent subsystem may be configured to identify any modifications that have been made to the copied user profile data package and to copy only the modified portion s from the target location to the user profile data source subsystem . This can significantly minimize a delay that would otherwise occur if the entire user profile data package were copied to the user profile data source subsystem .

As described above reverse copying of one or more portions of user profile data from the target location to the user profile data source subsystem may be performed in response to a reverse copy request in relation to a user logoff request. Additionally or alternatively agent subsystem may detect a modification to the copied user profile data package and copy only the modified portion of the user profile data package from the target location to the user profile data source subsystem when predefined resources are available. Predefined resources may include predetermined network bandwidth availability free processing cycles and or any other measure of computing resources. The predefined resources including threshold levels for the resources may be defined in advance and detected and utilized by agent subsystem to selectively reverse copy user profile data modifications from target location to the user profile data source subsystem .

While the above examples have been described in reference to certain exemplary implementations of system other implementations of system may be employed according to the principles described herein. For example while illustrates an implementation including user profile data source subsystem configured to communication with computing devices over a network connection system may be implemented in other ways including locally within a computing device . illustrates an exemplary local implementation of system including user profile data source subsystem data consuming subsystem and agent subsystem implemented on a computing device .

The implementation shown in may support local on demand copying of portions of user profile data. For example illustrates computing device as including the user profile data source subsystem storing a user profile data package . A user of computing device may attempt to generate a new user profile and data consuming subsystem may consequently generate a request to copy the existing user profile data package e.g. a default user profile directory as a template for a new user profile data package . Agent subsystem may detect and intercept the request create an illusion that a full copy of the user profile data package has been made as user profile data package at target location and copy on demand one or more portions of the user profile data package to the new user profile data package at target location . Accordingly one or more portions of a user profile data package may be copied locally on demand and computing operations dependent on the copied portions can be performed without the entire contents of the user profile data package being fully copied to the new user profile data package . Additionally or alternatively portions of the user profile data package may be copied to the new user profile data package in the background.

In certain embodiments agent subsystem may be configured to operate transparently to the data consuming subsystem . For example agent subsystem may be configured to intercept requests from the data consuming subsystem create illusions that requests have been or are being fulfilled fetch user profile data allow intercepted requests to go through when the corresponding data has been fetched and perform any other on demand user profile data copying operations without the data consuming subsystem being aware of the agent subsystem or its operations. Accordingly in certain embodiments agent subsystem may comprise an aftermarket addition configured to interface with data consuming subsystem in a transparent manner.

In step a request for a full copy of a user profile data package is detected. Step may be performed in any of the ways described above including agent subsystem detecting a request from data consuming subsystem for a full copy of a user profile data package maintained by the user profile data source subsystem . As described above such a request may be generated in response to a user logon attempt.

In step an illusion is created that the requested has been fulfilled. Step may be performed in any of the ways described above including agent subsystem providing a deceptive indication to the data consuming subsystem indicating that a full copy of the user profile data package has been received i.e. that copying is complete or there is no further user profile data to be copied. In certain embodiments step may include copying shell data for the user profile data package to a target location .

In step a portion of the user profile data package is copied on demand. Step may be performed in any of the ways described above including agent subsystem intercepting an access request for the portion of the user profile data package fetching a copy of the requested portion of the user profile data package from the user profile data source subsystem and providing the copied portion to fulfill the access request e.g. by storing the copied portion to a target location .

In step the copied portion of the user profile data package is utilized for execution of a computing operation. Step may be performed in any of the ways described above including the computing operation using the copied portion stored at the target location . In certain embodiments step is performed without the entire contents of the user profile data package being copied to the target location .

In step another portion of the user profile data package is copied on demand. Step may be performed in any of the ways described above including agent subsystem intercepting an access request for the other portion of the user profile data package fetching a copy of the requested other portion of the user profile data package from the user profile data source subsystem and providing the copied other portion to fulfill the access request e.g. by storing the copied other portion to a target location .

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe exemplary embodiments and implementations with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional implementations may be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The above description and accompanying drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

