---

title: Compositions and methods for treating neoplastic diseases
abstract: Disclosed herein are compositions and methods for treating neoplastic diseases. Included are compositions and methods that are effective against multiple myeloma cells resistant to conventional and bortezomib treatment. Furthermore, combination treatment with two different proteosome inhibitors is shown to be synergistic for treating multiple myeloma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08722724&OS=08722724&RS=08722724
owner: Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Inc.
number: 08722724
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080730
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 293 354 filed Dec. 2 2005 now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 633 161 filed Dec. 3 2004 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The work described herein was partially funded by NIH grants 50947 CA 78373 SPORE P50 CA100707 01 and P01 CA078378 06 and the U.S. government may have certain rights with regard to the present invention.

The present invention relates to the fields of chemistry and medicine. More particularly the present invention relates to the treatment of neoplastic diseases such as cancer.

Cancer is a leading cause of death in the United States. Despite significant efforts to find new approaches for treating cancer the primary treatment options remain surgery chemotherapy and radiation therapy either alone or in combination. Surgery and radiation therapy however are generally useful only for fairly defined types of cancer and are of limited use for treating patients with disseminated disease. Chemotherapy is the method that is generally useful in treating patients with metastatic cancer or diffuse cancers such as leukemias. Although chemotherapy can provide a therapeutic benefit it often fails to result in cure of the disease due to the patient s cancer cells becoming resistant to the chemotherapeutic agent.

Therefore a need exists for additional chemotherapeutics to treat cancer. A continuing effort is being made by individual investigators academia and companies to identify new potentially useful chemotherapeutic and anti microbial agents.

The successful development of Bortezomib PS 341 therapy for treatment of relapsed refractory multiple myeloma MM has established proteasome inhibition as an effective therapeutic strategy. The dipeptide boronic acid analogue Bortezomib is a potent highly selective and reversible proteasome inhibitor which targets the 26S proteasome complex and inhibits its function. The 26S proteasome is an adenosine triphosphate ATP dependent multicatalytic protease mediating intracellular protein degradation. Proteasomal degradation of misfolded or damaged proteins proceeds by recognition of polyubiquitinated proteins by the 19S regulatory subunit of the 26S protease and subsequent hydrolysis to small polypeptides. Bortezomib primarily inhibits chymotryptic without altering tryptic or caspase like proteasome activity. Besides inhibiting NF kB Bortezomib has pleiotropic effects on MM biology by targeting 1 cell cycle regulatory proteins 2 UPR pathway via modulating transcriptional activity of plasma cell differentiation factor X box binding protein 1 XBP 1 3 p53 mediated apoptosis MDM2 4 DNA repair mechanisms 5 classical stress response pathways via both intrinsic caspase 9 mediated and extrinsic caspase 8 mediated cell death cascades. Specifically Bortezomib activates JNK which triggers mitochondrial apoptotic signaling release of cytochrome c cyto c and second mitochondrial activator of caspases Smac from mitochondria to cytosol followed by activation of caspase 9 and caspase 3. However both intrinsic and acquired resistance has already been observed and there are no therapies to overcome Bortezomib resistance at present.

One aspect of the present invention is a method of treating a neoplastic disease comprising administering to a patient inflicted with the neoplastic disease a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof 

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of treating a neoplastic disease comprising administering to a patient inflicted with the neoplastic disease a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof wherein X is selected from the group consisting of fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine in combination with at least one additional chemotherapeutic agent.

Another aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof wherein X is selected from the group consisting of fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine and at least one additional chemotherapeutic agent.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of treating a neoplastic disease comprising administering to a patient inflicted with the neoplastic disease a synergistic combination of at least two proteosome inhibitors.

In some embodiments prodrugs metabolites stereoisomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds disclosed herein are provided for use as described herein.

A prodrug refers to an agent that is converted into the parent drug in vivo. Prodrugs are often useful because in some situations they may be easier to administer than the parent drug. They may for instance be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the parent is not. The prodrug may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the parent drug. An example without limitation of a prodrug would be a compound which is administered as an ester the prodrug to facilitate transmittal across a cell membrane where water solubility is detrimental to mobility but which then is metabolically hydrolyzed to the carboxylic acid the active entity once inside the cell where water solubility is beneficial. A further example of a prodrug might be a short peptide polyaminoacid bonded to an acid group where the peptide is metabolized to reveal the active moiety. Conventional procedures for the selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are described for example in ed. H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The term pro drug ester refers to derivatives of the compounds disclosed herein formed by the addition of any of several ester forming groups that are hydrolyzed under physiological conditions. Examples of pro drug ester groups include pivoyloxymethyl acetoxymethyl phthalidyl indanyl and methoxymethyl as well as other such groups known in the art including a 5 R 2 oxo 1 3 dioxolen 4 yl methyl group. Other examples of pro drug ester groups can be found in for example T. Higuchi and V. Stella in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 A.C.S. Symposium Series American Chemical Society 1975 and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Theory and Application edited by E. B. Roche Pergamon Press New York 14 21 1987 providing examples of esters useful as prodrugs for compounds containing carboxyl groups . Each of the above mentioned references is herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Metabolites of the compounds disclosed herein include active species that are produced upon introduction of the compounds into the biological milieu.

Where the compounds disclosed herein have at least one chiral center they may exist as a racemate or as enantiomers. It should be noted that all such isomers and mixtures thereof are included in the scope of the present invention. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms for the compounds of disclosed herein may exist as polymorphs. Such polymorphs are included in one embodiment of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the present invention may form solvates with water i.e. hydrates or common organic solvents. Such solvates are included in one embodiment of the present invention.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt of a compound that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is administered and does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound. In some embodiments the salt is an acid addition salt of the compound. Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by reacting a compound with inorganic acids such as hydrohalic acid e.g. hydrochloric acid or hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like. Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained by reacting a compound with an organic acid such as aliphatic or aromatic carboxylic or sulfonic acids for example acetic succinic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic nicotinic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic p toluenesulfonic salicylic or naphthalenesulfonic acid. Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained by reacting a compound with a base to form a salt such as an ammonium salt an alkali metal salt such as a sodium or a potassium salt an alkaline earth metal salt such as a calcium or a magnesium salt a salt of organic bases such as dicyclohexylamine N methyl D glucamine tris hydroxymethyl methylamine C Calkylamine cyclohexylamine triethanolamine ethylenediamine and salts with amino acids such as arginine lysine and the like.

If the manufacture of pharmaceutical formulations involves intimate mixing of the pharmaceutical excipients and the active ingredient in its salt form then it may be desirable to use pharmaceutical excipients which are non basic that is either acidic or neutral excipients.

In various embodiments the compounds disclosed herein can be used alone in combination with other compounds disclosed herein or in combination with one or more other agents active in the therapeutic areas described herein.

The term halogen atom as used herein means any one of the radio stable atoms of column 7 of the Periodic Table of the Elements e.g. fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine with fluorine and chlorine being preferred.

The term ester refers to a chemical moiety with formula R COOR where R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl bonded through a ring carbon and heteroalicyclic bonded through a ring carbon and where n is 0 or 1.

An amide is a chemical moiety with formula R C O NHR or R NHC O R where R and R are independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl cycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl bonded through a ring carbon and heteroalicyclic bonded through a ring carbon and where n is 0 or 1. An amide may be an amino acid or a peptide molecule attached to a molecule of the present invention thereby forming a prodrug.

Any amine hydroxy or carboxyl side chain on the compounds of the present invention can be esterified or amidified. The procedures and specific groups to be used to achieve this end are known to those of skill in the art and can readily be found in reference sources such as Greene and Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Ed. John Wiley Sons New York N.Y. 1999 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The terms purified substantially purified and isolated as used herein refer to compounds disclosed herein being free of other dissimilar compounds with which the compounds of the invention are normally associated in their natural state so that the compounds of the invention comprise at least 0.5 1 5 10 or 20 and most preferably at least 50 or 75 of the mass by weight of a given sample.

As demonstrated by the examples presented herein the compound of formula I inhibits chymotrypsin like trypsin like and caspase like proteasome activities. In contrast Bortezomib has been shown to inhibit only chymotrypsin like proteasome activity. See Goldberg A. L. Rock K. 2002 8 338 40 and Adams J. 2004 4 349 60 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. It is further demonstrated that compounds of formula I have a different mechanism of action than bortezomib. Furthermore the compound of formula I induces apoptosis in various multiple myeloma cell lines including but not limited to Dexamethasone sensitive MM.1S Dexamethasone resistant MM.1R RPMI 8226 OPM2 U266 and Doxorubicin resistant Dox 40. The compound of formula I also induced apoptosis in cell lines obtained from human multiple myeloma patients that had relapsed after multiple prior therapies with Dexamethasone Bortezomib and thalidomide. Thus the compound of formula I is effective against MM cells that are resistant to other chemotherapeutic agents including Dexamethasone Doxorubicin Bortezomib PS 341 and thalidomide.

Accordingly in one embodiment a method of treating a neoplastic disease that is susceptible to resistance to at least one chemotherapeutic agent is provided comprising administering to a patient such as a human a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug ester thereof. By resistance to at least one chemotherapeutic agent it is meant that administration of the chemotherapeutic agent to the patient does not result in significant amelioration of symptoms of the neoplastic disease. In some embodiments where the neoplastic disease is a characterized by a tumor resistance to at least one chemotherapeutic agent means that administration of the chemotherapeutic agent does not result in appreciable inhibition of the growth of the tumor or reduction in the size of the tumor. Resistance to at least one chemotherapeutic agent can also mean that when the agent is exposed to resistant tumor cells no appreciable apoptosis is induced. By susceptible to resistance to at least one chemotherapeutic agent it is meant that the neoplastic disease currently is resistant to the at least one chemotherapeutic agent or will develop resistance upon repeated administration of the chemotherapeutic agent.

The examples herein also demonstrate that compounds of formula I when combined with bortezomib trigger synergistic apoptosis in MM cells. Thus a compound of formula I may be administered in combination with Bortezomib PS 341 to achieve apoptosis using lower doses of each agent than if the agents were administered separately thus reducing the toxicity of the agents. Surprisingly these results demonstrate that a synergistic result may be obtained by administering two different proteasome inhibitors. By synergistic it is meant that the combination of two or more agents yield a combination index CI 

Accordingly in one embodiment a method is provided for treating a neoplastic disease comprising administering two or more proteasome inhibitors in synergistic combination. Non limiting examples of classes of proteasome inhibitors that may be combined include peptide boronate proteasome inhibitors peptide aldehyde proteasome inhibitors and non peptide proteasome inhibitors. A non limiting example of a peptide boronate proteasome inhibitor is bortezomib. A non limiting example of a peptide aldehyde proteasome inhibitor is MG 132. Non limiting examples of non peptide proteasome inhibitors include omuralide and the compound of formula I . In one embodiment at least one of the proteasome inhibitors is a compound of formula I or bortezomib. By administration in combination it is meant that the two or more agents may be found in the patient s bloodstream at the same time regardless of when or how they are actually administered. In one embodiment the agents are administered simultaneously. In one such embodiment administration in combination is accomplished by combining the agents in a single dosage form. In another embodiment the agents are administered sequentially. In one embodiment the agents are administered through the same route such as orally. In another embodiment the agents are administered through different routes such as one being administered orally and another being administered i.v. In one advantageous embodiment the pharmacokinetics of the two or more agents are substantially the same.

In one embodiment a method is provided for treating a neoplastic disease comprising administering a compound of formula I in combination with another chemotherapeutic agent. In one embodiment the other chemotherapeutic agent is dexamethasone doxorubicin or thalidomide. In one embodiment the other chemotherapeutic agent is another proteasome inhibitor such as bortezomib. In one embodiment a pharmaceutical composition is provided that combines a compound of formula I with the additional chemotherapeutic agent.

In some embodiments the neoplastic disease treated by any of the methods above may be a cancer selected from breast cancer sarcoma leukemia ovarian cancer uretal cancer bladder cancer prostate cancer colon cancer rectal cancer stomach cancer lung cancer lymphoma multiple myeloma pancreatic cancer liver cancer kidney cancer endocrine cancer skin cancer melanoma angioma and brain or central nervous system CNS cancer. In one embodiment the neoplastic disease is a multiple myeloma.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising physiologically acceptable surface active agents carriers diluents excipients smoothing agents suspension agents film forming substances and coating assistants or a combination thereof and a compound or combination disclosed herein. Acceptable carriers or diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art and are described for example in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Preservatives stabilizers dyes sweeteners fragrances flavoring agents and the like may be provided in the pharmaceutical composition. For example sodium benzoate ascorbic acid and esters of p hydroxybenzoic acid may be added as preservatives. In addition antioxidants and suspending agents may be used. In various embodiments alcohols esters sulfated aliphatic alcohols and the like may be used as surface active agents sucrose glucose lactose starch crystallized cellulose mannitol light anhydrous silicate magnesium aluminate magnesium methasilicate aluminate synthetic aluminum silicate calcium carbonate sodium acid carbonate calcium hydrogen phosphate calcium carboxymethyl cellulose and the like may be used as excipients magnesium stearate talc hardened oil and the like may be used as smoothing agents coconut oil olive oil sesame oil peanut oil soya may be used as suspension agents or lubricants cellulose acetate phthalate as a derivative of a carbohydrate such as cellulose or sugar or methylacetate methacrylate copolymer as a derivative of polyvinyl may be used as suspension agents and plasticizers such as ester phthalates and the like may be used as suspension agents.

The term pharmaceutical composition refers to a mixture of a compound or combination of compounds disclosed herein with other chemical components such as diluents or carriers. The pharmaceutical composition facilitates administration of the compound to an organism. Multiple techniques of administering a compound exist in the art including but not limited to oral injection aerosol parenteral and topical administration. Pharmaceutical compositions can also be obtained by reacting compounds with inorganic or organic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid and the like.

The term carrier defines a chemical compound that facilitates the incorporation of a compound into cells or tissues. For example dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO is a commonly utilized carrier as it facilitates the uptake of many organic compounds into the cells or tissues of an organism.

The term diluent defines chemical compounds diluted in water that will dissolve the compound of interest as well as stabilize the biologically active form of the compound. Salts dissolved in buffered solutions are utilized as diluents in the art. One commonly used buffered solution is phosphate buffered saline because it mimics the salt conditions of human blood. Since buffer salts can control the pH of a solution at low concentrations a buffered diluent rarely modifies the biological activity of a compound.

The term physiologically acceptable defines a carrier or diluent that does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound.

The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be administered to a human patient per se or in pharmaceutical compositions where they are mixed with suitable carriers or excipient s . Techniques for formulation and administration of the compounds of the instant application may be found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 18th edition 1990.

Suitable routes of administration may for example include oral rectal transmucosal topical or intestinal administration parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous intravenous intramedullary injections as well as intrathecal direct intraventricular intraperitoneal intranasal or intraocular injections. The compounds can also be administered in sustained or controlled release dosage forms including depot injections osmotic pumps pills transdermal including electrotransport patches and the like for prolonged and or timed pulsed administration at a predetermined rate.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be manufactured in a manner that is itself known e.g. by means of conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making levigating emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or tabletting processes.

Pharmaceutical compositions for use in accordance with the present invention thus may be formulated in conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries which facilitate processing of the active compounds into preparations which can be used pharmaceutically. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. Any of the well known techniques carriers and excipients may be used as suitable and as understood in the art e.g. in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences above.

Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms either as liquid solutions or suspensions solid forms suitable for solution or suspension in liquid prior to injection or as emulsions. Suitable excipients are for example water saline dextrose mannitol lactose lecithin albumin sodium glutamate cysteine hydrochloride and the like. In addition if desired the injectable pharmaceutical compositions may contain minor amounts of nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents pH buffering agents and the like. Physiologically compatible buffers include but are not limited to Hanks s solution Ringer s solution or physiological saline buffer. If desired absorption enhancing preparations for example liposomes may be utilized.

For transmucosal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated may be used in the formulation.

Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion include aqueous solutions of the active compounds in water soluble form. Additionally suspensions of the active compounds may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils such as sesame oil or other organic oils such as soybean grapefruit or almond oils or synthetic fatty acid esters such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sorbitol or dextran. Optionally the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents that increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient may be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

For oral administration the compounds can be formulated readily by combining the active compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by combining the active compounds with solid excipient optionally grinding a resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients are in particular fillers such as sugars including lactose sucrose mannitol or sorbitol cellulose preparations such as for example maize starch wheat starch rice starch potato starch gelatin gum tragacanth methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and or polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . If desired disintegrating agents may be added such as the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate. Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions may be used which may optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound doses. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions may be used which may optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound doses.

Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as lactose binders such as starches and or lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active compounds may be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers may be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions may take the form of tablets or lozenges formulated in conventional manner.

For administration by inhalation the compounds for use according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

Further disclosed herein are various pharmaceutical compositions well known in the pharmaceutical art for uses that include intraocular intranasal and intraauricular delivery. Suitable penetrants for these uses are generally known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions for intraocular delivery include aqueous ophthalmic solutions of the active compounds in water soluble form such as eyedrops or in gellan gum Shedden et al. 23 3 440 50 2001 or hydrogels Mayer et al. 210 2 101 3 1996 ophthalmic ointments ophthalmic suspensions such as microparticulates drug containing small polymeric particles that are suspended in a liquid carrier medium Joshi A. 10 1 29 45 1994 lipid soluble formulations Alm et al. 312 447 58 1989 and microspheres Mordenti 52 1 101 6 1999 and ocular inserts. All of the above mentioned references are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Such suitable pharmaceutical formulations are most often and preferably formulated to be sterile isotonic and buffered for stability and comfort. Pharmaceutical compositions for intranasal delivery may also include drops and sprays often prepared to simulate in many respects nasal secretions to ensure maintenance of normal ciliary action. As disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and well known to those skilled in the art suitable formulations are most often and preferably isotonic slightly buffered to maintain a pH of 5.5 to 6.5 and most often and preferably include antimicrobial preservatives and appropriate drug stabilizers. Pharmaceutical formulations for intraauricular delivery include suspensions and ointments for topical application in the ear. Common solvents for such aural formulations include glycerin and water.

The compounds may also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

In addition to the formulations described previously the compounds may also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations may be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example the compounds may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

For hydrophobic compounds a suitable pharmaceutical carrier may be a cosolvent system comprising benzyl alcohol a nonpolar surfactant a water miscible organic polymer and an aqueous phase. A common cosolvent system used is the VPD co solvent system which is a solution of 3 w v benzyl alcohol 8 w v of the nonpolar surfactant Polysorbate 80 and 65 w v polyethylene glycol 300 made up to volume in absolute ethanol. Naturally the proportions of a co solvent system may be varied considerably without destroying its solubility and toxicity characteristics. Furthermore the identity of the co solvent components may be varied for example other low toxicity nonpolar surfactants may be used instead of POLYSORBATE 80 the fraction size of polyethylene glycol may be varied other biocompatible polymers may replace polyethylene glycol e.g. polyvinyl pyrrolidone and other sugars or polysaccharides may substitute for dextrose.

Alternatively other delivery systems for hydrophobic pharmaceutical compounds may be employed. Liposomes and emulsions are well known examples of delivery vehicles or carriers for hydrophobic drugs. Certain organic solvents such as dimethylsulfoxide also may be employed although usually at the cost of greater toxicity. Additionally the compounds may be delivered using a sustained release system such as semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the therapeutic agent. Various sustained release materials have been established and are well known by those skilled in the art. Sustained release capsules may depending on their chemical nature release the compounds for a few weeks up to over 100 days. Depending on the chemical nature and the biological stability of the therapeutic reagent additional strategies for protein stabilization may be employed.

Agents intended to be administered intracellularly may be administered using techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example such agents may be encapsulated into liposomes. All molecules present in an aqueous solution at the time of liposome formation are incorporated into the aqueous interior. The liposomal contents are both protected from the external micro environment and because liposomes fuse with cell membranes are efficiently delivered into the cell cytoplasm. The liposome may be coated with a tissue specific antibody. The liposomes will be targeted to and taken up selectively by the desired organ. Alternatively small hydrophobic organic molecules may be directly administered intracellularly.

Additional therapeutic or diagnostic agents may be incorporated into the pharmaceutical compositions. Alternatively or additionally pharmaceutical compositions may be combined with other compositions that contain other therapeutic or diagnostic agents.

The compounds or pharmaceutical compositions may be administered to the patient by any suitable means. Non limiting examples of methods of administration include among others a administration though oral pathways which administration includes administration in capsule tablet granule spray syrup or other such forms b administration through non oral pathways such as rectal vaginal intraurethral intraocular intranasal or intraauricular which administration includes administration as an aqueous suspension an oily preparation or the like or as a drip spray suppository salve ointment or the like c administration via injection subcutaneously intraperitoneally intravenously intramuscularly intradermally intraorbitally intracapsularly intraspinally intrasternally or the like including infusion pump delivery d administration locally such as by injection directly in the renal or cardiac area e.g. by depot implantation as well as e administration topically as deemed appropriate by those of skill in the art for bringing the compound of the invention into contact with living tissue.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration include compositions where the active ingredients are contained in an amount effective to achieve its intended purpose. The therapeutically effective amount of the compounds disclosed herein required as a dose will depend on the route of administration the type of animal including human being treated and the physical characteristics of the specific animal under consideration. The dose can be tailored to achieve a desired effect but will depend on such factors as weight diet concurrent medication and other factors which those skilled in the medical arts will recognize. More specifically a therapeutically effective amount means an amount of compound effective to prevent alleviate or ameliorate symptoms of disease or prolong the survival of the subject being treated. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.

As will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art the useful in vivo dosage to be administered and the particular mode of administration will vary depending upon the age weight and mammalian species treated the particular compounds employed and the specific use for which these compounds are employed. The determination of effective dosage levels that is the dosage levels necessary to achieve the desired result can be accomplished by one skilled in the art using routine pharmacological methods. Typically human clinical applications of products are commenced at lower dosage levels with dosage level being increased until the desired effect is achieved. Alternatively acceptable in vitro studies can be used to establish useful doses and routes of administration of the compositions identified by the present methods using established pharmacological methods.

In non human animal studies applications of potential products are commenced at higher dosage levels with dosage being decreased until the desired effect is no longer achieved or adverse side effects disappear. The dosage may range broadly depending upon the desired affects and the therapeutic indication. Typically dosages may be between about 10 microgram kg and 100 mg kg body weight preferably between about 100 microgram kg and 10 mg kg body weight. Alternatively dosages may be based and calculated upon the surface area of the patient as understood by those of skill in the art.

The exact formulation route of administration and dosage for the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be chosen by the individual physician in view of the patient s condition. See e.g. Fingl et al. 1975 in The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety with particular reference to Ch. 1 p. 1 . Typically the dose range of the composition administered to the patient can be from about 0.5 to 1000 mg kg of the patient s body weight. The dosage may be a single one or a series of two or more given in the course of one or more days as is needed by the patient. In instances where human dosages for compounds have been established for at least some condition the present invention will use those same dosages or dosages that are between about 0.1 and 500 more preferably between about 25 and 250 of the established human dosage. Where no human dosage is established as will be the case for newly discovered pharmaceutical compounds a suitable human dosage can be inferred from EDor IDvalues or other appropriate values derived from in vitro or in vivo studies as qualified by toxicity studies and efficacy studies in animals.

It should be noted that the attending physician would know how to and when to terminate interrupt or adjust administration due to toxicity or organ dysfunctions. Conversely the attending physician would also know to adjust treatment to higher levels if the clinical response were not adequate precluding toxicity . The magnitude of an administrated dose in the management of the disorder of interest will vary with the severity of the condition to be treated and to the route of administration. The severity of the condition may for example be evaluated in part by standard prognostic evaluation methods. Further the dose and perhaps dose frequency will also vary according to the age body weight and response of the individual patient. A program comparable to that discussed above may be used in veterinary medicine.

Although the exact dosage will be determined on a drug by drug basis in most cases some generalizations regarding the dosage can be made. The daily dosage regimen for an adult human patient may be for example an oral dose of between 0.1 mg and 2000 mg of each active ingredient preferably between 1 mg and 500 mg e.g. 5 to 200 mg. In other embodiments an intravenous subcutaneous or intramuscular dose of each active ingredient of between 0.01 mg and 100 mg preferably between 0.1 mg and 60 mg e.g. 1 to 40 mg is used. In cases of administration of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt dosages may be calculated as the free base. In some embodiments the composition is administered 1 to 4 times per day. Alternatively the compositions of the invention may be administered by continuous intravenous infusion preferably at a dose of each active ingredient up to 1000 mg per day. As will be understood by those of skill in the art in certain situations it may be necessary to administer the compounds disclosed herein in amounts that exceed or even far exceed the above stated preferred dosage range in order to effectively and aggressively treat particularly aggressive diseases or infections. In some embodiments the compounds will be administered for a period of continuous therapy for example for a week or more or for months or years.

Dosage amount and interval may be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the active moiety which are sufficient to maintain the modulating effects or minimal effective concentration MEC . The MEC will vary for each compound but can be estimated from in vitro data. Dosages necessary to achieve the MEC will depend on individual characteristics and route of administration. However HPLC assays or bioassays can be used to determine plasma concentrations.

Dosage intervals can also be determined using MEC value. Compositions should be administered using a regimen which maintains plasma levels above the MEC for 10 90 of the time preferably between 30 90 and most preferably between 50 90 .

In cases of local administration or selective uptake the effective local concentration of the drug may not be related to plasma concentration.

The amount of composition administered will of course be dependent on the subject being treated on the subject s weight the severity of the affliction the manner of administration and the judgment of the prescribing physician.

Compounds disclosed herein can be evaluated for efficacy and toxicity using known methods. For example the toxicology of a particular compound or of a subset of the compounds sharing certain chemical moieties may be established by determining in vitro toxicity towards a cell line such as a mammalian and preferably human cell line. The results of such studies are often predictive of toxicity in animals such as mammals or more specifically humans. Alternatively the toxicity of particular compounds in an animal model such as mice rats rabbits or monkeys may be determined using known methods. The efficacy of a particular compound may be established using several recognized methods such as in vitro methods animal models or human clinical trials. Recognized in vitro models exist for nearly every class of condition including but not limited to cancer cardiovascular disease and various immune dysfunction. Similarly acceptable animal models may be used to establish efficacy of chemicals to treat such conditions. When selecting a model to determine efficacy the skilled artisan can be guided by the state of the art to choose an appropriate model dose and route of administration and regime. Of course human clinical trials can also be used to determine the efficacy of a compound in humans.

The compositions may if desired be presented in a pack or dispenser device which may contain one or more unit dosage forms containing the active ingredient. The pack may for example comprise metal or plastic foil such as a blister pack. The pack or dispenser device may be accompanied by instructions for administration. The pack or dispenser may also be accompanied with a notice associated with the container in form prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture use or sale of pharmaceuticals which notice is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of the drug for human or veterinary administration. Such notice for example may be the labeling approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for prescription drugs or the approved product insert. Compositions comprising a compound of the invention formulated in a compatible pharmaceutical carrier may also be prepared placed in an appropriate container and labeled for treatment of an indicated condition.

Dex sensitive MM.1S and Dex resistant MM.1R human MM cell lines were obtained from Dr. Steven Rosen Northwestern University Chicago Ill. . See Moalli P. A. Pillay S. Weiner D. Leikin R. Rosen S. T. 1992 Blood 79 213 22 and Chauhan D. Catley L. Hideshima T. Li G. Leblanc R. Gupta D. Sattler M. Richardson P. Schlossman R. L. Podar K. Weller E. Munshi N. Anderson K. C. 2002 Blood 100 2187 94 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. RPMI 8226 and Doxorubicin Dox resistant Dox 40 cells were obtained from Dr. William Dalton Moffit Cancer Center Tampa Fla. . U266 and OPM2 MM cell lines were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. . The human tumor cell lines DU 145 HT 29 Jurkat LoVo MDA MB 231 MIA PaCa 2 NCI H292 OVCAR 3 PANC 1 and PC 3 were purchased from ATCC Manassas Va. . MM Cell lines were grown in RPMI 1640 media supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum FBS 100 units ml penicillin 100 g ml streptomycin and 2 mM L glutamine. MM cells were freshly isolated from patients relapsing after multiple prior therapies including Dexamethasone Dex melphalan thalidomide or Bortezomib. MM cells were purified from patient bone marrow samples by CD138 positive selection method using CD138 Syndecan 1 Micro Beads and the Auto MACS magnetic cell sorter Miltenyi Biotec Inc. Auburn Calif. . See Chauhan D. Catley L. Hideshima T. Li G. Leblanc R. Gupta D. Sattler M. Richardson P. Schlossman R. L. Podar K. Weller E. Munshi N. Anderson K. C. 2002 Blood 100 2187 94 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Normal human skin fibroblasts CCD 27sk were obtained from ATCC and grown in DMEM supplemented with 10 heat inactivated FBS 100 units ml penicillin 100 g ml streptomycin 4 mM L glutamine and 1 mM sodium pyruvate. Cells were treated with various concentrations of the compound of formula II X Cl Nereus Pharmaceuticals Inc San Diego Calif. Bortezomib or Dex Sigma Chemical Co St. Louis Mo. .

Cell viability was assessed by 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide MTT Chemicon International Inc. Temecula Calif. assay according to manufacturer s instructions Roche Molecular Biochemicals Indianapolis Ind. and as described in Chauhan D. Catley L. Hideshima T. Li G. Leblanc R. Gupta D. Sattler M. Richardson P. Schlossman R. L. Podar K. Weller E. Munshi N. Anderson K. C. 2002 Blood 100 2187 94 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Cell Death Detection ELISAplus was utilized to quantitate cell death as per manufacturer s instructions Roche Applied Sciences Indianapolis Ind. .

The chymotrypsin like activity of the 20S proteasome was measured as described in Stein R. L. Melandri F. Dick L. 1996 Biochemistry 35 3899 908 and Lightcap E. S. McCormack T. A. Pien C. S. Chau V. Adams J. Elliott P. J. 2000 Clin Chem 46 673 83 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Purified human erythrocyte derived 20S proteasome were obtained from Biomol Plymouth Meeting Pa. The chymotrypsin like caspase like and trypsin like activity activities of the 20S proteasome were determined using Suc LLVY AMC Z LLE AMC Boston Biochem Cambridge Mass. and Boc LRR AMC Bachem Bioscience King of Prussia Pa. as peptide substrates respectively. Fluorescence of the cleaved peptide substrate was measured using a Fluoroskan Ascent 96 well microplate reader Thermo Electron Waltham Mass. . The ECvalues were calculated by Prism GraphPad Software using a sigmoidal dose response variable slope model. The ECvalues were defined as the drug concentration at which 50 of the maximal relative fluorescence is inhibited. The results plotted in indicated that the compound of formula II X Cl inhibits all three proteasome activities albeit at different concentrations.

To directly determine whether the compound of formula II X Cl inhibits proteasome activity in vivo the compound of formula II X Cl was dissolved in 100 DMSO and serially diluted with 5 Solutol Solutol HS 15 polyethylene glycol 660 12 hydroxystearate BASF Shreveport La. yielding a final concentration of 2 DMSO. The vehicle control consisted of 2 DMSO and 98 5 Solutol HS15 . Male Swiss Webster mice five per group 20 25 grams in weight were treated at Bolder BioPATH Inc. Boulder Colo. with various concentrations of the compound either intravenously or orally at a volume of 10 mL kg. One group of animals was untreated to establish a baseline of proteasome activity. Ninety minutes after administration of the compound the animals were anesthetized and blood withdrawn by cardiac puncture. Packed whole blood cells were collected by centrifugation washed with PBS and frozen on dry ice for determination of ex vivo proteasome activity. Chymotrypsin like activity of the 20S proteasome in white blood cell WBC lysates was determined using the peptide substrate suc LLVY AMC. Relative Fluorescence Units RFU were normalized using the protein concentrations of the cell lysates. The 20S proteasome activity of the individual mice is shown in with the horizontal bar representing the average activity. Baseline represents the 20S proteasome activity observed in WBC lysates prepared from untreated mice. The results depicted in indicate that the compound of formula II X Cl inhibits chymotrypsin like activity of 20S proteasomes in white blood cells in a dose dependent manner. Importantly these findings establish that the compound is orally active and inhibits proteasome activity in vivo.

Determination of whether the compound of formula II X Cl affects the proteasome activity in multiple myeloma cells in vitro was made using a competition experiment with AdaYIahxLVS. In this assay sites that are not targeted by the compound of formula II X Cl are labeled by AdaY I AhxLVS and visualized by autoradiography while sites that are targeted by the compound of formula II X Cl can not be seen on the autoradiogram. MM.1S MM cells were incubated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM for 30 mins 1 h 3 h or 6 h and cell lysis was performed with glass beads. 60 g of protein extracts was incubated for 2 h with the iodinated proteasome inhibitor AdaYIahxLVS at 37 C. Proteins were then denatured by boiling in reducing sample buffer and separated on a 12.5 SDS PAGE gel followed by autoradiography. As can be seen in the beta 5 5 subunit of the proteasome is markedly less labeled by AdaY I AhxLVS in treated cells than control cells. Given that the 5 subunit mediates the chymotrypsin like activity these results suggest that the compound of formula II X Cl binds to the 5 subunit thereby inhibiting the chymotrypsin like activity in MM.1S cells. Moreover treatment of MM.1S cells with the compound 7 nM for 6 h also decreased the labeling of the 2 subunits tryptic activity and the 1 subunits caspase like activity data not shown .

In vivo determination of proteasome activity was conducted using a competition experiment with Dansyl AhxLVS which covalently modifies all active proteasome subunits. This inhibitor contains a dansyl sulfonamide hexanoyl hapten that can be visualized by immunoblotting using antibodies against the dansyl moiety. MM.1S cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM for 30 mins 1 h or 3 h followed by 1 h incubation with 5 M Dansyl AhxLVS at 37 C. Cells were lysed by incubating them for 30 mins in NP 40 lysis buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 150 mM NaCl 1 NP 40 followed by 5 min. centrifugation to remove membrane fractions nuclei and cell debris. 60 g of protein extract was separated by 12.5 SDS PAGE gel followed by Immunoblot analysis using polyclonal anti dansyl polyclonal Ab 1 7500 rabbit Molecular Probes and horseradish peroxidase coupled goat anti rabbit secondary antibody Southern Biotech . Blots were developed by enhanced chemiluminescence Western Lightning Perkin Elmer . As can be seen in treatment of MM.1S cells with the compound of formula II X Cl decreases the dansylAhxLVS labeling of the 5 subunits. Furthermore the compound also decreased the dansylAhxLVS labeling of the 1 and 2 subunits albeit at higher concentrations 1 nM and 20 nM respectively. In contrast treatment of MM.1S cells with even higher doses of Bortezomib does not inhibit the 2 subunits data not shown . Taken together these findings demonstrate the ability of the compound of formula II X Cl to inhibit all three proteasome activities in MM cells.

Cell viability was assessed by 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide MTT Chemicon International Inc. Temecula Calif. assay according to manufacturer s instructions Roche Molecular Biochemicals Indianapolis Ind. and as described in Chauhan D. Catley L. Hideshima T. Li G. Leblanc R. Gupta D. Sattler M. Richardson P. Schlossman R. L. Podar K. Weller E. Munshi N. Anderson K. C. 2002 Blood 100 2187 94 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Cell viability after treatment of MM.1S Dex resistant MM.1R RPMI 8226 Doxorubicin resistant Dox 40 OPM2 and U266 cells with the compound of formula II X Cl for 24 h is illustrated in . Results are mean S.D from three independent experiments P

Cell viability was also assessed on purified patient MM cells. Freshly isolated tumor cells from nine MM patients relapsing after multiple prior therapies including Dex Bortezomib and thalidomide were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 10 nM for 24 h and analyzed for apoptosis. As seen in significant apoptosis was observed in these cells as measured by DNA fragmentation assays P

MM cells predominantly localize in the bone marrow microenvironment and their interaction with BMSCs induces production of cytokines which mediate growth of MM cells as well as protect against drug induced apoptosis. See Anderson K. C. 2003 97 796 801 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Therefore the effect of the compound of formula II X Cl on five patient MM derived BMSCs was determined. As seen in treatment of BMSCs Patient 1 5 with the compound of formula II X Cl 20 nM for 24 h does not induce apoptosis in these cells as evidenced by DNA fragmentation assay. Positive control shown is an internal control for the assay. Purified MM cells CD138 from two of the five MM patient were also examined within the same experiments. Results are mean SD from triplicate samples. The compound triggered a significant 10 12 fold increase in apoptosis of purified CD138 positive patient MM cells. These results suggest that the compound of formula II X Cl acts directly on MM cells but not BMSCs.

Adhesion of MM cells to BMSCs induces IL 6 and IGF I secretion from BMSCs which not only regulates the growth of MM cells but also protects against chemotherapy. See Hardin J. MacLeod S. Grigorieva I. Chang R. Barlogie B. Xiao H. Epstein J. 1994 84 3063 70 and Chauhan D. Kharbanda S. Ogata A. Urashima M. Teoh G. Robertson M. Kufe D. W. Anderson K. C. 1997 89 227 234 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Thus whether rhIL 6 or rhIGF I inhibits apoptosis in MM cells induced by the compound of Formula II X Cl was evaluated. MM.1S cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM or Dex 0.5 M for 24 h in the presence and absence of rhIL 6 10 ng ml or rhIGF 50 ng ml . At 24 h cells were harvested and viability analyzed by MTT assays. As seen in the median cell viability was 47 2.3 after treatment with the compound alone 51.2 3.2 with the compound rhIL 6 P 0.26 Wilcoxon test and 50.3 2.0 with the compound rhIGF I P 0.28 . Median viability was 51 2.1 after treatment with Dex and 92 5.5 for Dex rhIL 6 P 0.05 as determined by one sided Wilcoxon rank sum test . Results are mean SD of three independent experiments. These findings suggest that neither IL 6 nor IGF I block the anti MM activity of the compound of formula II X Cl . In contrast and as in other studies both IL 6 and IGF I block Dex induced decreased MM.1S cell viability. See Chauhan D. Hideshima T. Anderson K. C. 2003 78 114 20 and Mitsiades C. S. Mitsiades N. Poulaki V. Schlossman R. Akiyama M. Chauhan D. Hideshima T. Treon S. P. Munshi N. C. Richardson P. G. Anderson K. C. 2002 21 5673 83 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Thus the data suggests that the compound of formula II X Cl overcomes the growth and protective effects of IL 6 and IGF I on MM cells and indicate distinct mechanisms of action for the compound and Dex against MM cells. Reports that high serum levels of IL 6 contribute to clinical chemoresistance and treatment failure coupled with the ability of the compound of formula II X Cl to induce MM cell apoptosis even in the presence of IL 6 or IGF I suggest that the compound may overcome drug resistance in patients with advanced MM. See Kyrstsonis M. C. Dedoussis G. Baxevanis C. Stamatelou M. Maniatis A. 1996 92 420 422 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

VEGF is elevated in the bone marrow microenvironment and triggers migration growth and angiogenesis in MM cells. See Podar K. Tai Y. T. Lin B. K. Narsimhan R. P. Sattler M. Kijima T. Salgia R. Gupta D. Chauhan D. Anderson K. C. 2002 277 7875 81 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Thus whether the compound of formula II X Cl alters VEGF induced migration of MM cells was evaluated. VEGF induced migration was examined in the presence or absence of the compound 7 or 10 nM . Cell migration was assayed as described previously in Podar K. Tai Y. T. Davies F. E. Lentzsch S. Sattler M. Hideshima T. Lin B. K. Gupta D. Shima Y. Chauhan D. Mitsiades C. Raje N. Richardson P. Anderson K. C. 2001 98 428 35 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As shown in the compound of formula II X Cl significantly P

Bcl2 confers resistance to conventional therapies in cancer cells including MM. See Cory S. Adams J. M. 2002 2 647 56 and Gazitt Y. Fey V. Thomas C. Alvarez R. 1998 13 397 405 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Bcl2 can modestly attenuate Bortezomib induced apoptosis. Thus whether ectopic expression of Bcl2 in MM.1S cells affects responsiveness to the compound of formula II X Cl was evaluated. MM.1S cells were stably transfected with Bcl2 construct and analyzed for alterations in cell viability using an MTT assay. As seen in the compound of formula II X Cl significantly decreases cell viability of Bcl2 transfected MM.1S cells P

Six week old triple immune deficient beige nude xid BNX mice were obtained from Frederick Cancer Research and Development Center Frederick Md. . All animal studies were conducted according to protocols approved by the Animal Ethics Committee of the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. Mice were observed daily for signs of toxicity. Terminal bleeding was done under anesthesia using isoflourane inhalation and animals were sacrificed by COasphyxiation. To determine the in vivo anti MM activity of the compound of formula II X Cl 21 BNX mice were inoculated subcutaneously in the flank with 3 10RPMI 8226 MM cells in 100 l of RPMI 1640 media. When tumors became measurable mice were assigned to treatment groups receiving the compound of formula II X Cl 0.25 mg kg n 7 0.5 mg kg n 7 or to control groups n 7 receiving the vehicle only. Drug treatment was started after the development of measurable tumor. The drug 0.25 mg kg or 0.5 mg kg was given orally twice a week. Serial caliper measurements of perpendicular diameters were done every other day to calculate tumor volume using the following formula 4 24 shortest diameter 2 longest diameter . Animals were sacrificed if the tumor was 2 cm or necrotic. For tumor growth studies 7 mice were used in each group.

As seen in treatment of tumor bearing mice with the compound of formula II X Cl but not with vehicle alone significantly inhibits MM tumor growth and prolongs survival of these mice. All mice in the control group developed progressive tumors whereas complete regression of tumors were observed in 70 of treated mice. The mouse on the upper panel of received oral doses of vehicle alone whereas the mouse on the lower panel received the compound of formula II X Cl 0.25 mg kg . The left panels in are enlargements of subcutaneous plasmacytomas growing on the right flanks of the mice. Survival was evaluated from the first day of treatment until death mice were sacrificed when their tumor diameters reached 2 cm or they became moribund . Moreover no neurological behavioral changes were observed even after 12 weeks of treatment. The concentrations of the compound administered were well tolerated by mice without evidence of weight loss. Mice in both untreated and treated group were weighed every week. The average changes in the mice body weight are shown in .

Analysis at day 300 showed no recurrence of tumor in 57 of the compound of formula II X Cl treated mice . In addition histologic analysis performed on the inoculation sites confirmed the disappearance of plasma cells in the compound of formula II X Cl versus vehicle treated mice left and right panels respectively . These data show that the compound is orally active inhibits MM tumor growth in vivo and prolongs survival.

To compare the in vivo activity of the compound of formula II and Bortezomib the mice models as described above were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 0.15 mg kg i.v. or Bortezomib 1.0 mg kg i.v. twice weekly. Both agents significantly reduced the tumor progression p

Mitochondria play a critical role in apoptosis induction during stress. See Bossy Wetzel E. Green D. R. 1999 434 243 51 and Chauhan D. Anderson K. C. 2003 8 337 43 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Serum starved MM.1S cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM for 12 h and incubated with CMXRos for the last 20 min stained with lipophilic cationic dye CMXRos Mitotracker Red Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. in phosphate buffered saline PBS for 20 mins at 37 C. and analyzed by flow cytometry to assay for alterations in m mitochondrial membrane potential . Superoxide O production was measured by staining cells with membrane permeable dye dihydroethidium HE for the last 15 min. Superoxide anions oxidize HE to fluorescent ethidium permitting analysis by flow cytometry.

As seen in the compound of formula II X Cl decreases m evidenced by an increased number of CMXRos negative cells P

As seen in treatment of MM.1S cells with compound of formula II X Cl triggers a decrease in mitochondrial cyto c upper left panel and smac upper right panel and a concurrent increase of these proteins in the cytosolic fractions middle left and right panels respectively . Reprobing the immunoblots with anti Hsp60 lower left panel and anti tubulin lower right panel Abs confirms purity of mitochondrial extracts and equal protein loading. Release of mitochondrial apoptogenic proteins cyto c and Smac DIABLO induce activation of caspases 9 and 3. MM.1S cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM for 24 h and harvested mitochondrial and cytosolic protein fractions were separated by 12.5 SDS PAGE and analyzed by immunoblotting with anti cyto c upper panel or anti Smac middle panel Abs. As a control for equal loading of proteins and purity of mitochondrial fractions filters were also reprobed with anti tubulin lower right panel and anti Hsp60 Abs lower left panel respectively. Blots are representative of three independent experiments.

MM.1S cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM for 24 h and harvested cytosolic proteins were separated by 12.5 SDS PAGE and analyzed by immunoblotting with anti caspase 8 Abs and anti caspase 9 Abs. As seen in treatment of MM.1 S cells with the compound of formula II X Cl induces proteolytic cleavage of caspase 9. Moreover the compound also activates caspase 8 . Both caspase 9 mitochondria dependent and caspase 8 mitochondria independent are known to proteolytically cleave and activate a common downstream effector caspase 3 resulting in PARP cleavage. See Miller L. K. 1999 9 323 8 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Thus MM.1S or MM.1R MM cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl 7 nM for 24 h and assessed for apoptosis by both PARP and caspase 3 cleavage assays. Total protein lysates were subjected to SDS PAGE analysis. Immunoblot analysis of the lysates was performed with anti PARP upper panel or anti caspase 3 lower panel Abs. FL indicates full length and CF denotes cleaved fragment. This data further shows that the compound of formula II X Cl triggers caspase 3 and PARP cleavage .

Immunoblot analysis was performed using antibodies to cytochrome c Smac Caspase 8 9 or 3 Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. tubulin Sigma St. Louis Mo. PARP Hsp60 or Bax BD Bioscience Pharmingen San Diego Calif. . Blots were developed by enhanced chemiluminescence ECL Amersham Arlington Heights Ill. .

MM.1S cells were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib in the presence or absence of caspase 9 inhibitor LEHD FMK caspase 8 inhibitor IETD fmk or caspase 3 inhibitor Z Val Ala Asp fluoromethylketone z VAD fink . As seen in caspase 3 inhibition markedly abrogates both the compound of formula II X Cl and Bortezomib induced apoptosis. Results are mean SD of four independent experiments P

These biochemical data were confirmed by genetic studies using dominant negative DN strategies. MM.1S cells were also transiently transfected using Cell line Nucleofecto kit V according to the manufacturer s instructions Amaxa Biosystems Germany with vector alone DN caspase 8 DN caspase 9 or DN FADD and cotransfected with vector containing green fluorescence protein GFP alone. Following transfections GFP positive cells were selected by flow cytometry treated with the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib and analyzed for viability. Treatment of DN caspase 8 transfected MM cells with the compound of formula II X Cl IC50 7 nM markedly increased survival of these cells compared to the cells transfected with DN caspase 9 . In contrast treatment of either DN caspase 8 or DN caspase 9 transfected MM.1S cells with Bortezomib IC50 5 nM increased the survival to a similar extent. The functional specificity of DNcaspase 8 and DN caspase 9 was confirmed by treatment of MM.1S cells with known inducers of caspase 9 Dex and caspase 8 in these cells anti Fas MoAb Chauhan et al. 1997 . These data suggest that 1 compound of formula II X Cl induced MM cell apoptosis is predominantly mediated by caspase 8 and 2 Bortezomib induced apoptosis requires both caspase 8 and caspase 9 activation.

It was next determined whether inhibition of an upstream signaling pathway that leads to caspase 8 activation affects the response to the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib. The Fas associated death domain FADD protein is an important part of the deathinducing signaling complexes DISCs that assemble upon engagement of TNF receptor family members such as Fas resulting in proteolytic processing and autoactivation of pro caspase 8. Since both the compound of formula II X Cl and Bortezomib trigger caspase 8 activation the role of FADD during this event in MM cells was evaluated using DN FADD. Blockade of FADD with DN FADD significantly attenuated compound of formula II X Cl induced cytotoxicity compared to the empty vector transfected MM.1S cells 42 2.0 viable cells in vector transfected cells versus 76 5.1 viable cells in DN FADD transfected cells p

Previous studies have established that Bax induces mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. See Wei M. C. Zong W. X. Cheng E. H. Lindsten T. Panoutsakopoulou V. Ross A. J. Roth K. A. MacGregor G. R. Thompson C. B. Korsmeyer S. J. 2001 Science 292 727 30 and Lei K. Nimnual A. Zong W. X. Kennedy N. J. Flavell R. A. Thompson C. B. Bar Sagi D. Davis R. J. 2002 Mol Cell Biol 22 4929 42 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Thus whether MM cell apoptosis induced by the compound of formula II X Cl correlates with alterations in Bax was evaluated. MM.1S MM cells were treated with either the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib and mitochondrial protein extracts were subjected to immunoblot analysis with anti Bax or anti Hsp60 Abs. As seen in the compound of formula II X Cl induces little if any increase in Bax levels in mitochondria. Blots are representatives of three independent experiments. Importantly Bortezomib triggers a significant accumulation of Bax in mitochondria.

Mouse embryonic fibroblast MEFs carrying wild type Bax or knock outs were treated with the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib for 48 h and analyzed for cell viability by MTT assays. As seen in the compound of formula II X Cl decreases viability in both Bax WT and Bax knock out whereas deletion of Bax confers significant resistance to Bortezomib. Results are mean SD of three independent experiments P

Bortezomib therapy is associated with toxicity in patients. Thus the effects of the compound of formula II X Cl and Bortezomib on normal cells was compared. Lymphocytes from five healthy donors were treated with various concentrations 0 20 nM of the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib 0 20 nM for 72 h and analyzed for cytotoxicity by an MTT assay. As seen in the compound of formula II X Cl does not significantly decrease the survival of normal lymphocytes P 0.27 from J T trend test even at higher doses 20 nM . Results are the mean SD of three independent experiments. In contrast Bortezomib significantly decreases the viability of lymphocytes even at lower concentrations of 6 10 nM. Of note ICof patient MM cells is reached at concentrations of the compound of formula II X Cl that have no effect on normal lymphocytes whereas ICof Bortezomib for MM cells triggers 50 decrease in viability of normal lymphocytes. Together these data suggest that the compound of formula II X Cl has selective anti MM activity and particularly it is less toxic to normal cells than Bortezomib.

Whether the compound of formula II or Bortezomib alters proteasome activity in normal lymphocytes and skin fibroblasts was also examined. Both the compound of formula II X Cl and Bortezomib significantly inhibited proteasome activity in these cells 20 nM of the compound of formula II X Cl or Bortezomib triggered 99 or 59 11 inhibition of Chymotrypsin like proteasome activity respectively data not shown . Thus although 20 nM of the compound of formula II X Cl did not trigger significant cytotoxicity in normal lymphocytes it reduced Chymotrypsin like proteasome activity in these cells. Similarly treatment of normal CCD 27sk fibroblasts at the IC50 for the compound of formula II X Cl 317 nM or Bortezomib 15 nM also inhibited proteasome activity data not shown .

During apoptosis Bax neutralizes the antiapoptotic function of Bcl 2 thereby facilitating the cyto c release and caspase 9 activation. Bcl 2 also confers drug resistance in cancer cells including MM and provides partial protection against Bortezomib induced killing. Therefore whether ectopic expression of Bcl 2 in MM.1S cells affects the ability of the compound of formula II or Bortezomib to trigger cytotoxicity and postmitochondrial apoptotic signaling in MM cells was evaluated. Overexpression of Bcl 2 promoted a modest increase in viability of cells treated with both agents for the compound of formula II X Cl 50 2.6 viability in Bcl 2 transfected cells versus 39 1.5 viability in vector transfected cells p

As seen in treatment of MM.1S or MM.1R MM cells with the compound of formula II X Cl in combination with Bortezomib for 24 h induces synergistic growth inhibition. Results are mean SD of three independent experiments P

