---

title: Method for developing a repair process to correct a deformed gas turbine engine component
abstract: A method of developing a repair process for a gas turbine engine component deformed during engine operation includes determining peak stress locations in a model of the component, applying loads to sample components based on the model to produce geometrical correction values in the samples, generating data from the samples including the loads applied and the geometrical correction values produced, destructively analyzing the samples at the peak stress locations for structural imperfections, and correlating the loads applied to the geometrical correction values produced to determine allowable loads necessary to produce target geometrical correction values in a used component substantially free of structural imperfections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970555&OS=07970555&RS=07970555
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07970555
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080415
---
The Government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. F33657 99 D 2051 awarded by the United States Air Force.

The present application is related to the following copending applications filed on the same day as this application TURBINE BLADE TWIST ANGLE CORRECTION TOOLING by inventors Ephraim C. Davis Bryan G. Parrette and Larry D. Cronin U.S. application Ser. No. 12 082 896 and METHODS FOR CORRECTING TWIST ANGLE IN A GAS TURBINE ENGINE BLADE by inventors Garrett Kernozicky Ephraim C. Davis Thomas P. Cap and Paul Balko U.S. application Serial No. 12 082 864 . All of these applications are incorporated herein by this reference.

The present invention relates to turbine blade repair procedures and tooling. In particular the present invention relates to a method for developing repair procedures to correct deformed gas turbine engine components.

A gas turbine engine commonly includes a fan a compressor a combustor and a turbine. During engine operation working medium gases for example air are drawn into the engine by the fan and directed into and compressed in the compressor. The compressed air is channeled to the combustor where fuel is added to the air and the air fuel mixture is ignited. The products of combustion are discharged to the turbine section which extracts work from these products to power the compressor and produce useful thrust to power for example an aircraft in flight.

The compressor and turbine commonly include alternating stages of rotor blades and stator vanes. Compressor and turbine blades and vanes often include complex contoured airfoil geometries designed to optimally interact with the working medium gas passing through the engine. One common feature of airfoil geometries is the blade twist angle. The twist angle is the angular displacement of the airfoil about a spanwise axis such as the stacking axis from the root to the tip of the airfoil. During normal engine operation the blade twist angle feature which is a critical characteristic of gas turbine engine blades decreases due to thermo mechanical cycling and aerodynamic loading of the blades. The twist angle must be restored to the original manufactured condition during engine overhaul prior to returning the blade to service.

Turbine blade twist correction is commonly accomplished by clamping the blade root in a fixture and manually applying a load to the tip of the blade using for example a two handed wrench configured to clamp the blade tip. An operator twists the blade using the wrench measures the blade twist angle and repeats the twisting procedure until the correct twist angle is reached. Because the operator can only estimate how much force to apply each time this approach often requires many iterations to achieve the desired twist angle. This results in a time consuming labor intensive and costly process. This approach can also result in over twist due to applying excessive force. Over twisting is particularly problematic in blades prone to micro cracking such as blades made from a directionally solidified nickel alloy.

A method of developing a repair process for a gas turbine engine component deformed during engine operation includes determining peak stress locations in a model of the component applying loads to sample components based on the model to produce geometrical correction values in the samples generating data from the samples including the loads applied and the geometrical correction values produced destructively analyzing the samples at the peak stress locations for structural imperfections and correlating the loads applied to the geometrical correction values produced to determine allowable loads necessary to produce target geometrical correction values in a used component substantially free of structural imperfections.

A twist angle repair apparatus may be used to correct twist angle of blade . For example root of blade may be clamped in a fixture. A twist angle gauge may be employed to measure an initial twist angle of blade by for example contacting shroud . The twist angle gauge may then be disengaged from blade and a wrench may be clamped to shroud of blade . A measured load may be applied to the wrench to re twist blade to correct twist angle .

Determining analytically peak stress locations in a model of the component step may include electronically analyzing a computer generated model of the component. For example a commercially available software program such as a Computer Aided Design CAD program may be employed to generate a model of the turbine component. The CAD model may then be used by the same software program or imported into another software program for structural analysis. The analysis software may employ numerical methods such as Finite Element Analysis FEA to determine regions of the component subject to high stress and therefore subject to the development of imperfections such as micro cracking. shows an example of a computer generated model of blade including a contour plot representing high stress regions in blade .

Repair processes developed from methods according to the present invention such as methods for correcting the twist angle in a turbine blade are generally known as cold working processes. Cold working a material or component involves plastically deforming i.e. yielding the component which permanently alters the material properties e.g. the stress strain relationship of the component. Therefore determining peak stress locations 32 may include determining analytically locations in a model of the component at which the component will yield under an applied load. In this way both the locations at which the component is likely to yield and the magnitude of the load at which the component may yield may be analytically modeled for the component for which the repair process is being developed.

Referring again to in addition to determining analytically peak stress locations in a model of the component step method includes applying loads to sample components based on the model to produce geometrical correction values in the samples step . In one embodiment of the present invention applying loads to sample components to produce geometrical correction values in the samples step may include twisting sample airfoils to produce twist angle correction values in the sample airfoils. For example a set of turbine blade samples with twisted airfoils such as airfoil of blade shown in may be restrained at root using a fixture. A wrench may be used to clamp the tips of the blades for example shroud of blade and to apply a range of measured torques to the tips of the blade samples. Applying the range of measured torques to the samples will produce a range of twist angle correction values in the samples. In another embodiment of the present invention applying loads to sample components to produce geometrical correction values in the samples step may include applying axial loads toward the tip of sample airfoils to produce lean correction values in the sample airfoils. For example a set of turbine blade samples such as blade shown in may be restrained at root and subjected to a range of axial loads toward the tip of the samples such as shroud of blade to produce a range of lean correction values in the samples.

Method also includes generating data from the samples including the loads applied and the geometrical correction values produced step . For example the load applied to and the corresponding geometrical correction value produced in each of the samples may be recorded such as by writing the data down storing the data in computer readable form or otherwise storing the data for future use such as by dictation onto a magnetic tape.

In addition to generating data from the samples including the loads applied and the geometrical correction values produced step method includes destructively analyzing the samples at the peak stress locations for structural imperfections step such as micro cracking. Destructively analyzing the samples at the peak stress locations for structural imperfections step may include cutting the samples along one or more cut lines intersecting the peak stress locations. For example is a detail view of the computer model of blade shown in illustrating cutting blade along chordwise cut line and spanwise cut line which cut lines intersect with high stress region . After the samples have been cut along lines intersecting with the peak stress locations the samples may be microscopically or macroscopically inspected for structural imperfections.

Method illustrated in also includes correlating the loads applied to the geometrical correction values produced to determine a range of allowable loads necessary to produce a range of target geometrical correction values in a used component substantially free of structural imperfections step . is a graph illustrating an empirically generated correlation between loads applied vertical axis for desired geometric correction produced horizontal axis which is based on trials completed on a series of turbine blade samples. In the asymptotic curve represents the correlation between the load applied to the geometric correction produced which curve may be generated using for example the load and corresponding geometric correction data generated from the testing of the sample components step . Curve may also account for any destructively analyzed sample components which upon inspection exhibit structural imperfections. Therefore in curve may include only geometric correction values from samples that do not exhibit structural imperfections. Using the correlation between the applied loads and the corresponding geometric corrections produced a maximum allowable load may be determined such as load line shown in . Therefore from the correlation between load and geometric correction illustrated in a maximum allowable load illustrated as load line may be determined below which a range of allowable loads may be applied to produce a range of target geometric correction values in a used turbine component without producing structural imperfections such as micro cracking.

In addition to correlating the loads applied to the geometrical correction values produced to determine a range of allowable loads necessary to produce a range of target geometrical correction values in a used component substantially free of structural imperfections step method of also includes modifying the range of allowable loads to account for one or more repair process steps that change the geometric correction values after the loads have been applied to the used component step . Repair processes for certain gas turbine engine components such as turbine blade may necessitate post geometric correction processing that tends to change the amount of correction produced by the applied load. For example the blade of including the twisted airfoil may be subjected to a twist correction repair process developed using methods according to the present invention. Twist angle of airfoil may be corrected by restraining root of blade and applying a torsional load to shroud using a wrench. However repair of blade may also necessitate heat treating blade to for example reduce residual stresses created during the twisting step. Heat treating blade in turn may have the secondary effect of causing airfoil to un twist slightly thereby partially undoing the twist correction. In such cases the maximum allowable load i.e. the maximum torsional load applied to shroud of blade may be increased to over twist airfoil enough to account for the un twisting caused by heat treatment.

Methods according to the present invention may be used to develop turbine component repair processes with several advantages over known repairs. Methods according to the present invention may be employed to develop repair processes by determining critical repair process inputs e.g. the magnitude of load applied to a geometrically deformed gas turbine engine component necessary to produce target repair process outputs e.g. the geometric correction produced in the component from the applied load while simultaneously substantially reducing the risk of deleterious effects of the repair such as initiating micro cracking in the component. Methods according to the present invention also account for repair process steps that affect the geometric corrections produced by the applied loads such as the un twisting effect of post twist correction heat treatment of a turbine blade airfoil. Embodiments of the present invention may therefore be employed to develop robust and efficient repair processes which are less subject to for example ad hoc operator application production of unacceptable structural imperfections and over correction of geometric deformations in the turbine components under repair.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

