---

title: Remote selection and authorization of collected media transmission
abstract: A personal media system implemented as a tuple service allows remote access, selection, authorization, and transmission of personal media stored in a collection on a home network across a network to a guest network. A mobile client device enables browsing/searching for content, shows media players within a domain, finds a media player within a domain for a given media type, gets a media object, and renders a media object on a given media player within a domain. Each gateway has an agent that registers to the server and responds to commands from the server. The server acts as a hub for moving digital content objects between domains, provides media services on behalf of domains (e.g., transcoding, proxy streaming, etc.), provides a web interface to mobile client devices for control over user domains, sends commands to the personal media agents, and creates an accessible set of domains for a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977710&OS=08977710&RS=08977710
owner: QUALCOMM, Incorporated
number: 08977710
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080618
---
The described aspects relate to networked communications and more particularly to remote controlling streaming media selection and authorization between private networks.

Increasingly people are building up collections of digital media such as audio files video files digital images etc. While portable memory devices such as thumb drives CD R disks and MP3 players have provided some capability to physically carry such files from place to place for use often such memory devices are too limited in carrying capacity as well as being too easily lost or stolen for entrusting with sensitive data files. Still collectors of digital media would benefit from being able to access their collections without the necessity of setting up an elaborate network bridge. For example a fully capable computing platform may not be available at the visited location for such bridging or the collector may lack the expertise or permissions to set up such a bridge. Malicious access to a collection also needs to be prevented.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the present disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the described aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof various features are described in connection with use of a client device such as a handheld communication device as a remote control for searching for and selecting personal media content stored on a home network. The user can direct transmission through a network for playing on a guest network.

In one aspect a method is provided to facilitate communications between devices of two discrete privately addressed networks wherein each of the two discrete privately addressed networks are coupled via a publicly addressed network and each have a corresponding gateway that operably couples to the publicly addressed network. A client device is registered to a media content server coupled to the publicly addressed network. The registered client device is associated with a first gateway corresponding to the first one of the two discrete privately addressed networks that stores personal media content. In response to user input to the client device received by the media content server the client device is associated with a second gateway corresponding to the second one of the two discrete privately addressed networks. In response to a user input to the client device received by the media content server personal media content is selected for transmission from the first gateway to the second gateway via the media content server.

In other aspects at least one processor includes modules for performing the communication facilitating method. A computer program product includes sets of instructions for performing the communication facilitating method. An apparatus providing means for performing the communication facilitating method.

In another aspect an apparatus facilitates communications between devices of two discrete privately addressed networks wherein each of the two discrete privately addressed networks are coupled via a publicly addressed network and each have a corresponding gateway that operably couples to the publicly addressed network. The apparatus includes a media content server coupled to the publicly addressed network that registers a client device. A first association component associates the registered client device with a first gateway corresponding to the first one of the two discrete privately addressed networks and storing personal media content. A second association component associates the client device with a second gateway corresponding to the second one of the two discrete privately addressed networks in response to user input to the client device received by the media content server. A media content transmission component selects personal media content for transmission from the first gateway to the second gateway via the media content server in response to a user input to the client device received by the media content server.

In another aspect a method controls communications between devices of two discrete privately addressed networks wherein each of the two discrete privately addressed networks are coupled via a publicly addressed network and each have a corresponding gateway that operably couples to the publicly addressed network. A client device requests registration of a client device to a media content server coupled to the publicly addressed network. Client device information is sent sufficient for associating the registered client device with a first gateway corresponding to the first one of the two discrete privately addressed networks that stores personal media content. A user input with the client device is sent to the media content server for associating the client device with a second gateway corresponding to the second one of the two discrete privately addressed networks. A user input with the client device is sent to the media content server for selecting personal media content for transmission from the first gateway to the second gateway via the media content server.

In other aspects at least one processor includes modules for performing the communication control method. A computer program product includes sets of instructions for performing the communication control method. An apparatus providing means for performing the communication control method.

In yet a further aspect an apparatus controls communications between devices of two discrete privately addressed networks wherein each of the two discrete privately addressed networks are coupled via a publicly addressed network and each have a corresponding gateway that operably couples to the publicly addressed network. A communication component remotely communicates with a media content server coupled to the publicly addressed network that registers a client device. A user interface requests association of the registered client device with a first gateway corresponding to the first one of the two discrete privately addressed networks and storing personal media content and for requesting association of the client device with a second gateway corresponding to the second one of the two discrete privately addressed networks. A media content transmission component execute in the user interface selects personal media content for transmission from the first gateway to the second gateway via the media content server.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects and are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the aspects and versions may be employed. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings and the disclosed versions are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

A personal media system implemented as a tuple service allows remote access selection authorization and transmission of personal media stored in a collection on a home network across a network e.g. Internet to a guest network. A mobile client device e.g. smart cell phone provides a graphical user interface to browse search for content to show media players within a domain to find a media player within a domain that can handle a media type e.g. MP3 to get a media object and to render a media object on a given media player within a domain. Each gateway has a personal media agent that registers to the personal media server and responds to commands from the server. The server acts as a hub for moving digital content objects between domains provides media services on behalf of domains e.g. content transcoding proxy streaming services etc. provides a web interface to mobile client devices to allow control over user domains sends commands to the personal media agents and creates a set of domains that are accessible to a particular user.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that the various aspects may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

Furthermore the one or more aspects may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed aspects. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips etc. optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD etc. smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick etc. . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the disclosed aspects.

Various aspects will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional components modules etc. and or may not include all of the components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used. The various aspects disclosed herein can be performed on electrical devices including devices that utilize touch screen display technologies and or mouse and keyboard type interfaces. Examples of such devices include computers desktop and mobile smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs and other electronic devices both wired and wireless.

Referring initially to illustrated is a personal media system that allows a client mobile device to remotely browse search and render digital media content stored in a content store on a home network domain without the necessity for the mobile device to duplicate even a portion of media content . This interactivity is facilitated by a personal media service My Media Service implemented on a personal media server My Media Server that is coupled to the client mobile device that interfaces across a distributed network e.g. the Internet to a personal media agent My Media Agent executed as a software component on a host gateway device of the home network . The host gateway device manages other devices in particular a media player . The gateway device can be a home personal computer PC a networked multi media entertainment system or other devices such as an open service gateway initiative OSGi device which is a Java based service platform that can be remotely managed.

The personal media service also interfaces across the distributed network to a personal media agent My Media Agent executed as a software component on a guest gateway device of a guest network domain . The guest gateway device manages the guest network such as a media content store a media player and other devices . A user subscribes to the personal media service through a web interface such as through the host gateway device or through the mobile device as depicted. The personal media service can validate details given for the mobile device such as through short message service SMS .

It should be appreciated that the mobile device can provide a remote control access to a user s personal media on a home gateway device that is not otherwise convenient as a user interface. Further a user can gain access either permanent or temporary to a foreign domain such as the guest gateway device . In one aspect the user could enter the foreign domain into the mobile device . The command is passed from the server to the agent in the guest gateway device providing details of the user who has requested access and asking for access rights for that user. For applications in which the guest gateway device has insufficient user interface capabilities this command may result in another form of communication e.g. short message service SMS to the owner of the guest gateway device to allow access rights. If accessed is allowed the guest gateway device domain is added to the user s domain which can include expiration criteria or other access constraints such as types of operations permitted. If the user wishes to play media content between home and guest domains the server can be responsible for fetching the media content from one domain and rendering it on a player in the other domain by appropriate commands to the agents .

With further reference to the personal media service connected to the network a distributed computer system such as but not limited to the Internet is characterized by rapid real time interchange among many dissimilar processes executing simultaneously on a large array of dissimilar and geographically diverse processors. A distributed computer system s resources are usually spatially separated and the execution of its applications often involves multiple execution threads that can be widely separated in time. To address some of the challenges of writing applications for use on distributed computer systems tuple space based coordination languages were developed. In the illustrative version the personal media service is implemented in tuple space. Thereby the personal media service can overcome challenges in dissimilarities in the home and guest domains that would otherwise complicate if not entirely preclude such remotely searching and accessing personal media content.

A tuple space is a globally shared associatively addressed memory space that is organized as a grouping of tuples. A tuple is the basic element of a tuple space system. In the context of a tuple space based coordination language like Linda a tuple is a vector having fields or values of certain types. In a broader sense a tuple is an entry in an information storage system. For example a row in a relational database system can be referred to as a tuple.

In Linda like languages constructs called templates are used to associatively address tuples via matching techniques. A template matches a tuple if they have an equal number of fields and if each template field matches the corresponding tuple field.

Tuple space based coordination languages provide a simple yet powerful mechanism for inter process communication and synchronization which is the crux of parallel and distributed programming. A process with data to share generates a tuple and places it into the tuple space. A process requiring data simply requests a tuple from the tuple space.

Tuple space programs may be easier to write and maintain for a number of reasons including the following 

 1 Destination uncoupling fully anonymous communication the creator of a tuple requires no knowledge about the future use of that tuple or its destination.

 2 Spatial uncoupling because tuples are retrieved using an associative addressing scheme multiple address space disjoint processes can access tuples in the same way.

 3 Temporal uncoupling tuples have their own life span independent of the processes that generated them or any processes that may read them. This enables time disjoint processes to communicate seamlessly.

Referring to in one illustrative aspect that leverages certain advantages of tuple space a system for personal media includes a server that hosts a tuple space having a personal media service tuple my media service tuple operable to evaluate a plurality of data tuples received by tuple space depicted as a media request tuple from a client device a home gateway tuple from a home gateway and a guest gateway tuple from a guest gateway . A data tuple my media directory tuple indexes personal media content stored on the home gateway as well as perhaps personal media content on a secondary device e.g. digital locker accessed via a secondary device tuple .

The media request tuple can incorporate client user identification data and my media directory commands from the client device . The my media service tuple authenticates the user identification data against user domain access tuple and invokes a media search tuple to locate the requested media such as from the my media directory tuple or perhaps other search engine interfaces not shown .

If the command from the client device indicates selection and transmission then my media service tuple can utilize a media streaming tuple to correctly format the media content for transmission from a network carrier that supports the home gateway across a communication channel e.g. the Internet to a network carrier that supports the guest gateway . For instances in which the guest gateway has more than one default media player associated with the media type being transmitted e.g. streamed the client device can advantageously select the desired destination. Facilitating the interfaces between tuple space and the other participants in the personal media system are a my media agent hosted by the home gateway and a my media agent hosted by the guest gateway .

In order to increase the types of legacy guest gateways that can benefit from aspects of the present disclosure the client device can include a local communication link e.g. wired or wireless plug n play connection . The client device can thereby assist in identifying a previously loaded my media agent already accessible by the my media service tuple . Alternatively the client device can assist in the installation of the my media agent either via the network carrier or from local storage on the client device . In addition the client device can serve as a communication channel between the tuple space and the guest gateway for instances in which a network connection is not available or desired to be used.

The tuple space comprises an abstract space operable to receive data objects and includes a predetermined set of operations that can be performed within the space. For example the predetermined set of functions may include an in function and a rd function which both take input parameters that allow the selection of specific tuples in the space by matching the input parameters where given with those values present within the tuple space. Additionally both the in and rd functions may have non blocking equivalents inp and rdp . In some aspects the predetermined set of functions may include a set of operations such as JAVA methods that may be performed on both tuple space and tuples.

Further in a specific example each tuple is an instance of a com.qualcomm.qspaces.linda.Tuple class or subclass and is created with a set of attributes defined by an array of objects which are specified when the tuple is constructed. The array can be zero length however in some aspects the array may not be null. In addition in some aspects none of the individual attribute objects in the array may be null.

In some aspects when the respective tuple is first constructed and every time the respective attributes are retrieved from the respective tuple the array of objects may be defensively copied using a very fast form of in memory serialization. This process allows the respective tuple to be immutable and therefore guarantees the integrity of tuple space in which the respective tuple resides.

In the above noted aspects tuple equality adheres to the same equality principles of any JAVA object including the symmetry rule which states that if t.equals t then t.equals t .

Specifically a tuple equals another tuple e.g. t.equals t if t known as a template meets the following criteria 

2 The attributes of the template t are equal to the attributes of the tuple t meaning that t s attributes are the same as t s attributes irrespective of their order.

In other aspects a tuple matches another tuple e.g. t.matches t if t known as a template meets the following criteria 

2 The attributes of the template t match the attributes of the tuple t meaning that t s attributes are the same set or a subset of t s attributes irrespective of their order.

In one example when matching one tuple with another the symmetry rule does not apply so t.matches t does not necessarily equate to t.matches t .

In some aspects the comparison of one set of tuple attributes with another uses the normal object equality rules so any object used as a tuple attribute implements the object.equals Object obj and object.hashcode methods.

A respective tuple is added to tuple space with a lease. Lease is a period of time for example specified in milliseconds which defines how long the tuple will remain in the respective tuple space . For example lease having a value of zero may indicate that the respective tuple never expires. Once lease has expired for a respective tuple the tuple is automatically removed from tuple space .

The service tuples represent services that interact with clients of the tuple space such as client devices . Further the service tuples are also autonomous live JAVA objects in their own right which may also interact with the tuple space and other tuples in the space. The service tuples may be discovered in the same manner as other tuples e.g. by matching the class and attributes of the tuple. In some aspects the service tuples may not be used in this way however rather the service tuples are interacted with indirectly by placing other tuples such as data tuples the media request tuple the home gateway tuple and the guest gateway tuple into the tuple space .

For example a client such as a respective client device may create data tuple and of class A with attributes abc and 123 and places the tuple into tuple space . As such data tuple can be described using the following notation 

As described previously the service tuple is a live object which can interact with the tuple space in the same way as a client application. As such in this example the service tuple has been instantiated and is blocking on a read from the tuple space for any tuples with a matching template for class A and any attributes. Such a matching criterion can be described as follows 

Referring to for example a communications network includes one or a plurality of client devices wireless telephone devices in this case utilizes a wireless network to communicate with wired network e.g. a local area network LAN having network device or server and or storage device and or data source . One or both of network device server and or storage device may include tuple space and some portions the above discussed components of system . Further data source may include a processor and a memory in communication with the processor wherein the memory comprises a tuple generation module having tuple generation logic operable to generate a plurality of data tuples from any source of data operable to facilitate media content searching retrieval streaming etc. such as a web based transactional service. In particular wireless device includes a computer platform having a memory in communication with a processor such as via an application programming interface API that enables interaction with any resident applications such as a my media interface that generates user related data and a user identifier and a gateway interface that enables direct plug n play interfacing to a gateway .

The wireless network is connected to the wired network via a carrier network . The network device or the server and or the storage device and or data source may be present on the communications network with any other network components that are desired to provide community management capabilities and or cellular telecommunication services. The network device or the server and or the storage device and or the data source may communicate with the carrier network through a data link which may be a data link such as the Internet a secure local area network LANA wide area network WAN or other network. The carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further the carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . For example in the network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. The MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information.

The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communication devices for example using predetermined voice and or data packet services such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and short messaging service SMS respectively or any other over the air methods. Thus the communication network in combination with the system allow for the discovery creation and management of electronic or on line user media access based on relationships discovered between data objects in a tuple space.

It should be noted that is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a wireless communication network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Communications network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless communication devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among other components of a wireless and or wired network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In an illustrative mobile communication device can serve as client device for remotely accessing and controlling personal media content with a graphical user interface GUI which can include physical controls such as dial tone multi function DTMF keypad with four cursor keys and select button and left middle and right menu buttons and . The GUI can include a display as depicted. Alternatively a display with touch screen capability can also be used to provide soft input controls not shown . The display can depict a personal media content index organized under a hierarchy of tabs of my media tab player selection tab a find media search tab and a gateway linking tab . For example under the my media tab list items A D can be a listing of media types e.g. audio video images etc. artists album titles genres playlists song titles etc. Advertising banners that can be interactive are advantageously selected to correspond to media purchase opportunities or collateral services related to a media listing being depicted.

In in another illustrative aspect a user can navigate through various GUI states to interact with the personal media system . An inner hierarchical loop is comprised of a media source state a media player state a find state and a link state . From the media source state sub tier states are reached of media type state a media category state a media subcategory state and a lower subcategory state . From the media player state sub tier states are reached of player listing and a select player state . From the find state a search query state can be reached. From the link state a scan gateway state select gateway state and a gateway listing state can be reached.

In in a further aspect of a personal media system an illustrative pattern of communications is depicted between a mobile device a home gateway a guest gateway and a tuple space server . As depicted at the mobile device registers with the tuple space server . A user subscribes to the my media service by registering through a web interface either via a mobile device or via a web browser. When through a web browser details can be entered to identify the mobile device . A user interface widget can be bundled with the mobile device to facilitate the controls and display.

As depicted at the home gateway registers with the tuple space server . Registering can activate a bundled software agent already present on the mobile device or be followed by downloading of the my media agent for execution on the home gateway . When the agent connects to the server for the first time the user s registration details can be provided thus giving the home domain of the home gateway a well known identity e.g. Bruce s house . This identity is tied to the user s mobile device by the server . As depicted at the home gateway provides media content directory data to the tuple space server . As depicted at perhaps assisted by the mobile device the guest gateway registers to the server . As depicted at the guest gateway has its media players indexed with the tuple space server . As depicted at the mobile device connects to the agent hosted on the guest gateway either directly or via the tuple space server or other networked connection. Similarly as depicted at the mobile device selects a media player connected to the guest gateway .

As depicted at the user can use the mobile device to search media content indexed by the tuple space server . The Tuple space server in turn authenticates the mobile device as depicted at . As depicted at the tuple space server either obtains the index of media content from the home gateway in the first instance updates the index or verifies the communication channel for retrieving the media. The tuple space server returns to the mobile device the requested media content results as depicted at . Upon selection by the mobile device of media content for transmission e.g. streaming as depicted at the tuple space server responds as depicted at by accessing or requesting the media selection from the home gateway which is returned as depicted at . The tuple space server can advantageously proxy format and or stream as depicted at to prepare the content for transfer which is then depicted at as going to the guest gateway.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect unless stated otherwise.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter have been described with reference to several flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described herein. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed herein are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

It should be appreciated that any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

