---

title: Real-time pricing of shipping vendors
abstract: Systems and methods for real-time pricing of shipping vendors are provided. Various shipping vendors may be queried concerning shipping specifications. Some embodiments provide for a query to be transmitted to a shipping vendor through an interface associated with the particular shipping vendor. In response to the query, real-time pricing information associated with the shipping specifications is received and displayed to a user. Upon the user designating a shipping vendor, customized shipping labels for each shipping vendor may be generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712924&OS=08712924&RS=08712924
owner: Lynch Marks LLC
number: 08712924
owner_city: Berkeley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080115
---
The present application claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 928 516 filed May 16 2007 and entitled Methods and Systems for Shipping Management. The present application is related to nonprovisional application titled Integrated Databases for Tracking Shipping Information and Documenting Mail Work Flows filed concurrently herewith. The disclosures of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to shipment management. More specifically the present invention relates to real time pricing of shipping vendors.

There are presently a variety of ways to ship an item. The shipping vendors available to a user may include various well known national and international vendors such as FedEx United Parcel Service UPS United States postal service USPS and DHL as well as various local couriers. The availability of shipping services by shipping vendors may vary from location to location. For example a local courier may only provide service within a particular city. Further some shipping vendors may not deliver internationally.

A shipment may also be sent using a variety of shipping options including declared value packaging options recipient acknowledgement and the like. For example an item may need to be delivered in a padded envelope by a certain date and acknowledged by recipient signature. The availability of various shipping options may differ from vendor to vendor. For example a particular vendor may not offer overnight shipping another vendor may require overnight shipments to be ready for pick up by a certain time and another vendor may have size and weight restrictions on overnight shipments. In addition to size and weight various other packaging specifications e.g. shape contents of package value of contents may also limit the availability of shipping options.

The variety of available shipment options and shipping vendors allows users to tailor their shipments in a variety of ways. Further multiple shipping vendors allow for alternatives should a first shipping vendor be unable to ship an item or provide a certain shipping option. However these multiple options for shipment complicate the decision making process with regard to which shipping vendor to use and which shipping options to choose.

Cost generally is an important factor in choosing a shipping vendor and shipping options. The cost of shipping an item however is highly variable among vendors and may further vary based on the shipping options article specifications etc. Many users cannot afford to ship every article for overnight hand delivery with special packaging insurance etc. On the other hand a user may need to ensure that a certain item be delivered by a certain time and acknowledged by the recipient. To choose a shipping vendor and shipping options therefore requires that the user determine and compare costs while assessing the benefit provided by the various shipping options available from each shipping vendor.

Presently determining costs may require a user to separately contact each shipping vendor e.g. visit websites for each shipping vendor provide article specifications to each vendor determine what shipping options are available from each vendor and gather quotes from each vendor concerning shipments and a variety of shipping specifications. Gathering quotes in such a manner is inefficient and time consuming and will provide only limited information since both the rates and availability of each shipping vendor and shipping option are not static. Further shipping quotes are extremely time sensitive i.e. the cost for delivery by a certain date from a particular vendor generally increases as time passes. Certain shipping options may also become unavailable after a certain time.

Another presently available method for pricing shipments among multiple vendors includes consulting rate tables for each shipping vendor. Consulting a rate table may also not provide any useful bases for comparison among vendors because such rate tables are only valid until rates change. Rates may change weekly based on various factors including shipping volume. In some systems new and updated rates tables may need to be uploaded into various systems for processing.

There is therefore a need in the art for improved systems and methods for real time pricing of shipping vendors.

Exemplary systems and methods of the present invention provide for real time pricing of shipping vendors. Information concerning desired shipping specifications is received from a user. A query based on the shipping specifications is sent to various shipping vendors. In response to the query real time pricing information is received and displayed to the user based on the shipping specifications. The user may also choose a vendor or multiple vendors and shipping labels may be generated.

Methods for real time pricing of shipping vendors may further include configuring a user device using account information for configuration querying asynchronously using vendor specific interfaces to query each vendor using information provided by a contacts manager as shipping specifications and generating vendor specific shipping labels based on shipping specification and or pricing information. In some embodiments the method may further include displaying price quotes by various sort options e.g. vendor cost delivery date . Further embodiments may include indicating the fastest and least expensive options e.g. using graphics color .

Systems for real time pricing of shipping vendors may include a vendor database a communications interface and a display generator module. The vendor database is configured to store information concerning various shipping vendors. Those shipping vendors are queried through the communications interface and the responses to the queries are displayed in a display generated by display generator module. In various embodiments of the present invention the communications interface may include various vendor specific interfaces. A system may further include a label generator module configured to generate one or more shipping labels based on information in the query responses.

Some embodiments of the present invention include computer media containing computer executable instructions for carrying out a method for real time pricing of shipping vendors The instructions provide for querying shipping vendors concerning one or more shipping specifications receiving real time price quotes and generating a display of the received real time pricing information from the one or more shipping vendors. Further some instructions may be included that provide for asynchronous queries and using vendor specific interfaces to query each shipping vendor.

The present invention includes systems and methods for real time pricing of shipping vendors. Queries based on various shipping specifications are sent to various shipping vendors. In response to the queries real time pricing information is received and a display including some or all of the information may be generated and displayed to the user. In some embodiments the queries are sent to each shipping vendor using vendor specific interfaces. Upon receiving the real time pricing information a user may designate one or more shipping vendors and shipping labels based on the shipping specifications and or pricing information for each designated shipping vendor may be generated.

User network may be a local proprietary network e.g. intranet a part of a larger wide area network a hosted network etc. For example user network may be a local area network LAN in an office. Alternatively a user network for a large organization may span multiple offices in multiple buildings in multiple locations.

User devices A C may include various computing devices workstations that allow users to communicate with various other components of system . For example user device A allow a user to view displayed information designate shipping specifications view real time pricing information and designate shipping vendors for shipping label generation etc.

A user device e.g. user device A may include a contacts manager e.g. contacts manager A . Contacts manager A may be configured to store information regarding various contacts including addresses telephone numbers e mail addresses and the like. Contacts manager A may further correlate contact information with various shipping specifications e.g. a particular address such as a contact s office may be associated with a particular courier service or particular delivery hours . Examples of contacts managers may include Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes etc. Contacts manager A may provide various types of contact information to the other components of system .

A shipping application may also be installed in user network . Described in further detail with respect to shipping application may allow user devices in user network to perform various communications and transactions with multiple shipping vendors. Shipping application may be any collection of routines that perform various system level functions and may be dynamically loaded and unloaded by hardware and device drivers as required. The modular software components described herein may also be incorporated as part of a larger software platform or integrated as part of an application specific component. In various embodiments shipping application may be installed on a server one or more user devices or the like. Shipping application allows for a user to request and obtain real time pricing information from various shipping vendors e.g. shipping vendors A C which may include FedEx United Parcel Service UPS and DHL as well as various local couriers.

Input output is configured to communicate with other elements of user network and shipping application . Input output may be configured to communicate using a network port a wireless connector an Ethernet or TCP IP standard or the like. Information communicated through input output may include for example user designation of various shipping specifications queries to shipping vendors concerning real time pricing information based on the various shipping specifications responses from the shipping vendors etc.

Vendor database is configured to store information concerning various shipping vendors. The information stored in vendor database may include vendor names vendor locations vendor specific shipping options user account information for each vendor etc. Such information may be used as a shipping specification to configure a user device for communication with a vendor or the like. In some embodiments vendor database may further include information concerning user preferences i.e. using a particular vendor for overnight shipping or using a particular vendor for international shipping default information previously designated shipping specifications and so forth.

Communications interface allows for communication with various shipping vendors. In some embodiments communications interface may use information provided by vendor database to facilitate various communications and transactions with each shipping vendor. For example past user preferences may be used to query a shipping vendor. Further in some cases obtaining real time pricing information from a particular vendor may involve using a particular format or a particular interface specific to that vendor. Communications interface may allow for communication with each shipping vendor using various vendor specific formats and vendor specific application programming interfaces APIs for each shipping vendor. For example sending a query to FedEx may involve using an interface specific to FedEx sending a query to UPS may involve using an interface specific to UPS sending a query to DHL may involve using an interface specific to DHL sending a query to a local courier may involve using an interface specific to the local courier and so forth.

Display generator provides a display of real time pricing information based on various shipping specifications from various shipping vendors. In some embodiments the display generated by display generator may be sortable by various fields such as price time of delivery etc. The generated display allows the user to compare real time pricing from multiple shipping vendors. In some embodiments the display may further include real time pricing information concerning various add on services e.g. insurance recipient acknowledgement provided by each shipping vendor graphics indicating the fastest or least expensive options graphics concerning packaging e.g. user supplied packaging etc. A user may select one or more shipping vendors from the generated display and or schedule pick up time s .

Label generator generates labels for shipment. Information for the labels may be provided by a user contacts manager A vendor database shipping vendors A C or a combination of the foregoing. For example a user may select a shipping vendor from the display generated by display generator . Label generator may then generate one or more shipping labels for the selected shipping vendor. The labels generated may further reflect shipping specifications pricing information etc.

In step a user device is configured to communicate with various shipping vendors. For example a new user device e.g. user device A may be introduced into user network e.g. user network . Such user device A may be configured by installing a shipping application e.g. shipping application using information from an application server in the user network e.g. user network etc.

In step shipping specifications are received. The shipping specifications may be provided by a contacts manager vendor database a user using a user device a combination of the foregoing etc. Such shipping specifications may include user location pick up location if different from user location vendor location recipient location and various shipping options such as time of delivery method of delivery packaging type value etc. The specifications may be received by shipping application e.g. input output of shipping application .

In step shipping vendors are queried concerning the shipping specifications. Various embodiments may include querying the shipping vendors asynchronously. Further each shipping vendor may receive a query in a format and or through an interface specific to the shipping vendor. For example sending a query to FedEx may involve using an API specific to FedEx sending a query to UPS may involve using an API specific to UPS and so forth.

In step real time shipping information is received. The shipping vendors queried may respond to the query sent in step with information concerning available delivery options e.g. two day next morning ground etc. whether the shipping vendors are able to pick up an article whether the shipping options are available pricing information concerning the shipment pricing information concerning any additional shipping options and so forth.

In step a display is generated including the real time pricing information from the shipping vendors. is an exemplary screenshot displaying query results of real time pricing of shipping vendors. In some embodiments the display includes a sortable list with various fields. For example the user may wish to sort by cost from least to most expensive. Other possible ways of sorting may include sorting by shipping vendor by pick up times by delivery times etc. In some embodiments the display will only include information concerning available services and associated pricing. For example a particular vendor may not offer overnight delivery so that vendor may not be included in the displayed list. Some embodiments may include real time pricing information from the various shipping vendors concerning various add on shipping services. Indications e.g. graphics icons colors may be used to help identify the shipping option from the shipping vendor that would be the fastest or least expensive etc.

In step a user selects a shipping vendor from the display generated in step . A user may wish to send multiple articles to multiple recipients so the user may select multiple shipping vendors. A user may select a vendor by clicking on the vendor name for example. The user may further choose various add on shipping services.

In step one or more shipping labels are generated based on user selection in step . The shipping labels are generally vendor specific so selecting FedEx for example may lead to generating a label specific to FedEx and selecting UPS may lead to generating a label specific to UPS and so forth. The shipping labels may also reflect information concerning the shipping specifications and services designated in step and or step .

While the present invention has been described in connection with a series of preferred embodiment these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. It will be further understood that the methods of the invention are not necessarily limited to the discrete steps or the order of the steps described. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

