---

title: User defined names for displaying monitored location
abstract: A user's location may be tracked by tracking a device associated with the user. The user's location may be published (e.g. on a website) using a user defined name or some other name that is not related to the coordinates of the location based on the tracked location of the device. If published to a website, the name may be uploaded to the website in a user-editable area of the website, which area may or may not be directed to tracking the location of the user. The device may also be configured to trigger reminders based on whether the device is leaving an area and/or based on whether the device is approaching a location based on the location's membership in a class of locations (e.g. approaching a grocery store).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09140552&OS=09140552&RS=09140552
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09140552
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080702
---
Tracking applications have been developed to track a user using a device carried by the user. In some of these applications the device is coupled to a global positioning system GPS circuit designed to determine the location of the device. This location information is then uploaded to a server which may be accessible by other users to determine the location of the user being tracked. The location of the user being tracked is displayed using the coordinates of the user to represent the location of the user. In some embodiments the exact location of the user may be blurred by using an inexact measure of the location however the displayed location of the tracked user is still displayed using the coordinates of the tracked user albeit using a coarser resolution.

Referring to a user s location may be displayed using information other than a coordinate based representation of the user s location. A user may be tracked by determining the location of a device carried by or otherwise associated with the user. Information on the location of the device may be provided to others using a non specific and or user defined description for the location which may be textual graphical and or take some other form. For example if the coordinates of the device correspond to those of a restaurant the location information may be displayed using a name such as at a restaurant or at dinner to describe the location of the user. The non specific names may be predefined e.g. a pre defined name associated with a location a pre defined algorithm for assigning names etc. or may be user defined. For example a user may designate the location of their house to be displayed as at home. Without more information i.e. knowing where the person s home is located a third party viewing the displayed name for the user s current location at home would not know the coordinates exact or rough of the user and or device .

The non specific name i.e. the name that does not represent coordinates in fine or coarse detail used to identify the location of the device may be posted to a website e.g. provided to a web hosting server through the website or through some other interface . In some embodiments the device may monitor its location using a location determining circuit as described below . In other embodiments a device external to device may monitor the location of device e.g. a server may be configured to calculate the position of device based on which cellular towers and or WiFi access points were accessed by device . The location data may be obtained from a GPS circuit from a beacon configured to transmit data indicative of its location from another mobile device whose location has been identified e.g. another portable computing device may have a GPS circuit and may be capable of sharing its location information with other devices in proximity to the other portable computing device based on data from a motion sensing device e.g. an accelerometer a gyro etc. and or some other location providing circuit device.

No matter how the location of device is determined device may be configured to receive data indicative of its location either from the location determining circuit or the external device and convert that location information to a non specific and or user defined name that is representative of that location. Device may then publish the name representing the location e.g. to other devices to a website etc. . In other embodiments device and or external device may provide coordinate based and or other location information to a server or some other device and the server or other device may convert the location information it receives to a non specific generic and or user defined name associated with the location it is provided e.g. the server may convert coordinate based location information and or location information embodied by a first generic name to a second generic name which second generic name will be published by the server .

In some embodiments the name representing the location information may be posted to a website such as a social networking website. In these cases the name may be posted to a generic field on the website e.g. a field that is not dedicated to displaying location information a field that allows the user to enter free form text etc. . The device may be configured to automatically access the website using the user s access information and post the name associated with the current location of device on the website. In other embodiments the name associated with the location may be used to fill in fields for applications e.g. an instant messaging application running on the device .

If the names are user defined the user may associate more than one name with a particular location. For example the user may want to provide one generic name to one set of people e.g. by posting it to one website while providing a different generic name to other users e.g. by posting it to a different website . As another example a user may want to provide different names for the location on different days at different times of the day and or as a result of other criteria. The system e.g. device server etc. that associates the identified location with the name assigned to the location may be configured to determine which name to publish based on any number of criteria monitored by the system and or based on user inputs e.g. in response to a prompt .

Referring to a method which may be implemented by an application of device server and or some other device is described for providing generalized non specific location information. In some embodiments all or most of the steps of the method are implemented entirely by an application running on one device e.g. device server or device . But in some embodiments more than one of device server and device may implement applications which when used in combination combine to implement the method.

In some embodiments the method may involve receiving a user input at block to create a user defined name that is associated with a particular location. For example a user may pick names that have meaning to them but which do not give away the specific location without more information i.e. generic names . The name may be descriptive e.g. at the gym or may be non descriptive e.g. a number unrelated to the location but which the user can correlate to the location . In some embodiments the user defined name may be selected from a limited set e.g. which a user chooses from a list such as a drop down list of names e.g. home school work gym grocery store friend s etc. . In other embodiments the user defined name may be free form such that a user may enter any name that a user desires to enter e.g. pumping iron for a gym bored to tears for school home for home etc. . If a user defined name is free form i.e. the user can enter any text such as text of any length any text of a certain length a predefined text followed by a free form text etc. the user defined name may be non specific such that it does not signify the actual location without more information or may be as specific as a user desires e.g. a user may provide the name Chicago when in Chicago and Milwaukee when in Milwaukee . In some embodiments the user defined name may comprise a graphical image e.g an icon representing a location e.g. a picture of a house for at home a picture of a schoolhouse for at school etc. either alone or along with a textual user defined name and or a user defined name in some other visual format. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the user defined name may be entered stored and or provided in a format other than or along with a visual format e.g. an audible format .

The user input may be received on a user input device of the mobile computing device a user input device of some other device e.g. a user input device of a computer that synchronizes with the mobile computing device a user input device that interfaces with a server which sends pushes makes accessible etc. information to the mobile computing device etc. some other user input device and or any combination of user input devices.

In some embodiments the user input received at block may be directed to the purpose of creating user defined names for publishing the location of the mobile computing device e.g. may be entered as part of an application that is configured to correlate and or publish user defined names to represent the location of the device . For example the user may provide an input which is received at block to indicate that the current location of the device should be assigned a particular name. As another example a user may be able to assign names to locations other than the current location of the device . For instance the user may input addresses and assign names to those addresses may assign names to coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude e.g. coordinates relevant to a geo caching website the user may select a location on a map e.g. using a graphical user interface and assign a name to that location and or may provide an input in some other manner to assign names to the locations.

In some embodiments the user input received at block may be part of another application which receives both user defined names and locations but which has a primary purpose other than creating user defined names for locations for publishing the users location. For example the device or server may include a contacts application . The user provides contact information for a contact in the contacts application which contact information may include location information for the contact. An application may analyze the contact information received in the contact application to create user defined names. The user defined name may be based on information contained in each contact e.g. at Joe Smith or at Joe s House or may be based on data associated with the contact e.g. if the contact is grouped with other contacts the user defined name may be set to the name chosen for the group such as with family or at friend s house or at client s location or at supplier s facility .

In some embodiments generic and or user defined names e.g. generic user defined names may be received from a file provided to e.g. downloaded by device and or server e.g. actively downloaded by the user sent to the user by another user from their device etc. . The file may contain general generic names or may contain user defined names created on a different device e.g. device server etc. and transferred to device and or e.g. from server to device .

The name defined may also be based on various criteria other than and or in addition to location i.e. non location criteria such as speed and or devices connected to device . For example if it is determined that a user is traveling above a normal speed of movement a generic name may be set as traveling. As another example if a user is connected to a docking station at the user s home or a desktop computer at the user s home the location may be set to at home. As still another example if device is connected to a car system e.g. a Bluetooth phone system in a user s car the name may be set as in car or traveling. As still another example various characteristics of a user e.g. speed heart rate etc. being monitored by device either directly or receiving data indirectly may be used to identify that a user is exercising which may be used to set the name provided.

In some embodiments a generic name may be chosen which is based on point of interest information stored in a database. For example a navigation application may include a database of information on points of interest. As another example the Internet may include various information relating to points of interest. The information relating to the points of interest may be received and a generic name may be created based on this information. For instance if the point of interest is a restaurant a generic name such as eating or out to dinner may be created.

The location may be defined in any manner. For example the location may be defined as a point e.g. an address coordinates etc. as an area e.g. an area defined by a route such as a train route taken to work which area may be allowed to have a regular e.g. circular rectangular etc. or irregular shape e.g. a user drawn shape .

The name may be received and associated with a location that is provided in a location format other than that used by the analysis step . If so the format of the location information with which the name is associated may be translated to a location format that is operated on by the application in the analysis step . For example in some embodiments the location may be entered as an address as a selection of a point on a map as a button press indicating that the current location should be chosen etc. In some embodiments the analysis step may involve analyzing location based on a grid e.g. based on latitude and longitude and or other coordinates . In these embodiments the location associated with the user defined name may be converted from the format in which it was entered e.g. map address etc. to the format used by the application performing the comparison e.g. coordinates .

The received location name and its association with a location e.g. a converted location may be stored in a memory e.g. as a file as part of a software program etc. such as memory of device a memory of a server a memory of device and or some other memory. Data indicative of the association i.e. data showing providing a basis to show and or suggesting the association may be stored in any form e.g. as a data file along with the name data separate from the name data in an index in a table and or in some other form . The data for the location associated with the name can also be saved in any form e.g. in a data file that includes coordinates in a data file that includes a range in a data file that defines a boundary in software hard coded in a combination of software and a data file such as a data file that represents a location point along with software that automatically creates a boundary around the point and or may be saved in some other form . In some of these and other embodiments some or all of the names may be hard coded by circuit components.

In operation an application determines at block whether location information e.g. tracking information is to be provided. Location information may be provided continuously may be provided periodically may be provided in response to a prompt such as a user input or a request from another device for location information may be provided in response to monitored conditions e.g. time of day location etc. may be provide in response to an event e.g. receipt of a text or other message etc. Additionally or alternatively determining whether location information is to be provided at block may be controlled by any number of other criteria such as conditions monitored by or relating to the mobile computing device . For example various criteria related to the mobile computing device e.g. speed and direction may be monitored to determine whether the mobile computing device is at a location or is merely passing near a location.

If the device is tracked periodically in some embodiments the period may be at least i.e. the period may be this or more than this amount about 1 3 5 10 20 40 60 90 and or 120 minutes. In some embodiments the period may be user definable and or may be user definable to be set at least one and or at least a plurality of period s which is are at least about 3 5 10 20 40 60 90 and or 120 minutes and or up to about 240 180 120 90 60 30 and or 15 minutes.

If location information is to be provided at block then a current location of the mobile computing device is received at block . The current location may be received from a location determining circuit of device . Various types of location determining circuits suitable for obtaining a current location are discussed below. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments the current location of device may be determined by a device separate from device e.g. a server that determines location based on the cell towers WiFi access points and or other wireless access point to which the mobile computing device is connected . The current location may be retained and used by the device which determined the current location or may be sent to another device e.g. may be obtained by device and sent to server may be obtained by server and sent to device may be obtained by a first server and sent to a second server etc. . In some embodiments the current location may be accurate within at least 10 km 5 km 1 km 740 m 500 m 250 m 100 m 50 m 25 m 10 m 5 m and or 1 m. However in some embodiments including some of these embodiments the current location received at block and operated on later in the method e.g. at block may not need to be highly accurate the location data received may not need to be provided at a high degree of specificity. In some embodiments at least some of the location data received by and operated on may not have an accuracy of with high confidence closer than 1 m 5 m 10 m 25 m 50 m 100 m 200 m 400 m 600 m 800 m 1 km and or 2 km e.g. if the system operates on a rough calculation obtained from the location determining circuit before the location determining circuit was capable of providing a highly accurate reading . In some embodiments the specificity required may be user selectable.

Once the current location of the mobile computing device is received at block the current location may be analyzed with respect to e.g. compared to the locations associated with the names stored in the memory. The analysis may include a comparison of the current location to an area defined by the stored association may involve determining the distance from the current location to the location stored may involve determining a speed and or direction of movement of the mobile computing device e.g. to determine whether the mobile computing device is stopping at the location or merely passing by and or may involve analysis of any number of other criteria. Any of these criteria may be used to determine whether the current location of the mobile computing device is associated with a name stored in memory e.g. generic user defined name . For any of these criteria that are evaluated e.g. distance between a location stored in memory and the current location the value used when evaluating the criteria e.g. how close the current location needs to be to the stored location may be user definable and or may be defined based on the values of other monitored criteria.

If there is no match at block the application may return to block to start the back at the step of determining whether the current location of the device should be published. Alternatively if there is no match the application may proceed along path to block to set a location name. For example the current location may be set to be represented by a default name e.g. out around unknown none of your business etc. when the current location does not match a location stored in the memory. As another example the current location may be set to be represented by a blank entry e.g. a blank name may be published a command to clear the last name published may be sent etc. when the current location does not match a location stored in the memory e.g. to remove a location name previously published which is no longer the current location of the device .

If there is a match from the comparison at block the system proceeds to block to determine whether more than one name is associated with the current location. This may occur if two locations are located in proximity to each other or have overlapping areas. This may also occur if a user has defined more than one name for a particular location. For example a user might set the application to post the location of device to multiple sites e.g. multiple websites a website and an application on device etc. that are intended for different audiences and might choose to post different names to describe the location to the different sites. As another example a user may wish to describe the same place by different names depending on the user s mood or some other criteria e.g. time of day .

If more than one name is associated with a location at block the method proceeds at path to block to determine which name to publish. Determining which name to publish at block may involve determining which of the multiple locations in proximity to the current location is closest to the current location may involve prompting the user to select a name may involve determining the site to which the name will be published may involve a hierarchy such that certain names receive priority over others may involve analyzing user preferences e.g. stored in a file etc. The name determined at block may be determined based on monitored criteria other than location. For example the name determined at block may be based on time and date information such as day of the week time of day etc. e.g. if the device is in proximity to a restaurant and the time of day is in the evening the name chosen may be at dinner whereas if the time of day were around noon the name chosen may be at lunch .

Once the name to provide has been determined at block or if only one name is associated with the location at block so proceeds along path the name to be used to represent the current location is set at block . A name that is set at block may then be provided at block . In some embodiments providing location information at block may include providing the location information to an application which uses the information wholly within the device being tracked e.g. a journaling application that does not regularly publish information . In some embodiments providing information at block may include publishing the name e.g. provide the name directly to or in a manner reviewable by devices other than the device being tracked . Examples of devices to which the name representing the location may be published include providing the location name to other mobile computing devices providing the location name to a display separate from and not controlled directly by the device providing the location information to a server which server may publish the information to other devices e.g. by providing the location information on an Internet website and or other network accessible site . If sent directly to other mobile devices the other mobile devices and or device may be configured to implement an application designed to track one or more other devices based on generic or user defined names and or based on coordinate based location data .

Publishing may involve sending the name directly to another device may involve posting the location on a website may involve providing the name in another application which makes the name viewable by other devices e.g. in a field of an instant messaging IM application such as a field available for describing the user of the IM application viewable by at least some of those with whom the IM session is established and or may involve some other type of publishing. One device may publish to another device by sending a message e.g. a mobile device and or a phone messaging message such as a text message e.g. an SMS message an MMS message etc. by using an interface such as an application programming interface API like a representational state transfer REST API and or by some other method.

If the name representative of the current location is published on a website or used in an application or published in some other manner the name may be posted in a field dedicated to tracking users or may be posted in a field that is not designed for and or dedicated to tracking users. For example the name may be posted on a website or in a GUI of an application in a field that is open to receipt of text which field may be used for purposes other than tracking a user. For websites with text fields a user may allow the application to post the location name associated with the current location of device in the text field automatically e.g. continuously based on criteria other than those discussed above such as time of day a user flag set to turn the feature on a response from a user to a prompt regarding whether to publish the location etc. .

If more than one name is to be published e.g. if different location names are provided to different receiving devices the method may return to block along line to determine and set a new location name which is then published .

The recipient e.g. recipient device such as a recipient mobile device or recipient server of a website recipient person etc. receiving the published name for the location of device may then display the name it receives. The name may be displayed in a field dedicated to displaying location information may be displayed in a field directed to providing general information about a user of the device may be displayed in a text addressable field and or may be displayed in some other manner.

If the information to be published will be published to a website or some other server based system at block the method may involve receiving access information from a user at block such that the device s having the application s implementing the method may automatically access the server receiving the information. The access information provided at block may include information such as a user login a user password a link to the website website interface access information an identification of a field on the website where the location name should be entered an indication of where to upload information to the server etc. The access information provided at block may be provided in its entirety at block or the information provided at block may be supplemented at block by stored generic profiles that store access information for one a plurality and or a multiplicity of servers e.g. websites . The generic access profiles provided at block may be stored in a memory of the device implementing the method e.g. memory of device may be downloaded from the server or device to which the name will be published may be downloaded from a server other than the one to which the name will be published and or may be provided from some other source. The generic access profiles provided at block may be used to supplement the information provided at block may be used to direct the type of information received at block may be used to control the type of information requested from a user to be received at block etc.

Referring to a device and or other system may be configured to implement a journaling application . Journaling application may be configured to receive the user defined generic names and automatically enter information in a journal based on these names. In other embodiments journaling application may not enter the information in a journal but may consolidate and or otherwise make this information available to a user so that the user can consult this location information history when making journal entries. Journaling application may also gather information from any number of other applications such as an imaging application e.g. collecting images associated with what the user did a calendar application e.g. showing meetings a user had scheduled a notes application e.g. to show what files a user worked with a task application e.g. to show what tasks were entered and or completed a phone application e.g. to show who a user talked with and or for how long a messaging application e.g. to show who a user messaged that day and or some other application. Like the location information journaling application may be configured to enter the information from these other applications in a journal may be configured to enter information from only a subset of these applications in a journal may not be configured to enter the information from one or more of these applications in a journal but be configured to make this information available to a user so that the user can consult this information when making journal entries etc.

Referring to a device may be configured to implement a task application and or a note application based on location information obtained from a location application . For example the application may be configured to allow a user to associate an entry note task etc. with a location. When location application provides a current location that approaches that location the application may be configured to prompt a user which may be visual audible tactile and or may take some other form e.g. with an alarm by displaying the note or task by vibrating etc. . In one advantageous embodiment the application may be configured to prompt a user based on a determination that device is leaving the location. For example a user may have a set of notes and or tasks set to be displayed to the user as the user leaves their work their house school etc. In this way a user may set reminders to be played when most likely to be acted on by the user. Whether device is leaving a location may be judged by one or more of any number of criteria in addition to location such as the direction device is traveling whether device crossed one or more boundaries around the location e.g. a pre drawn boundary a radius from a specific location etc. and or other criteria.

The location for a reminder either approaching or leaving may be set as a specific location e.g. a specific address or may be set to a general location e.g. a grocery list may be set to provide a reminder at a grocery store or Company X grocery store such that when the device approaches any grocery store meeting the criteria the device will provide a reminder to the user . The device may have a list of types of locations may store a list of locations that a user frequents and then use the locations from that list to determine whether the location criteria is satisfied may access information from a server e.g. website may access information over the Internet may access information stored on a device with which the device communicates and or may obtain the information from any other source.

Additionally the location may be a moving location. For example a user may set the location as a reminder to buy ice cream if they become in proximity to an ice cream truck. As another example the user may set a reminder that provides notes about something the user is supposed to discuss with another person whose location is being monitored e.g. through a device carried by that person . Here the first party s device may have a reminder that includes information relating to the second party e.g. ask employee if he s filled out a particular report the second party may carry a mobile device or other location providing device that broadcasts its location to the first party s mobile device either directly or indirectly such as by way of a server and the first party s device may determine that the second party is nearing the first party and so the device provides a notification which may include the information from the reminder.

The location for the reminder may be set based on data provided from a contacts application a calendar application and or some other application. The location for a task or note may be defined by non specific and or user defined names associated by the user with a particular location.

The notes or tasks associated with the location may be set on the device running the application by the user of the device on a device other than the device implementing the application and or by a third party.

In some embodiments the task and or note application runs on the device being tracked. In other embodiments the applications may run on a server which receives information relating to the location of the device being tracked. In these embodiments the server may be configured to send data to the device when the criteria for the note and or task is met.

Referring to a user inputs and a system receives a task at block . The information inputted by the user may include a description of the task information related to completion of the task e.g. a location where the task can be completed a name of a store where to complete the task a class e.g. grocery store of places where the task can be completed etc. . The system for inputting tasks may be arranged such that a user can group tasks with a common location e.g. using a task tree or other mechanism for grouping tasks .

In some embodiments tasks may be automatically input by a system and received by the system implementing the method of . For example a user s device may have a data link with another system e.g. a car and the other system may be configured to input tasks in the device based on monitored criteria of the other system e.g. input a need gas task when the car is running low on gas .

In some embodiments a user may input a location for completing the task when the task is entered. Alternatively or additionally the system may be configured to receive task information and identify locations for completing the task based on the nature of the task. For example the system may interpret a task list entry pick up milk as being completed at a grocery store and or a convenience store.

In some embodiments a task list may be shared between multiple people. For example a task can be input by another system based on a task input by a user on a different task list. The input task information may be provided at block and entered in to the task database at block .

In some embodiments a task may be sent to a first user e.g. by a device or system of the first user to a second user e.g. to a device or system of the second user . The first user may send the task information by inputting it into a server by sending a message e.g. an e mail message a text message an SMS message etc. by synching a program and or by some other means. The task may be received at block e.g. obtained opened saved accepted etc. and entered into the task database at block for the second user. The tasks at block may contain any of the information discussed above for a task entered at block .

The task information may be used to populate a task database at block which may include one or more of task information location information associated with the task information user preference information associated with the task information and or other information.

In some embodiments the method involves pre loading location information at block based on the information in the task database at block e.g. based on and or in response to the tasks entered at block . Pre loading information may include downloading location information e.g. coordinate information where a user can complete the task. The pre loaded information may be limited based on user preferences stored at block may be limited based on user tendencies e.g. the system may look for locations along the path commonly taken by the user which may be manually entered by the user may be passively observed by the system may be saved in a file etc. may be limited based on availability e.g. based on what stores might be open at a particular time for a task to be completed and or may be limited based on other information.

User preferences at block may be based on a user input indicative of the preferences based on responses to questions indicative of preferences based on monitoring other applications and or other information associated with the user and or based on other sources of information relating to preferences. For example a user s device may be monitored for logging on to a particular bank s website. By accessing that website a system might presume that it is likely that a user has an account at that bank. If a task is pick up cash cash check and or some other banking task then the system may be designed to guide a user to a banking location bank ATM etc. associated with that bank.

In some embodiments the information may be pre loaded to a device when a task is entered and or may be pre loaded during selected periods. The selected periods may include while a mobile device has externally supplied power may include while a mobile device is not being used for other purposes may include specific times of day may include in response to a user input to pre load information etc. The pre loaded information may be obtained from a database local to the system may be obtained from a database maintained on a server may be received by scanning multiple different databases may be obtained from a database over a network such as the Internet and or may be obtained from some other source.

A system may be configured to receive a current location of a device associated with the user at block . The location information may be obtained in any of the manners discussed above or below e.g. by monitoring a GPS unit of a mobile device associated with the user by noting the locations of wireless access points accessed by a device by receiving location information sent by a device associated with the location of the user that communicates with the system running the task location program etc. .

The system is configured to identify locations in proximity to the user capable of completing the task at block . Identifying locations in proximity to the user for completing the task may include comparing current location of the user with the pre loaded location data stored in the task database at block . Alternatively or additionally the current location of the user may be used to query at block a database or other information source for locations capable of completing the task. The locations retrieved at block may be limited in any one or more of the manners discussed above for block . The locations retrieved at block whether retrieved initially or based on pre loaded data may also be limited based on the current location direction speed and or other criteria related to the device. In some embodiment the system may be configured to identify locations farther ahead of the user in the direction that the user is traveling when the user is traveling at high speeds in order to give the user time to choose the location. In some embodiments the system may be configured to not retrieve and or notify see block a user of a location for completing a task if the user is traveling above a threshold fixed or variable speed and or based on other criteria such as road work in the vicinity of the user traffic conditions in proximity to the user user preferences the complexity of the route of the user etc .

Once locations are identified a user may be notified at block of their proximity to a location where a task can be completed. The notification may be audible a tone such as a user settable tone a text to speech module that speaks the name of a location etc. tactile e.g. vibration and or visual e.g. a flashing light such as a flashing LED an image on a graphical user display such as an icon a map showing a location where the task can be completed user controllable options such as to route to the location and or some other visual notification . The notification at block may also be implemented as a message e.g. an e mail SMS or text message and or may be implemented on a separate device e.g. played through a speaker mounted in a vehicle .

Once a user is notified the system may wait for an input e.g. a user input to clear the alarm a user entering an identified location to clear the alarm a user input to route to the location a user input to display alternative locations etc. . If an input is received to display multiple locations in proximity to the user for completing the task the system may be configured to display multiple options at block and allow a user to input a selection of a particular location at block . A user may also input a request to route to the displayed and or selected location so the system may be configured to generate one or more routes to the selected location at block discussed below.

In addition to monitoring for proximity to locations for completing tasks the system may also be configured to provide a route to a location for completing a task in response to receiving a request for a route from a user from another application on the system from another system etc. at block . The route may be designed to head to locations to complete all tasks along line and or a user may be allowed along line to select a subset e.g a single or group of tasks of tasks at block .

Once the tasks to be completed are identified one or more locations associated with each task may be obtained at block which block may operate in any of the manners discussed above for block including identifying locations based on pre loaded location information.

The locations identified at block are used to generate one or more routes at block . In some embodiments generating a route at block may include accessing stored route and or preference information from a user to identify common routes and or route preferences. In some embodiments generating a route at block may include displaying multiple location options to a user singularly and or grouped and allowing a user to select individual locations. In some of these embodiments information in addition to the location e.g. the amount of time each location would add to the route may be displayed along with the different locations. In some embodiments generating a route at block may include prompting a user for an input e.g. if they want to use the highway get the most use of the highway get the least use of the highway avoid tolls take a scenic route avoid construction avoid traffic etc. . In some embodiments the system may be configured to generate a route at block based on traffic information e.g. currently monitored traffic information historical traffic information for a location at a given time and or any other information e.g. time of day common routes of a user traffic light patterns etc. . In some embodiments generating a route at block may include generating the route based on the operating hours e.g. based on a database such as a website associated with the location and or an information gathering source of the locations identified and or selected for completing the task e.g. to give a user the best opportunity to go to each of the locations during the location s operating hours .

If more than one route is generated at block a user may be allowed to select a desired route at block . The generated and or selected route is then displayed at block . Displaying a route at block may be include displaying the route on the system creating the route and or transferring the route to another system e.g. wirelessly over a point to point local area and or wide area network which system may display the route.

In many embodiments the tasks received at block may include deadlines in addition to other information. In some embodiments the deadline associated with the task may be used to control the displayed location s for completing the task. For example proximity to the current location needed to identify a location associated with a task at block or may become less proximate as the time e.g. date gets closer to the deadline. In many embodiments the system may be configured to notify a user at block based on an approaching deadline as well as being in proximity to a location to complete a task.

In some embodiments where a specific location or class of locations e.g. grocery store hardware store swimming pool etc. one or more of pre loading at identifying at and identifying at may be implemented based on the location e.g. class of locations entered with task on similar locations e.g. if a particular grocery store is entered the system may load and or identify other locations for completing the task and or related locations e.g. other stores belonging to the same chain of stores as a store identified .

Any of the steps described in may be implemented in a mobile device associated with a user e.g. by a processing circuit such as a microprocessor configured to implement the method in a server system e.g. in one or more processing circuits of one or more servers which may or may not be located in a common location that is are configured to implement the method and or on some other device . In some embodiments the method is implemented primarily in a mobile device e.g. all or any of the steps are implemented by the mobile device although some steps may be implemented in another device associated with the user. In some embodiments the method is implemented primarily in a server system . In some embodiments the method is implemented primarily in a combination of a mobile device associated with the user and a server system . In many embodiments the current location of the user is obtained at block by a location determining circuit associated with e.g. built in the mobile device . In some embodiments the current location at block is obtained based on a wireless network e.g. cell or WiFi network accessed by the mobile device.

Referring back to portable device may be a mobile computing device capable of executing software programs. The device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with portable device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example portable device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player camera pager messaging device data communication device and so forth.

Processing circuit of hand held device may include one or more of a microprocessor second microprocessor image processing circuit display driver a memory e.g. non volatile memory NVM controller audio driver e.g. D A converter A D converter an audio coder and or decoder codec amplifier etc. and other processing circuits. Processing circuit can include various types of processing circuitry digital and or analog and may include one or more of a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA or other circuitry configured to perform various input output control analysis and other functions. In various embodiments the processing circuit may include a central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Processing circuit may include or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a microprocessor such as a complex instruction set computer CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor and or a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor a processor implementing a combination of instruction sets a controller a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

Processing circuit may be configured to digitize data to filter data to analyze data to combine data to output command signals and or to process data in some other manner. Processing circuit may be configured to perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption etc. Processing circuit e.g. an applications microprocessor may be configured to execute various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device .

Processing circuit may also include a memory that stores data. Processing circuit may include only one of a type of component e.g. one microprocessor or may contain multiple components of that type e.g. multiple microprocessors . Processing circuit could be composed of a plurality of separate circuits and discrete circuit elements. In some embodiments processing circuit will essentially comprise solid state electronic components such as a microprocessor e.g. microcontroller . Processing circuit may be mounted on a single board in a single location or may be spread throughout multiple locations which cooperate to act as processing circuit . In some embodiments processing circuit may be located in a single location e.g. in proximity and or on a common circuit carrying element such as a circuit board and or all the components of processing circuit will be closely connected.

Components shown as part of a single processing circuit in the figures may be parts of separate processing circuits in various embodiments covered by the claims unless limited by the claim to a single processing circuit e.g. location circuit may be part of a separate assembly having a separate microprocessor that interfaces with processing circuit through data port .

Hand held device may also include a network transceiver . Transceiver may operate using one or more of a LAN standard a WLAN standard a Bluetooth standard a Wi Fi standard an Ethernet standard and or some other standard. Network transceiver may be a wireless transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver and or a wireless Ethernet transceiver. Wireless transceiver may operate using an IEEE 802.11 standard. Hand held device may also include an external device connector such as a serial data port for transferring data. External device connector may also serve as the connector to an external power supply. Hand held device may contain more than one of each of transceiver and external device connector . For example network transceiver may include both a Bluetooth and an IEEE 802.11 transceiver.

Network transceiver may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants sometimes referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants sometimes referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

Hand held device may be capable of operating as a mobile phone. The mobile phone may use transceiver and or may use a cellular transceiver . Cellular transceiver may be configured to operate as an analog transceiver a digital transceiver e.g. a GSM transceiver a TDMA transceiver a CDMA transceiver or some other type of transceiver. Cellular transceiver may be configured to transfer data such as image files and may be used to access the Internet in addition to allowing voice communication. Cellular transceiver may be configured to use one or more of an EV technology e.g. EV DO EV DV etc. an EDGE technology a WCDMA technology and or some other technology.

Transceiver may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a wireless PAN system offering data communication services includes a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR etc. as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles etc. Other examples may include systems using an infrared technique.

Cellular transceiver may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems North American Digital Cellular NADC cellular radiotelephone systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems Extended TDMA E TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS cellular radiotelephone systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS cellular radiotelephone systems compliant with the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the cellular transceiver may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

Hand held device may include one or more user input devices e.g. button switch touch screen keyboard keypad voice command circuit etc. for registering commands from a user on device . Some or all of user input devices may interface with a switch control circuit not shown configured to interpret which switches have been actuated. User input device may include an alphanumeric keyboard. The keyboard may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. A keyboard integrated into a hand held device would typically be a thumb keyboard. User input device may also include various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. Any of user input devices may be concealable behind a body e.g. a sliding body a flip out body etc. such that they are hidden when the body is in a first position and visible when the body is in the second position.

Hand held device may include one or more location determining circuits e.g. a GPS circuit and or a cell based location determining circuit configured to determine the location of device . Device may be configured to receive inputs from more than one location determining circuit . These inputs can be compared such that both are used one e.g. a cell based system can be used primarily when the other e.g. GPS is unable to provide reliable location information or can have some other functional relationship.

Device may use one or more different location determining techniques to derive the location of the device based on the data from location determining circuit .

For example device may use one or more of Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks and so forth.

Device may be arranged to operate in one or more position determination modes including for example a standalone mode a mobile station MS assisted mode and or a MS based mode. In a standalone mode such as a standalone GPS mode the mobile computing device may be arranged to autonomously determine its position without network interaction or support. When operating in an MS assisted mode or an MS based mode however device may be arranged communicate over a radio access network e.g. UMTS radio access network with a position determination entity PDE such as a location proxy server LPS and or a mobile positioning center MPC .

In an MS assisted mode such as an MS assisted AGPS mode the PDE may be arranged to determine the position of the mobile computing device. In an MS based mode such as an MS based AGPS mode device may be arranged to determine its position with only limited periodic assistance from the PDE. In various implementations device and the PDE may be arranged to communicate according a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol such as the TIA EIA standard IS 801 message protocol for MS assisted and MS based sessions in a CDMA radiotelephone system.

When assisting device the PDE may handle various processing operations and also may provide information to aid position determination. Examples of assisting information may include satellite based measurements terrestrial based measurements and or system based measurements such as satellite almanac information GPS code phase measurements ionospheric data ephemeris data time correction information altitude estimates timing offsets forward reverse link calibration and so forth.

In various implementations the assisting information provided by the PDE may improve the speed of satellite acquisition and the probability of a position fix by concentrating the search for a GPS signal and or may improve the accuracy of position determination. Each position fix or series of position fixes may be available at device and or at the PDE depending on the position determination mode. In some cases data calls may be made and assisting information may be sent to device from the PDE for every position fix. In other cases data calls may be made and assistance information may be sent periodically and or as needed.

Hand held device may include one or more audio circuits e.g. speakers microphone etc. for providing or receiving audio information to or from a user. In one example hand held device includes a first speaker designed for regular phone operation. Hand held device may also include a second speaker for louder applications such as speaker phone operation music or other audio playback e.g. an mp3 player application etc. Hand held device may also include one or more audio ports e.g. a headphone connector for output to an external speaker and or input from an external microphone. Audio circuit may be under the control of one or more audio drivers which may include D A converters and or an amplifier.

Hand held device may include a camera for taking pictures using device . Camera may include a CCD sensor a CMOS sensor or some other type of image sensor capable of obtaining an image particularly images sensors capable of obtaining an image formed as an array of pixels . The image sensor may have a resolution of at least about 65 000 pixels or at least about 1 megapixel. In some embodiments the image sensor may have a resolution of at least about 4 megapixels. Camera may also include read out electronics for reading data from the image sensor. Image processing circuit may be coupled to the camera for processing an image obtained by the camera. This image processing may include format conversion e.g. RGB to YCbCr white balancing tone correction edge correction red eye reduction compression CFA interpolation etc. Image processing circuit may be dedicated hardware that has been optimized for performing image processing.

Hand held device may include a display for displaying information to a user. Display could be one or more of an LCD display e.g. a touch sensitive color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen an electroluminescent display a carbon nanotube based display a plasma display an organic light emitting diode OLED display and some other type of display. Display may be a touch screen display such that a user may input commands by approaching e.g. touching display including touch screens that require a specialized device to input information . Display may be a color display e.g. 16 or more bit color display or may be a non color e.g. monotone display. Display may be controlled by a display driver that is under the control of a microprocessor . In some embodiments display may be used with a stylus. Display may be used as an input to a handwriting recognizer application.

Hand held device may include a dedicated memory fixed to device . Memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Dedicated memory may be a non volatile memory may be a volatile memory or may include both volatile and non volatile memories. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information. In one embodiment fixed memory is a non volatile memory.

Although the memory is shown as being separate from and external to processing circuit some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as processing circuit e.g. the same integrated circuit as microprocessor .

Hand held device may include a removable memory port configured to receive a removable memory medium and or other components. Removable memory port may also serve as an external device connector . For example removable memory port may be an SDIO card slot which can be used to receive memory cards receive cards input and or output data and combined cards having both memory and input output functions.

Memory and or memory may be arranged to store one or more software programs to be executed by processing circuit .

Dedicated memory and removable memory may be connected to and or under the control of a common memory controller such as a non volatile memory controller. Memory controller may be configured to control reading of data to and writing of data from dedicated memory and or removable memory .

Handheld device may be configured to connect to one or more servers via a network such as the Internet using one or more of network transceiver cellular transceiver and external device connector .

Hand held device may also include a power supply circuit configured to regulate power supply in hand held device . Power supply circuit may be configured to do one or more of control charging of battery to communicate the amount of power remaining in battery determine and or communicate whether an external power supply is connected switch between the external power supply and the battery etc. Battery may be a rechargeable battery and may be removable or may be fixed to device . Battery may be formed from any number of types of batteries including silver based batteries e.g. silver zinc magnesium silver chloride etc. a lithium based battery e.g. lithium ion lithium polymer etc. a nickel based battery nickel cadmium nickel metal hydride etc. zinc based batteries e.g. silver zinc carbon zinc etc. etc. External power supply connector may be configured to be connected to a direct current source an alternating current source or both DC and AC sources.

Device may have an optical viewfinder not shown may use display as a digital viewfinder may include some other type of view finder may include multiple types of view finders or may not include a view finder.

Device may be configured to connect to the Internet which may be a direct connection e.g. using cellular transceiver external device connector or network transceiver or may be an indirect connection e.g. routed through external device . Device may receive information from and or provide information to the Internet. Device may include a web browser configured to display information received from the Internet including information which may be optimized by the browser for display on portable device . Device may connect to one or more remote servers using the Internet. Device could also connect to another personal electronic device by way of the Internet.

Device may comprise an antenna system not illustrated for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. Each of the transceivers and or location circuit may include individual antennas or may include a common antenna system. The antenna system may include or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Portable device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to processing circuit . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Referring to device and or processing circuit may be configured to run any number of different types of applications. Examples of application programs may include for example a phone application e.g. a telephone application a voicemail application a VoIP application etc. a messaging application e.g. an e mail application an instant message IM application a short message service SMS application a multimedia message service MMS application a web browser application a personal setting application e.g. a personal information manager PIM application a contact management application a calendar application e.g. a calendar application a scheduling application etc. a task management application a document application e.g. a word processing application a spreadsheet application a slide application a document viewer application a database application etc. a location application e.g. a positioning application a navigation application etc. an image application e.g. a camera application such as a digital camera application and or a video camera application an image management application etc. including media player applications e.g. a video player application an audio player application a multimedia player application etc. a gaming application a handwriting recognition application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between the portable device and a user.

Device may include a location application . Location application may be configured to calculate the current position e.g. the rough current position of device based on data received from one or more location determining circuits . Location application may be provided with map information such that it can translate coordinate positions into map positions and vice versa . Location application may be configured to provide navigational information to a user such as turn by turn directions.

Device may include personal organizer applications such as a calendar application a contacts application and a task application not illustrated . Calendar application may allow a user to schedule events set alarms for events and store a wide variety of information for events e.g. name of the event location of the event other attendees of the event etc. . Contacts application may allow a user to save contact information for a contact such as phone number information which may be shared with a phone application address information group information e.g. which user created group or groups the contact belongs to and other information about the contact. The task application allows a user to keep track of pending and or completed tasks.

Device may include an internal clock application that keeps track of time information such as current time of day and or date time zone information daylight savings time information etc. Clock application may be a program running based on data from an internal clock of microprocessor data from a separate clock timing circuit or data from some other circuit.

Device may also include one or more network connection protocol applications that allow a user to transfer data over one or more networks. Network application may be configured to allow device to access a remote device such as server .

Device may include an Internet browser application that allows a user to browse the internet. The Internet browser application may be configured to alter the data received from Internet sites so that the data can be easily viewed on portable device .

Device may include a phone application configured to allow a user to make phone calls. Phone application may use contact information from contact application to place phone calls.

Device may also include one or more messaging applications that allow a user to send and or receive messages such as text messages multi media messages e mails etc. E mail messages may come from a server which may use a Push technology and or may use a pull technology e.g. POP3 IMAP etc. .

Any of the information discussed above for any of the applications e.g. applications may be added to or otherwise associated with an image file.

Referring to a hand held portable computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a smartphone includes a number of user input devices . The user input devices include a send button configured to select options appearing on display and or send messages a 5 way navigator configured to navigate through options appearing on display a power end button configured to select options appearing on display and to turn on display a phone button usable to access a phone application screen a calendar button usable to access a calendar application screen a messaging button usable to access a messaging application screen an applications button usable to access a screen showing available applications a thumb keyboard which includes a phone dial pad usable to dial during a phone application a volume button usable to adjust the volume of audio output of device a customizable button which a user may customize to perform various functions a ringer switch usable to switch the smartphone from one mode to another mode such as switching from a normal ringer mode to a meeting ringer mode and a touch screen display usable to select control options displayed on display . Touch screen display is also a color LCD display having a TFT matrix.

Smartphone also includes audio circuits . The audio circuits include phone speaker usable to listen to information in a normal phone mode external speaker louder than the phone speaker e.g. for listening to music for a speakerphone mode etc. headset jack to which a user can attach an external headset which may include a speaker and or a microphone and microphone which can be used to pick up audio information such as the user s end of a conversation during a phone call.

Smartphone also includes a status indicator that can be used to indicate the status of Smartphone such as messages pending charging low battery etc. a stylus slot for receiving a stylus such as a stylus usable to input data on touch screen display a digital camera see camera usable to capture images a mirror positioned proximate camera such that a user may view themselves in mirror when taking a picture of themselves using camera a removable battery see battery and a connector see external data connector and external power supply which can be used to connect device to either or both an external power supply such as a wall outlet or battery charger or an external device such as a personal computer a gps unit a display unit or some other external device.

Smartphone also includes an expansion slot see removable memory which may be used to receive a memory card and or a device which communicates data through slot and a SIM card slot located behind battery configured to receive a SIM card or other card that allows the user to access a cellular network.

In various embodiments device may include a housing . Housing could be any size shape and dimension. In some embodiments housing has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm.

While described with regards to a hand held device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

The various single applications discussed above may be performed by multiple applications where more than one application performs all of the functions discussed for the application or where one application only performs some of the functions discussed for the application. For example the image application may be divided into an image capturing application and a separate image viewing application. Also more than one application may be included on device that is capable of displaying images as described for image application .

Further while shown as separate applications above many of the above listed applications can be combined into single applications that perform all or some of the functions listed for more than one of the applications discussed above.

While some components in were discussed as being singular and others were discussed as being plural the invention is not limited to devices having these same numbers of each type of component. Embodiments are conceived where each combination of plural and singular components exist.

In some embodiments the various components shown in may be combined in a single component. For example in some embodiments removable memory may also be an external device connector such as an SDIO card slot which can be used to receive memory cards input and or output data and combined devices having both memory and input output functions . As another example in some embodiments a single connector could serve as both an external device connector and as a connection to an external power supply .

Also in some embodiments the function of various claim components shown in may be performed by a combination of distinct electrical components. For instance a location determining circuit may have a separate microprocessor that works in combination with the main microprocessor of the system to perform the functions of the processing circuit . As another example image processing circuit may make use of the electronics of camera to perform image processing while also having other discrete electronic components.

While the discussion above was generally directed to future tasks tasks entered more than a quarter hour prior to their contemplated completion or taking action towards completing e.g. not immediately routed to the features discussed above may be applied to any tasks including tasks not meeting the criteria for future tasks i.e. present tasks such as immediate tasks tasks to be completed or to have action taken on immediately when entered . However in most although not all contemplated embodiments the system performing the function is configured to permit any one or more of the above described functions to be carried out on future tasks.

Additionally while some discussion was made above relating to websites it is equally contemplated that the features relating to websites could be applied to any other network accessible data system e.g. some other network accessible information retrieval system such as a network accessible database system .

