---

title: Structure for storing and unfurling a flexible material
abstract: Flexible and resilient masts are connected by flexible and resilient inner and outer spars, and flexible cords radially connect the spars. A flexible material is attached to the cords. The assembly is wrapped around a rotatable cylindrical drum in the structure's stored configuration. Each mast is flexible only about an axis lying parallel to the axis of rotation of the drum, and is otherwise rigid. Each mast is linear when extended and has a bending stress when deformed into a non-linear configuration, such as when wrapped around the drum. When the structure is in its stored configuration, a restraining device opposes the bending stress and another prevents the drum from rotating. Upon disengagement of the restraining devices, the stored bending strain energy forces the drum to rotate and the masts to extend into the deployed configuration and thereby unfurl the flexible material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356774&OS=08356774&RS=08356774
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08356774
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080421
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United. States under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

This invention relates to the field of deployable structures. More particularly flexible and resilient masts are wrapped around a rotatable cylindrical drum for storage and are allowed to linearly extend tangentially to the drum by disengaging restraints and transmitting the bending stress of the wrapped masts to the drum. The bending stress forces the rotation of the drum and attendant to the deployment of the masts unfurls flexible material attached to radially disposed cords that are fastened to spars that in turn connect the masts.

Modern spacecraft include subsystems that take up minimal space when stored and then can be easily deployed into an operational configuration when the spacecraft achieves orbit or otherwise escapes the earth s atmosphere. Examples of such a subsystem include an antenna solar power array radiator communications reflector radar aperture sun shade and solar sail. In addition to the aforementioned prerequisites of easy deployment and small size when in its stored or collapsed configuration such a subsystem must have an efficient mass and deploy into the desired shape with high reliability.

A wide variety of large deployable structures have been used on spacecraft in conjunction with the aforementioned subsystems. In the late 1970 s and 1980 s the wrap rib antenna disclosed by Wada B. K. Freeland R. E. and Woods A. A. Development of the Structural Technology of a Large Deployable Antenna 13 Tokyo Japan pp. 395 400 Jun. 28 Jul. 3 1982 utilized deployable ribs to support a large mesh antenna. Other lightweight deployable structures suited for spacecraft include the flexible solar array disclosed by Olsen M Flexible Solar Array Mechanism 7 NASA TMX 58103 pp. 233 249 September 1972 and flown in 1971 and the L Garde inflatable decoys from the 1970 s and 1980 s and the L Garde inflatable antenna experiment in the 1990 s disclosed by Cheielewski A. Overview of Gossamer Structures Edited by C. H. M. Jenkins Vol. 191 Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics AIAA Virginia pp. 1 33 2001 . Some of the most reliable have been tubular booms and coilable masts such as those shown by Pelligrino S. Large Retractable Appendages in Spacecraft Vol. 32 No. 6 November December 1995 .

Due to their relatively large dimensions and structural requirements solar sails comprise an exclusive class of deployable space structures. Typical solar sail structures rely on tension only members in order to minimize their mass for example suspending a highly flexible membrane film between cables as disclosed by Murphy D. Validation of a Scalable Solar Sailcraft System Vol. 44 No. 4 July August 2007 Leipold M. et al. ODISSEE A Proposal for Demonstration of a Solar Sail in Earth Orbit Braunschweig Germany 245 254 Nov. 4 6 1998 and Lichodziejewski D. et al. Bringing an Effective Solar Sail Design Toward TRL 6 39 MAA 2003 4659 Huntsville Ala. Jul. 20 23 2003 . Each of the aforementioned designs has successfully deployed a membrane film into the desired final configuration.

The advantage of the present invention is its enhanced reliability to achieve the final deployed configuration. This reliability is attributed to the absence of kinematic joints and the continual application of tensile forces throughout the structure during deployment.

Briefly the present invention is a structure for storing and deploying a flexible material such as a membrane comprising a solar sail. A plurality of flexible and resilient masts are wrapped around a rotatable cylindrical drum. Each mast is flexible only about an axis lying parallel to the axis of rotation of the drum and is otherwise rigid. Each of the masts is linear when extended and has a bending stress when deformed into a non linear configuration such as when wrapped around the drum. When the invented structure is in its collapsed or stored configuration rollers and arms apply a frictional force to the masts equal to and opposing the bending stress and a restraining device prevents the drum from rotating.

When the restraining device is disengaged and the opposing force decreased the bending stress forces the drum to rotate and the masts to extend into the deployed configuration. The rollers also constrain each mast to extend linearly on a tangent to the cylindrical drum surface at an equally spaced interval from one another until the each mast is fully extended and the masts collectively form their deployed configuration. In both their collapsed and deployed configurations the masts lie in a plane normal to the drum s axis of rotation. An outer spar connects the tips of the masts while an inner spar connects the masts at mast locations lying closer to the drum. Both spars are flexible resilient and in tension during the interim stages of deployment as well as when the masts are fully deployed.

Flexible cords extend radially to connect the proximal and distal spars when the masts are deployed. The cords are in tension. A flexible material such as a membrane is attached to the cords.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the following drawings and illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

Turning to the drawings comprise a sequential series of schematic drawings showing the same top plan view of structure an embodiment of the present invention wherein initially shows structure in its collapsed or stored configuration followed by the interim stages of deployment shown in C and D until full deployment is finally realized in . A perspective view of structure in its collapsed configuration corresponding to is shown in . A perspective view of structure in the partial stage of deployment schematically shown in is illustrated in . Similarly shows a perspective view of structure in the partial stage of deployment schematically shown in is perspective view of structure corresponding to and is a perspective view of structure fully deployed corresponding to .

Structure includes cylindrical drum having axis of rotation about which it may rotate. Axis of rotation is collinear with the axis of revolution of drum . As most clearly shown the fully deployed configuration pictured in structure is further comprised of masts inner spar outer spar radial cords and flexible material . Mast is comprised of proximal segment and distal end . Proximal segment is attached to drum . Outer spar circumscribes drum and connects distal ends . Outer spar is attached to distal ends by joints .

Inner spar also circumscribes drum and lies closer to drum that outer spar . Inner spar connects masts at locations lying in between proximal segments and distal ends respectively. Cords extend radially with respect to axis of rotation and connect inner spar and outer spar . Flexible material is attached to cords .

Mast is resilient and flexible about an axis parallel to axis of rotation and a bending stress is created in mast when it is deformed from a linear configuration about the aforementioned axis. It is rigid about other axes. In the collapsed configuration shown in masts are wrapped around drum . Thus a bending stress arises in masts when they are in the aforementioned collapsed configuration. A restraint not shown prevents the rotation of drum by opposing the bending stress. The restraint may be any mechanism commonly used to prevent rotation of a cylindrical object.

As particularly shown in rollers and arms are in lateral and frictional contact with each mast . They perform several functions when the restraint acting on drum is disengaged to allow drum freedom of rotation. Firstly they oppose the bending stress and transfer this strain energy to drum causing it to rotate in a counterclockwise direction and thereby allow masts to extend. The initial stage of extension and deployment is shown in . Secondly the frictional resistance of rollers and arms is adjustable to control the rate at which masts extend. Furthermore rollers laterally constrain masts to provide equal spacing between adjacent masts in the fully deployed configuration. Inner spar outer spar and cords are in tension during this and subsequent stages of deployment.

The relationship between masts rollers arms and drum is also illustrated in which shows apparatus in the same degree of partial deployment as but with inner spar outer spar radial cords and flexible material deleted in order to facilitate understanding. and corresponding show further deployment and extension of masts . and corresponding illustrate the stage of deployment just before the complete deployment shown in is realized.

Inner spar outer spar and cords remain in tension when the complete deployment of masts and structure is realized. The choice of material depends upon the function of structure . For example if structure was to be stored on a spacecraft for subsequent deployment as a solar sail material would be a thin membrane for reflecting the impact of photons and thereby providing a propulsive force.

As is clear from the foregoing description the present invention uses no hinges or springs to assist in deploying material . Only the strain energy stored in wrapping masts around drum is used to deploy the structure into the desired configuration. Thus the present invention realizes the attendant benefits of enhanced reliability improved mass efficiency and minimizes the space required for storage.

It is to be understood that the preceding is merely a detailed description of an embodiment of this invention and that numerous changes to the disclosed embodiment may be made in accordance with the disclosure herein without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. The preceding description therefore is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined only by the appended claims and their equivalents.

