---

title: Device for the safe handling of nonhuman primates
abstract: A device for the safe handling of nonhuman primates includes a transparent elongated body having a top end and a bottom end. A ventilated lid is attached to the top end of the body by means of a hinge and includes a positive locking arrangement. The bottom end of the body is removably connected to a base which has first and second springs attached thereto. The body includes a plurality of apertures into which are positioned a plurality of inserts. Inserts proximate the bottom of the body include projections which are positioned under the first and second springs to maintain the body on the base.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895977&OS=07895977&RS=07895977
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07895977
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080507
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 930 354 filed on May 10 2007 which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Small nonhuman primates frequently the common marmoset are extensively used for biomedical research. Animal research demands an interaction between the animal and research staff and this often involves capture retrieval handling and transportation. These activities can cause marked changes to measured biological parameters as well as decreases in overall health and well being of the animal.

Two methods are commonly employed for capture retrieval and handling of marmosets. These methods hand and net capture raise safety concerns for both animal and handler. Hand capture involves the reach of an individual into the animal s housing cage while wearing thick protective gloves. Such gloves are not typically long enough to cover the entire length of arm protruding into the cage during capture and while long sleeve garments are indeed available to cover an operator s extended arm in the cage the potential for any exposure of unprotected skin inside the cage of animals known to have infectious diseases sharp teeth and aggressive traits at times is not safe practice. In addition marmosets typically try to avoid capture by fleeing side to side at the rear or top of the cage or cling tightly to the cage walls. This can cause injuries to themselves or their paired housing mate during removal from their home cage.

Protective gloves used in both hand and net capture can inadvertently harm the marmoset. When catching marmosets by hand the use of heavy protective gloves leather gloves or chain mail gauntlets over leather gloves has been highly recommended. However the decrease in tactile sensation for the handler necessitates the weight of the glove used be carefully gauged to ensure that excessive pressure is not applied to the animal thereby causing injury. The use of heavy protective gloves to handle marmosets may also result in damage to their teeth if they bite. Prolonged handling with heavy gloves can also cause injury during repositioning of the animal following capture.

Although commonly used nets for catching marmosets can cause untoward injuries as they engage in typical avoidance responses. A quick sweep of the net at a fleeing marmoset can cause harm from purpura to fracture of long bones e.g. humerus femur . The net capture is a frightening and stressful experience which tends to exhaust the marmoset and may result in injury.

Facilities are often recommended to have cages equipped with sliding or false backs called squeeze back cages enabling marmosets to be moved slowly to the front of the cage for administration of medications injections and experimental procedures. These cages are easy to use and effectively immobilize the animal for routine procedures. Squeeze back cages are not useful for more complicated techniques and can only be used for singly housed marmosets. While safer than hand or net capture squeeze back cage capture has been associated with increased cortisol signs of distress and decreases in testosterone and serum prolactin in various marmoset species.

Squeeze back cages are not ideal when they are solely used as the home cage to facilitate restraint and capture because these cages are small lack enrichment and perpetuate a constant fear of capture. Another option is for cages to be fitted with a sliding panel in the door to permit the easy transfer of the animal into a transport cage. However use of sliding panels for smaller transport cages and squeeze back cages are not universal in all marmoset research facilities.

The ideal method for gentle capture would be use of a device that minimizes stress exposure of handler to animal physical handling and manipulation of the animal and time to capture. The present invention provides such device.

A device for the safe handling of nonhuman primates comprises an elongated body having a top end and a bottom end. A lid is connected to the top end and a base is removably connected to the bottom end. Means are provided for separating the bottom end from the base to expose the bottom of the body to allow the nonhuman primate to enter into the body. The body includes a plurality of apertures to allow food for the nonhuman primate to be placed into the body.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Although the present invention is described with respect to a marmoset by way of example it will be understood that the device is applicable to a variety of nonhuman primates. illustrate respective front and back views of the device . Device includes an elongated body having a top end and a bottom end . A lid is connected to top end and the bottom end is removably connected to a base . Base has a substantially planar bottom surface. In a preferred embodiment body is of a transparent material such as plastic so as to better view an enclosed marmoset.

In body is shown as having a plurality of sides specifically eight sides . However body may also have three four five six seven or more sides or may be cylindrical. The inside transverse dimension i.e. from side to side of the body may be in a range of about 5 inches to about 10 inches depending on the primate. For marmosets the preferred transverse dimension is about 6 inches. In the case of a cylinder the inside transverse dimension is the cylinder diameter. The height of device including lid may be in a range of about 14 to about 20 inches. For marmosets the height is preferably about 16 inches.

Body is provided with multiple apertures . Inserts are placed in apertures . shows an exemplary insert . The insert includes a front face which lies on the outside of body and an aperture . The top of the insert has a lip which lies on the inside of body to secure the insert . A back wall extends into body and is devoid of a floor such the arrangement defines a downward facing opening into the body for ventilation delivery of food morsels or the like. A projection which may be a screw is engaged into hole at the bottom of the insert .

Referring once again to shows that the lid is secured to body by for example a hinge . The lid is maintained in position by a spring arrangement illustrated in . More particularly the spring arrangement includes first and second inserts and having respective projections and . Lid includes a projecting screw around which is a ring . A spring or the like is wrapped around projections and of inserts and and is connected to ring so as to maintain lid in a latched or closed condition.

Marmosets have demonstrated a tendency to migrate into lid . When a marmoset is to be removed the lid may be opened by removing the ring from screw and lifting the lid by means of knob . Knob is secured to lid through any of openings or slits in lid . The marmoset may then be removed from the lid by a handler for injections blood collection and experimental procedures with minimal stress induced to the animal. In some cases the marmoset may be accessed through slits or openings in the lid without removing the marmoset from device .

To this end and to encourage the marmoset to migrate to the lid the number and size of the openings in the lid are preferably as large as possible without comprising structural integrity of the lid. Thus the lid is more than a planar cover for the top end of the body . The lid may define an interior volume and thus may have a height dimension the height dimension is vertical in . Lid may preferably have a height in the range of about 3 to about 6 inches although other heights may be used.

Means are provided to separate the base from the body to enable capture of a marmoset from its cage for experimental purposes. With additional reference to the base includes an upstanding segmented wall over which the body fits and which surrounds a central aperture . Central aperture is meant for ventilation and not for access by the primate. Thus central aperture may have a diameter of about an inch or so.

With just a force fit the body may separate from base so a more positive securing arrangement is provided. The securing arrangement includes third and fourth inserts and proximate the lower end of body and having respective projections and . Springs and are secured to base by for example screws. To secure body to base projections and are slipped under respective springs and as illustrated in . To remove the base the procedure is reversed.

Marmoset capture involves removal of the base and placement of the device inside of the marmoset s cage not shown . Food rewards are placed inside the device through apertures for example to facilitate the learned behavior of entering the device . Upon entry of the marmoset into the device the body is clamped onto the base and placed in the upright position. The springs on the base secure the base to the body . Once the base is securely attached the device can be placed on the ground to retrieve the marmoset for veterinary care or manipulation. To maintain stability the cross sectional area of base may be at least 1.5 times larger than the cross sectional area of body .

A safe cost effective and improved method for the capture retrieval holding and transportation of marmosets and other small nonhuman primates from their holding cages has been described. The device minimizes stress exposure of handler to animal physical handling and manipulation of the animal and time for capture of the animal. The device can use food or other positive reinforcers create a safe minimal stress environment for the animal and encourage cooperative behavior between handler and subject.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

