---

title: Systems and methods to facilitate search of business entities
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to facilitate search of listings of businesses according to opening date or age of the businesses at their current business locations. For example, a user may submit a search request for listings of new businesses (e.g., the businesses having the “Grand Opening” status) at a location specified by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177068&OS=09177068&RS=09177068
owner: 
number: 09177068
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20080805
---
At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate to search and presentation of information in general and particularly but not limited to searching for information related to businesses.

An end user may be interested in information about business entities near a particular location such as service providers of a particular category near the current location of the end user or a different location specified by the end user.

Thus some web sites allow an end user to search for providers of services and or products by entering one or more keywords and a location of interest. After a keyword search the web site may sort and present the search results to the end user. Alternatively a web site may organize the categories of businesses according to a predetermined hierarchy to allow a user to browse categories of providers of services and or products.

For example a web site may present business listings of various services and or products based on locations and based on user entered search terms or based on selections from a predetermined set of categories.

For presentation a web site may sort the search results based on the distance between the location of interest to the end user and the locations of the business entities or based on a different criterion such as price advertisement fee user ratings etc.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The present disclosure provides systems and methods to facilitate search of listings of businesses according to opening date or age of the businesses at their current business locations. For example a data storage facility stores data indicative of the opening date or age of the businesses with the listings of the business entities to allow a user to submit a search request for listings of new businesses e.g. the businesses having the Grand Opening status at a location specified by the user. The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods.

In an end user uses a user terminal to submit a search request to a web server over the network . The web server s are configured to communicate with a location detector a search engine a sorter to process the search request and present search results based on the information stored in a data storage facility such as opening dates of the business entities locations of the business entities and listings of the business entities. The network may include a local area network a wireless data communication network a telephone network a cellular communication network a telecommunication network an interactive television network an Internet Protocol Television IPTV network an intranet or a combination of networks such as the Internet.

For example listings of businesses or people such as restaurants car dealers retailer locations service providers gas stations parking lots plumbers and the like may have street addresses or other location parameters such as longitude and latitude coordinates stored as locations . The listings may include addresses telephone numbers advertisements announcements events etc. The locations may be part of the listings or associated with the listings . In one embodiment the listings are information related to business entities at corresponding business locations and the businesses start their services on the corresponding dates at their current geographic locations . Some of the entities may be advertisers who pay advertisement fees to promote their listings . Some of the entities may be non advertisers who have free listings .

In some embodiments the data storage facility stores status data indicative of the dates instead of the exact opening dates of the businesses of the listings . For example a listing may have a status of Grand Opening which expires after a period of time. In one embodiment the data storage facility may store the number of years the business of the listing has been in service at its current geographic location . In some embodiment the data storage facility may store a status indicating the level of past operations e.g. long short medium etc. the business of the listing has been in service at its current geographic location .

In one embodiment the location detector determines a location of interest to the end user related to the search request. The end user may explicitly specify the location of interest in the search request and the location detector extracts the location of interest from the search request.

Alternatively the end user may implicitly specify the location of interest based on a preference stored and associated with identification information of the end user or the user terminal .

In some embodiments the location detector automatically identifies the location of interest based on determining the current location of the user terminal that submits the search request. For example the location detector may determine the location of the user terminal based on a connection point of the user terminal to access the network e.g. based on the location of a wireless network access point or a base station of a cellular communication system or a connection point to a wired network . In some embodiments the user terminal automatically determines its current position e.g. via a satellite positioning system or a cellular positioning system and transmits the determined or estimated position to the web server with the search request or provides the position in response to a request from the location detector .

In the search engine retrieves information from the data storage facility according to the search request. The sorter ranks the listings in the search results for presentation in an order according to one or more parameters such as dates distance to the location of interest popularity user ranking price and or advertisement fees.

For example the end user may specify a keyword and the search engine selects listings that match the keyword that have locations near the location of interest identified by the location detector and that have a status of Grand Opening e.g. according to the dates .

In one embodiment a listing has a Grand Opening status if the business of the listing opened at the current geographic location within a predetermined period of time e.g. a month three months six months a year . The web server or the sorter or another module not shown in compares the opening date of the listing to the current date to determine whether the listing has a Grand Opening status.

In one embodiment a listing has a Grand Opening status when the business entity or a third party submits the listing as a new listing of business of services or products. The business entity or a third party may submit the listing with an indication of whether the business described by the listing is new or not. If the business described by the listing is new at the location the listing has the Grand Opening status until a predetermined period of time elapses. For example the data storage facility may store the dates on which the web server assigns the Grand Opening status to the listing and the search engine or the sorter compares the dates and the current date to determine whether the listing currently has the Grand Opening status.

In one embodiment a business entity may have different listings for the different locations and because of the different locations the different listings of the business entity may have different statuses related to Grand Opening . Alternatively a business entity having different business locations may have one listing but separate data stored to represent the different locations and the different dates .

In one embodiment the end user may specify a keyword and a criterion based on how long the businesses are in service to formulate a search request. For example the end user may search for listings related to coffee that have been in services for more than a user specified number of years or search for a user specified type of restaurants that have been in services near a location of interest for less than a user specified period of time.

In one embodiment the web server the search engine the sorter or a module not shown in determines a geographic area based on the location of interest. For example the geographic area may be an area within a predetermined radius from the location of interest. For example the geographic area may be a city or county or state in which the location of interest is located. The search engine then searches for listings within the determined geographic area.

In one embodiment the search engine adaptively adjusts the geographic area of the search based on the number of listings in the search results. When the number of listings matching the searching criteria is less than a threshold the search engine automatically increases the geographic area e.g. the radius to select more listings . When the number of listings matching the searching criterion is more than a threshold the search engine automatically decreases the geographic area e.g. the radius to limit the number of listings in the search result. For example the search engine may automatically adjust the geographic area to eliminate some listings from the previous search results.

In one embodiment the search engine or the sorter may adjust the geographic area based on an estimated transportation distance such as a driving distance or a walking distance measured according to a map. In one embodiment the search engine adjusts the geographic area based on estimated transportation time. For example the search engine may contact a web based navigation service provider not shown in to obtain estimated transportation time. Alternatively the data storage facility may store map related data and a navigation module not shown in connected to the search engine can determine the estimated transportation time. In some embodiments the search engine adjusts the geographic area based also on real time traffic conditions. For example when the search engine contacts a web based navigation service provider not shown in to obtain estimated transportation time the web based navigation service provider uses the real time traffic conditions to estimate the transportation time. Alternatively a navigation module not shown in may contact a web based traffic condition provider not shown in to obtain the real time traffic conditions and determine the estimated transportation time.

In some embodiments the search engine and or the sorter implicitly adjusts the geographic area based on a measure of distance to the location of interest. The measure of distance may be a line of sight distance a driving distance a walking distance an estimated travel time etc. The sorter sorts the listings according to the measure of distance to select a desirable amount of listings .

In one embodiment the sorter uses the dates to sort the listings in the search result identified by the search engine . For example the search engine may identify a subset from the listings based on the locations but not the dates and the sorter ranks the subset of listings based at least in part on the dates .

For example the sorter may sort to the top the listings that have the Grand Opening status. For example the sorter may use the Grand Opening status e.g. identified based on the dates as a primary parameter for sorting and use the price user ratings advertisement fees popularity or distance to the location of interest as a secondary parameter for listings have the same values for the primary parameter.

In one embodiment the sorter ranks the listings in the search results based on an advertisement fee paid or offered by the entities the status of whether an entity is an advertiser the price offered by an entity for its service or product a user rating of the entity computed based on feedbacks from prior customers of the entity a popularity of an entity e.g. connection in a social network to other entities a rate of being selected by customers etc. a score indicative of relevance between the listing of an entity and the search criterion specified by the end user etc. The data storage facility may store such information used by the sorter . The sorter may combine a plurality of parameters to generate a ranking indicator to rank the search results. Alternatively the sorter may use one parameter as the primary parameter one parameter as the secondary parameter etc. to sort the listings in the search results based on a hierarchy of parameters.

In one embodiment both the search engine and the sorter use the dates . For example the search engine uses the dates to select listings that have the Grand Opening status or having been in service for more than a user specified threshold or less than a user specified threshold and the sorter ranks the listings selected by the search engine based on the opening dates of the corresponding businesses.

In one embodiment the user terminal is a data processing system such as a notebook computer a personal computer a workstation a network computer a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone a cellular phone a television set with or without a set top box a game console an electronic kiosk microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like.

In one embodiment the user terminal includes a web browser which allows the end user to submit a search request to one of the web servers for location dependent information such as a listing of businesses or people such as restaurants car dealers retailer locations service providers gas stations parking lots plumbers and the like. Alternatively the user terminal may provide the search request via other communication channels such as email short message service SMS instant messaging IM telephone connection etc. For example the user terminal may provide the search request to an email gateway via email or to an IM gateway via instant messaging or to a telephone gateway via a telephone call. Some embodiments may use other types of gateways not shown in such as gateways for SMS or gateways for television based data communication. Thus the disclosure is not limited to the examples or combinations illustrated in .

In some embodiments the end user may use one user terminal to submit the request and another user terminal to receive the results. For example the user may submit the search request via an SMS message through user terminal and receive the search request at another user terminal via email. For example the user may submit the search request via voice through user terminal and receive the search request via a web page at another user terminal or at the same user terminal . For example in one embodiment the user may use a mobile phone as the user terminal to transmit voice information via a data connection through the network and the web server or email gateway or IM gateway or other data communication gateways or a telephone connection through a telephone gateway to a voice recognition system to formulate a search and receive a web page or email at the same user terminal or at another user terminal that shows the result of the search.

In one embodiment one computer system implements the web servers the location detectors the search engine and the sorter . Alternatively different processes running on one or more shared computers may implement some of the components and . For example one computing module thread or process may implement multiple of the components and . In some embodiments special purpose data processing systems implement the one or more of the components and such as using Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . In some embodiments processes running on general purpose data processing systems such as general purpose personal computers or server computers according to software instructions can implement the components and . Thus the implementations are not limited to hardware software or particular combinations of hardware and software.

Different embodiments may implement the data storage facility in different ways. For example one or more data processing systems may store the information about the dates the locations and the listings . For example one or more relational or object oriented databases or flat files on one or more computers or networked storage devices may store the information about the dates the locations and the listings . In some embodiments a centralized system stores the information about the dates the locations and the listings alternatively a distributed system such as a peer to peer network or Internet may store the information about the dates the locations and the listings .

In a user terminal e.g. provides a search user interface which includes an input box to receive one or more keywords an input box to receive a location of interest. The end user may alternatively use the icon button to select the location of interest from an interactive map.

In after the end user specifies the keyword in the input box and the location of interest in the input box the end user can select the search button to search for listings of businesses that match the keyword and that are located near the location of interest. The end user may select the icon button to request listings of new businesses that match the keyword and that are located near the location of interest. In one embodiment new businesses are those who have a grand opening status at the locations near the location of interest.

After the search interface receives the selection of the search button or the icon button for listings of new businesses the user terminal submits the search request to web server s .

In some embodiments the search interface provides a further input box not shown in to specify a search criterion base on the opening dates of the listings . For example the end user may specify a number of years or months to request listings of businesses that have been in services near the location of interest for more than the user specified number of years or months or listings of businesses that have been in services near the location of interest for less than the user specified number of years of months. For example the end user may be interested in listings of new businesses identified by the keyword or listings of well established businesses related to the keyword in a geographic area near the location of interest.

In one embodiment the end user implicitly specifies the location of interest based on the location of the user terminal or based on a preference setting of the end user . In one embodiment the location detector determines the location of the user terminal or the preference setting of the end user as a default location and the user interface shows the default location in the input box for verification and or modification.

For example the user terminal e.g. with a global positioning system GPS unit or the location detector can automatically determine the current location of the user terminal that presents the search user interface . The input box displays the automatically determined location of the user terminal as a default location and the user may specify an alternative location via the input box or via the icon button .

In the user interface presents the search results under the input boxes and . In the example illustrated in the user interface presents listings of business products and services in response to a search request.

In the user interface presents the listings in an order according to the opening dates of the businesses at the locations indicated in the corresponding listings . In some embodiments the user interface presents the listings in an order according to a measure of distance to the location of interest such as an estimated transportation time a driving distance a line of sight distance etc.

In the user interface presents a listing such as the listing for Star Coffee with various information about the entity including the street address a telephone contact a distance to the location of interest a user rating and options to contact the entity via other communication channels and or to obtain additional information via other communication channels.

In one embodiment the listing represents a business of products or services. The technologies disclosed herein can be used for example in a web site such as Yellowpages.com. The business entity of the listing may pay a fee to become an advertiser or not pay a fee to have a free listing .

In one embodiment the advertiser pays a predetermined fee for priority in the display of the listings . For example the advertiser may pay a monthly advertisement fee or an advertisement fee charged for a predetermined number of presentations to obtain a high priority in the ranking of the listings .

In another embodiment the advertiser pays a predetermined fee when a link presented in the listing forwards the end user to a web location specified by the advertiser such as a web site of the advertiser. In one embodiment the advertiser pays a predetermined fee when the end user calls the advertiser using the telephone contact provided in the listing .

In one embodiment the operator of the search engine specifies the predetermined advertisement fees. In another embodiment the advertiser specifies and offers the predetermined advertisement fees and the advertisers can adjust the offer of the advertisement fees to balance the need for a high ranking with their group and the cost.

In the listings provide the call link to allow a customer to request a call back to the customer for a phone connection to the advertiser. When a telephonic device e.g. a mobile phone or a computer having a phone implemented partially via software etc. presents the listing the customer can use the call link to initiate a call from the telephonic device.

In the listings provide the email link to send the listing and or the phone number via email to an address specified by the user . The user can select the menu for more options such as an option to send the phone number via SMS an option to save the listing as a note an option to bookmark the listing etc.

In the listing for Bean Cafe includes a web site link which when selected by the end user forwards the end user to the web site of the business Bean Cafe or an information page hosted on the web server to provide further details about the business such as the business hours payment options accepted by the business a detailed description of the business videos related to the business etc.

In the listings also include links related to customer ratings of the businesses based on feedback from prior customers of the business. For example a user may read reviews wrote by other users or to write and or rate the business.

In some embodiments the listings include banner or video advertisements from the corresponding entities advertisers . The listings may include links to web locations specified by the advertisers.

For example in one embodiment the heading Star Coffee includes a link to a web site to the business advertiser of the listing . When the end user selects the link the link directs the end user to the web site of the business advertiser and the advertiser may pay a per selection advertisement fee for the end user that is directed by the link to the web site of the business advertiser.

Alternatively or in combination the end user may call the telephone contact provided in the listing after a connection server connects the telephone call from the end user to the business advertiser the advertiser may pay a per call advertisement fee responsive to the call that is directed by the telephone contact to the business advertiser.

In one embodiment to track the calls forwarded to the business advertiser the listing provides a telephone number of a connection server as the telephone contact of the listing . When the connection server receives the call to the telephone number of the connection server the connection server forwards the call to the telephone number of the business advertiser or makes a separate call to the telephone number of the business advertiser and bridges the calls to make the connection.

In a data storage facility stores listings of a plurality of businesses with data indicative of ages of the businesses such as opening dates of the businesses at the locations of the listings . After a web server receives a search request over a network such as network from a user terminal the search engine identifies a subset of the listings based at least in part on the data indicative of the ages of the businesses. The web server then presents listings of the identified subset in response to the search request from the end user .

In one embodiment the web server includes an application programming interface API to allow a third party application to submit the search request and to retrieve the listings of the identified subset.

In one embodiment the web server provides a web interface to receive the search request from a web browser running on the user terminal and to present the listings of the identified subset via the web browser. As illustrated in the web interface may include an input field to receive a search term and a user interface element or selectable to submit the search request with the search term. In one embodiment the user interface element e.g. is pre associated with a criterion based on the data indicative of the ages of the businesses. For example the criterion requires business of the identified subset of listings be established within a predetermined time period e.g. to have the status of new business or Grand Opening at the current geographic location of the business . For example the end user may specify an age threshold to request the businesses of the listings in the identified subset be younger than the age threshold or older than the age threshold .

In one embodiment the end user can specify the location of interest in an input box separate from the input box for the search term or keyword. In some embodiments the end user can specify both the location of interest and the search term keyword the same input box e.g. by entering coffee 93415 in the input box and the location detector detects and extracts the user specified location of interest from the input box . In some embodiments the user can further specify the criterion related to the opening dates of the businesses e.g. by entering grand opening coffee 93415 in the input box . Thus in response to the search request the web interface provides listings of businesses that match the keyword that are located within an geographic area identified based on the location of interest and that are established or opened business at the corresponding location according to the requirement specified by the end user .

In one embodiment the listings include locations as illustrated in and the data storage facility stores dates on which the businesses opened at the locations respectively. In some embodiment the data storage facility stores status indicators showing whether the businesses had Grand Opening at the locations respectively within a predetermined time period to indicate the age of the businesses.

In one embodiment the sorter sorts the identified subset based at least in part on the data indicative of ages of the businesses e.g. to prioritize the listings based on the how long the businesses have been in services at their current locations .

In a data storage facility stores listings of a plurality of businesses with opening dates of the businesses. After a web server receives a search request over a network from an end user via a user terminal the search engine identifies a subset of the listings according to the search request. As a response to the search request from the end user the web site then presents listings of the identified subset in an order determined by the sorter based on at least in part on the opening dates .

In one embodiment the web server the search engine the sorter or another module not shown in identifies an geographic area the identified subset is within the geographic area and the sorter increases a priority of a first listing in the identified subset in response to a determination that the first listing opened business at a location within the geographic area within a predetermined period of time from the search request. For example the sorter may increase the priority of the first listing because of the Grand Opening status of the first listing at its current business location even if the first listing is not an advertiser who pays the search engine .

In one embodiment the sorter selects the identified subset for presentation according to a location identified in the search request and based on a determination that businesses described in the identified subset have Grand Opening near the location within a predetermined number of months or days.

In one embodiment a server data processing system as illustrated in is used as one of the web server s a location detector a search engine a sorter and or a storage facility for storing dates locations and listings etc. In some embodiments one or more servers e.g. of the system can be replaced e.g. by a system designer with the service of a peer to peer network of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing system. The peer to peer network or a distributed computing system can be collectively viewed e.g. by the reader of the description as a server data processing system.

In one embodiment a user terminal is a data processing system as illustrated in to provide the user interface illustrated .

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art. In some embodiments when the data processing system is used a server system some of the I O devices such as printer scanner mice keyboards are optional.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code instructions by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs . The computer programs typically include one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others. The instructions may be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

