---

title: Method and apparatus for producing conductive material
abstract: A photosensitive film, which has a transparent support and a silver salt emulsion layer containing a silver salt formed thereon, is exposed and developed to form a metallic silver portion. The base material to be plated is electrified in a solution containing a metal ion, using the metallic silver portion as a cathode. Then, the electrified base material is subjected to an electroless plating treatment to form a plated layer only on the metallic silver portion. The metal ion in the solution is preferably an ion of copper, nickel, cobalt, or tin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08268400&OS=08268400&RS=08268400
owner: Fujifilm Corporation
number: 08268400
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20080925
---
The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for producing a conductive material. For example the conductive material is suitable for use in electromagnetic shielding materials for blocking electromagnetic waves from display devices such as PDPs plasma display panels and liquid crystal displays transparent electrodes of electronic devices such as touch panels printed circuits of electronic devices antenna circuits of contactless ICs etc.

A conductive material such as an electromagnetic shielding film for PDP is required to have both conductivity and light transmittability. A material having a transparent substrate and a mesh patterned conductive layer of a fine metal wire etc. has been known as such a conductive material and it can be produced by 1 a method containing the steps of forming a thin copper layer on a transparent substrate by bonding electroless plating etc. and subjecting the layer to a photolithography process to etch the layer into a pattern Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 05 016281 and 10 163673 etc. 2 a method containing the steps of printing an ink containing an electroless plating catalyst particle such as a palladium particle into a pattern on a transparent substrate and subjecting the printed ink to an electroless plating treatment to form a conductive layer thereon Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 11 170420 and 2003 318593 etc. or 3 a method containing the steps of exposing a photosensitive silver halide layer formed on a transparent substrate to form a patterned developed silver and subjecting the developed silver to a plating treatment to form a patterned conductive layer thereon International Patent Publication No. WO 01 51276 Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 221564 etc. 

The method of 1 which contains etching and patterning the thin copper layer by the photolithography process is advantageously capable of micromachining. Thus by using the method a mesh having a high aperture ratio can be formed and a conductive material having high conductivity and transparency can be obtained easily. However this method disadvantageously requires complicated processes of formation of the thin copper layer on the substrate formation of a photosensitive resin layer on the thin copper layer exposure removal of the resin layer removal of the thin copper layer by etching etc. Further most of the formed thin copper layer must be removed thereby resulting in increased cost for waste liquid treatment.

The method of 2 which contains printing the plating catalyst into a pattern and subjecting the printed catalyst to the plating treatment is disadvantageous in that the printed wire cannot be formed with a small width easily. Thus the conductive layer often has an excessively large width causing deterioration of the light transmittance and image quality e.g. moire generation in a display device. Furthermore because a particle of the expensive palladium or another metal having a lower activity such as copper or silver is used as the electroless plating catalyst this method has a disadvantage of high cost or low productivity.

The method of 3 which uses the silver halide contains simpler processes as compared with the photolithography method and can form the fine wire more easily as compared with the printing method. Furthermore this method is suitable for forming a seamless continuous conductive layer. However the developed silver exhibits a low activity in the electroplating or electroless plating treatment so that the plating time is increased. Thus this method has a disadvantage of low productivity.

In a technique for increasing the electroless plating activity of the developed silver described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 221564 the developed silver is treated with a palladium containing solution to increase the electroless plating rate. However in this technique the expensive palladium catalyst is needed and so called fog silver which is developed silver unexpectedly generated in a portion other than the conductive layer is activated by the palladium whereby a plated layer is undesirably formed in the portion causing a so called plating fog. In a technique described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2007 012314 the thiosulfate salt concentration of a fixer is controlled whereby the surface resistance is lowered after the electroless plating to reduce the plating time. However in this technique palladium chloride is used as a catalyst and the plating rate is insufficient. In a technique described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2006 228836 the electroless plating activity of the developed silver is improved without palladium catalysts by immersing in an activation solution containing sodium borohydride silver nitrate etc. However this technique cannot be practically used because of the low stability and high cost of the activation solution.

In a technique for increasing the electroless plating rate of the developed silver or another component as disclosed in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 61 034180 02 175895 and 2004 018975 etc. a current or a negative electric potential is applied using the material to be plated as a negative electrode in an electroless plating solution. However in this technique the plating metal is disadvantageously deposited also on a counter positive electrode placed in the electroless plating solution. Though the plating on the positive electrode can be prevented by controlling the timing of taking it out from an electroless plating bath putting it in the electroless plating bath or applying the current this technique requires complicated operation and is unsuitable for continuous mass production of the conductive film.

Also electroplating of the developed silver not the electroless plating has been tested. However in this technique as described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2007 009326 etc. the developed silver has a low conductivity so that the plated layer is ununiformly formed only in the vicinity of an electrode and a low conductive portion. Further the applied voltage or current must be controlled to prevent wire breaking due to Joule heat whereby the metal is generally deposited only in a limited amount. To increase the plating metal amount the electroplating has to be carried out at a low rate under a controlled current or using a multistage apparatus as described in this patent publication. Therefore this technique cannot be practically used. This problem is caused not only in the method using the developed silver but also in the method of printing the fine metal particle into a pattern or the like. Thus in a case where the fine wire is formed from the dispersion of conductive fine particles of a metal etc. and subjected to an electroplating treatment the current for electroplating is limited because of the contact resistance between the conductive fine particles and the insufficient conductivity of the fine wire. Thus the electroplating has to be carried out at a low rate or in a multistage apparatus to increase the plating amount. When the density or application amount of the conductive fine particles is increased to improve the conductivity the wire width is increased and the adhesion between the conductive layer and the substrate is deteriorated. When the electric resistance between the conductive fine particles is lowered beforehand by sintering etc. a complicated operation is required and the substrate is often thermally deformed.

Accordingly there is a demand for a conductive metal layer producing method with high productivity capable of forming a fine wire easily.

In view of the above problems an object of the present invention is to provide a method and an apparatus capable of highly efficiently producing a conductive material having a patterned fine conductive metal layer more particularly a method and an apparatus capable of forming a continuous plated metal layer on a patterned developed silver or a patterned conductive fine particle deposited by printing etc. to increase a plating rate thereby highly efficiently producing a conductive material having a patterned conductive metal layer.

According to the present invention there are provided the following method and apparatus to achieve the above object.

 1 A method according to the present invention for producing a conductive material comprising a depositing step of depositing a conductive fine particle on a surface of a base material an electrifying step of electrifying the base material in a solution containing a metal ion using the conductive fine particle as a cathode and an electroless plating step of subjecting the base material to an electroless plating treatment to deposit a metal on the conductive fine particle.

 3 A method according to 1 or 2 wherein an electrifying time in the electrifying step is 0.01 to 60 seconds.

 4 A method according to any one of 1 to 3 wherein the metal ion is an ion of at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron nickel copper silver cobalt zinc and tin.

 5 A method according to any one of 1 to 4 wherein an amount of metal plated in the electrifying step is 1 10 or less times an amount of metal plated in the electroless plating step.

 6 A method according to any one of 1 to 5 wherein the solution containing the metal ion further contains a complexing agent.

 7 A method according to 6 wherein the complexing agent comprises at least one salt selected from the group consisting of ethylenediaminetetraacetate triethanolamine tartrate acetate citrate and pyrophosphate.

 10 A method according to 1 wherein a content of the metal ion in the solution containing the metal ion is 0.0001 to 1.0 mol L.

 11 A method according to 10 wherein the solution containing the metal ion further contains a complexing agent and a ratio of a content of the complexing agent to the content of the metal ion is 1 to 100.

 12 A method according to any one of 1 to 11 wherein the metal ion in the solution is an ion of copper nickel cobalt or tin.

 13 A method according to any one of 1 to 12 wherein in the depositing step a photosensitive film having a silver salt emulsion layer containing a silver salt is formed on the base material and is exposed and developed to form a metallic silver portion.

 14 A method according to any one of 1 to 12 wherein in the depositing step a paste or an ink containing the conductive fine particle is printed on the base material.

 15 A method according to any one of 1 to 12 wherein in the depositing step a photosensitive resin layer containing the conductive fine particle is formed on the base material and is irradiated with a light and developed using a photomask.

 16 An apparatus according to the present invention for subjecting a base material having a conductive fine particle to a plating treatment to form a conductive layer thereby producing a conductive material comprising an electrifying unit and an electroless plating unit wherein

the electrifying unit comprises a feed roller for feeding electricity to the conductive fine particle in contact therewith and an electrifying bath for electrifying the conductive fine particle in a solution containing a metal ion disposed downstream of the feed roller in the direction of conveying the base material and

the electroless plating unit is disposed downstream of the electrifying unit and is used for subjecting the conductive fine particle to an electroless plating treatment to deposit a metal thereon.

As described above by using the conductive material producing method and the conductive material producing apparatus of the present invention the continuous plated metal layer can be formed on the developed silver or the patterned conductive fine particle deposited by printing etc. to increase a plating rate in the production of the conductive material. Thus the conductive material which has the conductive metal layer of a patterned fine wire on the base material and can be suitably used in electromagnetic shielding films and transparent electrodes can be highly efficiently produced in the present invention.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which a preferred embodiment of the present invention is shown by way of illustrative example.

The conductive material producing method and the conductive material producing apparatus of the present invention will be described in detail below.

It should be noted that in the present invention a numeric range of A to B includes both the numeric values A and B as the lower limit and upper limit values.

The conductive material producing method of the present invention comprises 1 the step of depositing a conductive fine particle on a surface of a base material 2 the step of electrifying the base material in a solution containing a metal ion using the conductive fine particle as a cathode and 3 the step of subjecting the base material to an electroless plating treatment to deposit a metal on the conductive fine particle.

In the present invention the method of depositing the conductive fine particle on the base material surface is not particularly limited. It is preferred that the conductive fine particles are deposited in a pattern on the base material surface. For example the conductive fine particles can be preferably deposited by the following processes.

In this process a photosensitive silver halide layer is formed exposed and developed on the base material surface whereby the conductive fine particles of developed silver are deposited on the surface.

In this process a paste or an ink containing the conductive fine particles is printed on the base material.

In this process a photosensitive resin layer containing the conductive fine particles is formed on the base material and an unnecessary portion is etched and removed by a photoresist technique.

The producing method containing the process using the photosensitive silver halide material for depositing the conductive fine particles on the base material surface which may be referred to as the producing method of the present invention hereinafter will be described in detail below.

Preferred examples of the process using the photosensitive silver halide material include the following two processes different in the types of the photosensitive material and development treatment.

 1 Process comprising chemical development of photosensitive silver halide material free of physical development nuclei for forming metallic silver portion thereon

This process is described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2004 221564 2006 228469 2006 332459 2007 129205 and 2007 095331 etc.

In this process since the photosensitive material is free of physical development nuclei that stain a portion other than the conductive layer the conductive material can be produced with a high light transmittance. Since the contents of the photosensitive material and the development treatment are simple the process is productive. Further because the developed silver is formed without diffusion transfer processes the conductive layer can be finely formed. However the developed silver cannot be formed with a high density because of a binder in the photosensitive material and the developed silver layer has a lower conductivity as compared with diffusion transfer processes.

Control of the silver binder ratio or swelling ratio of the photosensitive material a consolidation treatment a binder elution treatment etc. are proposed to solve the problem.

 2 Process comprising solution physical development of photosensitive silver halide material containing physical development nuclei for forming developed silver on physical development nuclei by diffusion transfer

This process is described in Japanese Patent Publication No. 42 23745 International Patent Publication Nos. WO 01 51276 and WO 2004 7810 etc. In this process silver ions dissolved by the solution physical development can be deposited on the physical development nuclei to increase the silver density whereby the conductivity can be easily increased. However this process is disadvantageous in that the wire width is often increased due to diffusion of the silver ions the transmittance is reduced due to the physical development nuclei disposed in a portion other than the conductive layer and the contents of the photosensitive material and the development treatment are complicated.

The chemical development thermal development solution physical development and diffusion transfer development have the meanings generally known in the art and are explained in common photographic chemistry texts such as Shin ichi Kikuchi Kyoritsu Shuppan Co. Ltd. 1955 and C. E. K. Mees 4th ed. Macmillian 1977. A liquid development treatment is generally used in the present invention and also a thermal development treatment can be utilized. For example techniques described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2004 184693 2004 334077 and 2005 010752 and Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2004 244080 and 2004 085655 can be used.

In the present invention the components of the photosensitive silver halide material the exposure treatment and the development treatment may be selected from those described in the above patent publications and known ones. They are particularly preferably selected from those described in the following patent publications.

Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2006 228469 2006 332459 and 2006 352073 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 24723.

Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2006 228473 2006 269795 2006 267635 2006 267627 and 2006 324203.

The developed photosensitive material may be preferably subjected to a film hardening treatment described in Japanese Patent Application No. 2005 379199 a smoothing treatment described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2007 129205 an aqueous electrolyte solution treatment described in Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 336090 a hot water or steam treatment described in Japanese Patent Application No. 2007 93021 etc.

An example of the step of depositing the conductive fine particles on the base material surface with the method using the photosensitive silver halide material will be described below with reference to .

First as shown in the base material such as a transparent support is coated with a photosensitive silver salt layer which is prepared by mixing a silver halide e.g. silver bromide particles silver chlorobromide particles silver iodobromide particles with a gelatin . Though the silver halide is exaggeratingly shown as particles in to facilitate understanding the size concentration etc. of the silver halide are not limited to the drawings.

Then as shown in the photosensitive silver salt layer is subjected to an exposure treatment for forming a mesh pattern etc. When an optical energy is applied to the silver halide a minute silver nucleus a latent image invisible to the naked eye is generated.

As shown in a development treatment is carried out to convert the latent image to an image visible to the naked eye. Specifically the photosensitive silver salt layer having the latent image is developed using a developer which is an alkaline or acidic solution generally an alkaline solution. In the development treatment using the latent image silver nucleus as a catalyst core a silver ion from the silver halide or the developer is reduced to metallic silver by a reducing agent called a developing agent in the developer. As a result the latent image silver nucleus is grown to form a visible silver image a developed silver .

The photosensitive silver halide remains in the photosensitive silver salt layer after the development treatment. As shown in the residual silver halide is removed by a fixation treatment using a fixer which is an acidic or alkaline solution generally an acidic solution.

After the fixation treatment fine metal particle portions metallic silver portions are disposed in exposed areas and only the gelatin remains in unexposed areas as light transmittable portions . Thus a combination of the metallic silver portions and the light transmittable portions is formed on the transparent support . At this stage the base material to be plated having the metallic silver portions the conductive fine particles is obtained.

In a case where silver bromide is used as the silver halide and a thiosulfate salt is used in the fixation treatment a reaction represented by the following formula proceeds in the fixation treatment. AgBr solid 2SOions Ag SO readily water soluble complex 

Two thiosulfate SOions and a silver ion in the gelatin from AgBr are reacted to generate a silver thiosulfate complex. The silver thiosulfate complex has high water solubility and thereby is eluted from the gelatin . As a result the developed silver is fixed and remains as the metallic silver portion .

Thus the latent image is reacted with the reducing agent to deposit the developed silver in the development treatment and the residual silver halide not converted to the developed silver is eluted into water in the fixation treatment. The treatments are described in detail in T. H. James 4th ed. Macmillian Publishing Co. Inc. NY Chapter 15 pp. 438 442 1977.

An alkaline solution is generally used in the development treatment. Therefore when the procedure proceeds from the development treatment to the fixation treatment the alkaline solution used in the development treatment may be mixed into the fixer generally an acidic solution whereby the activity of the fixer may be disadvantageously changed in the fixation treatment. Further the developer may remain on the film after removing the film from the development bath whereby an undesired development reaction may be accelerated by the developer. Thus it is preferred that the photosensitive silver salt layer is neutralized or acidified by a quencher such as an acetic acid solution after the development treatment before the fixation treatment.

The difference between the above mentioned process using the silver halide emulsion layer a silver salt photography technology and the process using a photoresist a resist technology will be described below.

In the resist technology a photopolymerization initiator absorbs a light in an exposure treatment to initiate a reaction a photoresist film a resin per se undergoes a polymerization reaction to increase or decrease the solubility in a developer and the resin in an exposed area or an unexposed area is removed in a development treatment. The developer used in the resist technology may be an alkaline solution free of reducing agents in which an unreacted resin component can be dissolved. On the other hand as described above in the silver salt photography technology according to the present invention the minute silver nucleus the so called latent image is formed from silver ion and photoelectron generated in the exposed silver halide in the exposure treatment. The latent image silver nucleus is grown to form the visible silver image in the development treatment using the developer which must contain the reducing agent the developing agent . Thus the resist technology and the silver salt photography technology are greatly different in the reactions in the exposure and development treatments.

In the development treatment of the resist technology the unpolymerized resin portion in the exposed or unexposed area is removed. On the other hand in the development treatment of the silver salt photography technology using the latent image as the catalyst core the reduction reaction is conducted by the reducing agent the developing agent contained in the developer and the developed silver is grown into a visible size. The gelatin in the unexposed area is not removed in the silver salt photography technology. Thus the resist technology and the silver salt photography technology are greatly different also in the reactions in the development treatments.

The silver halide contained in the gelatin in the unexposed area is eluted in the following fixation treatment and the gelatin is not removed as shown in .

The main reaction component the photosensitive component is the silver halide in the silver salt photography technology while it is the photopolymerization initiator in the resist technology. Further in the development treatment the binder the gelatin remains in the silver salt photography technology as shown in while it is removed in the resist technology. The resist technology and the silver salt photography technology are greatly different in these points.

The producing method containing the process of printing the paste or ink containing the conductive fine particles for depositing the conductive fine particles on the base material surface which may be referred to as the producing method of the present invention hereinafter will be described in detail below.

In an example of the step of depositing the conductive fine particles on the base material surface by using the printing process as shown in a paste containing the conductive fine particles is screen printed on a surface of the transparent support .

A known printing method such as a gravure offset typographic screen flexo or ink jet printing method may be used in the present invention. Preferred examples of the known printing methods include screen printing methods described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 11 170420 and 2003 109435 offset printing methods described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2000 196285 and 2001 358496 ink jet methods described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2003 318593 and flexo printing methods described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 40033.

The base material may be subjected to a surface treatment or covered with an anchor coat layer. Examples of effective surface treatments include primer coating treatments plasma treatments and corona discharge treatments. After the treatment the critical surface tension of the base material is preferably 3.5 10N cm or more more preferably 4.0 10N cm or more.

The paste or ink used in the printing process contains the conductive fine particles for forming a conductive pattern by printing and preferably further contains a solvent a binder or a dispersing agent for dispersing the particles.

In the present invention the material of the conductive fine particle is not particularly limited and is preferably a metal a metal oxide a carbon black or a mixture thereof. Specifically preferred examples of the materials include metals such as silver copper palladium gold nickel aluminum tungsten iron tin cobalt zinc chromium vanadium titanium and alloys thereof and metal oxides such as zinc oxide tin oxide titanium oxide silver oxide vanadium pentoxide molybdenum trioxide barium oxide tungsten trioxide alumina Sb doped tin oxide ATO In doped tin oxide ITO tin oxide doped indium oxide ITO Al doped zinc oxide and Nb doped titanium oxide.

Though metals other than noble metals are known to have low electroless plating activity such a metal or an oxide thereof can be suitably used for the conductive fine particle in the present invention. Because palladium has a high electroless plating activity intrinsically the advantageous effects of the present invention are less significant when the noble metal is used for the conductive fine particle. Thus it is preferred that the conductive fine particle is free of palladium. The particle size of the fine particle is not particularly limited. When the particle size is excessively large the wire width or outline of the conductive layer is deteriorated. Thus the spherical equivalent diameter of the fine particle which is a diameter of a spherical particle having the same volume as the fine particle is preferably 0.01 to 2 m. The shape of the fine particle is not particularly limited. When the fine particle has a plate shape or an anisotropic shape such as a needle shape a high conductivity can be achieved by using only a small amount of the fine particle.

Preferred examples of the binders usable in the paste or ink according to the present invention include gelatins and derivatives thereof polyvinyl alcohols PVA polyvinyl pyrolidones PVP polysaccharides such as starches cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethyl celluloses and hydroxyethyl celluloses and hydrophilic binders such as polyethylene oxides polyvinylamines chitosans polylysines polyacrylic acids polyalginic acids and polyhyaluronic acids. These binders show a neutral anionic or cationic property due to iconicity of a functional group.

Examples of the binders usable in the present invention further include resins such as polyester resins polyvinyl butyral resins ethylcellulose resins meth acrylic resins polyethylene resins polystyrene resins polyamide resins polyurethane resins polyester melamine resins melamine resins epoxy melamine resins phenol resins epoxy resins amino resins polyimide resins and meth acrylic resins. Two or more of these resins may be copolymerized or blended if necessary.

The binder may be colorless or colored. When a colored binder is used in a display material light reflection can be reduced to improve the visibility. The paste or ink generally contains the binder and it does not have to contain the binder in a case where without the binder the conductive fine particles can be satisfactorily dispersed and can be brought into sufficient contact with the base material after the printing.

Preferred examples of the solvents used in the paste or ink according to the present invention include water alcohols glycols ketones and esters. Specific examples of the solvents include water alcohols such as hexanol octanol nonanol decanol undecanol dodecanol tridecanol tetradecanol pentadecanoyl stearyl alcohol seryl alcohol cyclohexanol and terpineol alkyl ethers such as ethylene glycol monobutyl ether butyl cellosolve ethylene glycol monophenyl ether diethylene glycol diethylene glycol monobutyl ether butyl carbitol cellosolve acetate butyl cellosolve acetate carbitol acetate and butyl carbitol acetate acetone methyl ethyl ketone methyl acetate and ethyl acetate. The solvent may be appropriately selected depending on printing properties handling properties etc.

When a higher alcohol is used as the solvent the drying property and the fluidity of the ink may be deteriorated. Thus the higher alcohol may be used in combination with a solvent having a more excellent drying property such as butyl carbitol butyl cellosolve ethyl carbitol butyl cellosolve acetate or butyl carbitol acetate. The amount of the solvent may be selected depending on the viscosity of the ink or paste. The solvent amount per 100 parts by mass of the binder is generally 100 to 500 parts by mass preferably 100 to 300 parts by mass in view of the amount of the metal particles.

The viscosity of the ink or paste used in the present invention may be appropriately controlled depending on the printing method and the solvent and is preferably 5 to 20 000 mPa s.

The ink or paste used in the present invention may contain a surfactant a dispersing agent a thickener a leveling agent a crosslinking agent etc. in addition to the conductive fine particles the binder and the solvent.

The conductive fine particles may be deposited on the base material surface by the steps of forming the photosensitive resin layer containing the conductive fine particles on the base material and etching and removing the unnecessary portion using a photoresist technique as described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 172554 etc.

Thus as shown in first a photosensitive resin layer containing conductive fine particles is formed on the transparent support by a coating method etc. Then as shown in a photomask having a mask pattern is placed on the photosensitive resin layer and the photosensitive resin layer is irradiated with a light e.g. an ultraviolet light through the photomask .

As shown in unexposed areas of the photosensitive resin layer which are not irradiated with the light is removed in a development treatment whereby a conductive layer having a pattern corresponding to the mask pattern is formed on the transparent support .

The base material for the processes will be described below. A support such as a plastic film a plastic plate or a glass plate is preferably used as the base material in the present invention.

Examples of materials for the plastic film and plastic plate include polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalates PET and polyethylene naphthalates polyolefins such as polyethylenes PE polypropylenes PP polystyrenes and EVA vinyl resins such as polyvinyl chlorides and polyvinylidene chlorides polyether ether ketones PEEK polysulfones PSF polyether sulfones PES polycarbonates PC polyamides polyimides acrylic resins and triacetyl celluloses TAC .

In the present invention it is preferred that the plastic film is a polyethylene terephthalate film from the viewpoints of transparency heat resistance handling and cost.

Electromagnetic shielding materials for displays have to be transparent. Thus in a case where the conductive material is used for the electromagnetic shielding material the support preferably has high transparency. In this case the total visible light transmittance of the plastic film or plate is preferably 70 to 100 more preferably 85 to 100 particularly preferably 90 to 100 . The plastic film and plastic plate may be colored as long as they do not interfere with the advantageous effects of the present invention.

In the present invention the plastic film and plastic plate may have a monolayer structure or a multilayer structure containing 2 or more layers.

In the present invention the glass plate used as the support is not particularly limited. In a case where the glass plate is used in the electromagnetic shielding film for a display the glass plate is preferably composed of a reinforced glass having a reinforcing layer on the surface. The reinforced glass can be prevented from breakage more easily as compared with unreinforced glasses. Further a reinforced glass obtained by air cooling is preferred from the safety viewpoint. If broken such a reinforced glass is divided into significantly small fragments having unsharp edges.

The transparent support is preferably composed of a flexible material. The transparent support is preferably a film having a width of 2 cm or more a length of 3 m or more and a thickness of 200 m or less and more preferably a film having a width of 20 cm or more a length of 30 m or more and a thickness of 150 m or less.

In the present invention the base material is particularly preferably the plastic film support. It is more preferred that the support is subjected to a surface treatment such as a corona discharge treatment a glow discharge treatment a UV ultraviolet exposure treatment a flame treatment or a saponification treatment. It is further preferred that an adhesion promoting primer layer containing a polymer such as an acrylic polymer a urethane polymer a polyester a butadiene polymer or a vinylidene chloride polymer is formed on a surface of the support.

In the conductive material producing method of the present invention after depositing the conductive fine particles on the base material surface the base material is electrified in the solution containing a metal ion which may be referred to as the metal ion containing activation solution hereinafter using the conductive fine particles as a cathode. This step is carried out with the purpose of increasing the electroless plating activity in the following electroless plating treatment of the conductive fine particles.

The conductive fine particles deposited on the base material by the above process are generally insufficient in conductivity for use in a light transmittable electromagnetic shielding material etc. due to the contact resistance between the particles the electric resistance of the dispersion binder the insufficient amount of the deposited particles etc. Therefore an additional metal layer is stacked on the fine particles by an electroplating or electroless plating treatment to increase the conductivity. However as described above the electroplating treatment has the disadvantage of low productivity due to the insufficient conductivity of the base material.

Also the electroless plating treatment has a disadvantage. Thus the developed silver formed on the photosensitive silver halide material etc. has an insufficient electroless plating activity. Though many techniques for improving the insufficient activity have been tested a satisfactory technique has not been developed as described above. Furthermore the conductive fine particles deposited by the printing process etc. are coated with the dispersion binder to reduce the electroless plating activity. In fact such particles generally do not have electroless plating activity other than particular particles such as palladium particles.

Under such circumstances where conventional techniques have problems in the electroplating and electroless plating treatments for stacking the additional metal layer the inventors has found that the electroless plating activity of the conductive fine particles can be greatly improved by electrifying the material in the solution containing a metal ion the metal ion containing activation solution using the conductive fine particles as a cathode. The present invention has been accomplished based on this finding. The electrifying step is carried out with the purpose of applying a trace amount of a catalyst metal onto the conductive fine particles to increase the electroless plating activity. The electrifying step of the present invention requires only an extremely smaller amount of current as compared with the electroplating treatment for stacking the metal layer. Therefore the method of the present invention can be used even when the conductivity of the base material is insufficient for the electroplating treatment. In other words the method of the present invention is particularly effective when the base material has an insufficient conductivity and thereby is not suitable for the electroplating. Thus the advantageous effects of the present invention are less significant when the base material has a sufficient conductivity and thereby is suitable for the electroplating. Specifically in the present invention after the step of depositing the conductive fine particles the surface resistance of the base material is preferably 5 to 10 000 sq more preferably 10 to 1 000 sq.

In the electrifying step of the present invention electricity is applied to the base material having the conductive fine particles while conveying the base material in a bath filled with the metal ion containing activation solution. The electricity may be preferably applied by using a roller shaped metal electrode placed out of the bath. A counter positive electrode is placed in the activation solution in the bath and a portion of the conductive fine particles immersed in the activation solution acts as a negative electrode. Even when the base material has an insufficient conductivity by carrying out the conveyance and the electricity application simultaneously in this manner the current can be prevented from being concentrated in the vicinity of the electrode and the ununiformity can be reduced. Thus in this manner even when the base material has an insufficient conductivity a large area and a sheet web or roll shape the electricity can be uniformly applied thereto.

The preferred electrifying current depends on the conductivity of the conductive fine particles. When the current is too low the electroless plating activity cannot be obtained. When the current is too high the conductive fine particle wire may be broken. Thus the current is preferably 0.01 to 10 A dm more preferably 0.05 to 5 A dm particularly preferably 0.1 to 1 A dm.

When the electrifying time is too short the electroless plating activity cannot be obtained. When the electrifying time is too long particularly the conductive fine particles in the vicinity of the electrode are disadvantageously precedes electroplating resulting in nonuniform metal deposition. Thus the electrifying time is preferably 0.01 to 60 seconds more preferably 0.1 to 30 seconds.

The positive electrode used as a counter electrode in the electrification may be appropriately selected from soluble positive electrodes and insoluble positive electrodes depending on the metal ion in the activation solution. The soluble positive electrode is preferably composed of a metal of the same type as the metal ion. The insoluble positive electrode is preferably composed of carbon platinum platinum coated titanium etc. Specifically when the metal ion is a copper ion the material of the soluble positive electrode is preferably phosphorus containing copper electrolytic copper oxygen free copper etc. particularly preferably phosphorus containing copper. When the metal ion is a nickel ion the material of the soluble positive electrode is particularly preferably electrolytic nickel and also sulfur containing nickel carbonized nickel depolarized nickel etc. can be preferably used. The positive electrode may have a plate bar pellet ball or chip shape and may be put in a titanium basket etc. An anode bag may be used to prevent anode slime.

Though the reason why the conductive material reduces its resistance value by electrification has not yet defined it is assumed that the factor is activation of the low active components such as metal oxide deposited on the surfaces of the conductive particles. Plating progresses efficiently by performing the plating step immediately after the electrifying step.

The composition of the metal ion containing activation solution used in the present invention will be described below. In the present invention the term metal means a metal other than alkaline metals and alkaline earth metals unless otherwise noted. Thus a solution containing an ion of an alkaline metal such as sodium or potassium or an alkaline earth metal such as calcium or strontium is not used as the metal ion containing activation solution of the present invention. The activation solution of the present invention may contain a metal ion suitable for the electroless plating step. Specifically the activation solution preferably contains an ion of iron cobalt nickel copper ruthenium rhodium palladium silver iridium platinum gold tin zinc aluminum magnesium titanium or chromium or a mixture thereof. Ions of bismuth antimony arsenic manganese lead and the like are not suitable for the activation solution because they inhibit the electroless plating. The metal ion in the activation solution is preferably an ion of iron nickel copper silver cobalt zinc or tin more preferably an ion of iron nickel copper cobalt or tin most preferably a divalent copper ion.

The metal ion used in the metal ion containing activation solution may be equal to or different from a metal ion used in the electroless plating step. The metal ion in the activation solution may be appropriately selected from ions that do not disturb the electroless plating activity and do not form a displacement plating layer in the electroless plating step. It is preferred that the metal ion in the activation solution is equal to that used in the electroless plating step because the displacement plating is not caused.

The amount of the metal ion in the solution to be electrified is significantly smaller than that in the normal electroplating bath. The amount of the metal plated in the electrifying step is also as minute as 1 10 times or less the amount of the metal plated in the following electroless plating step. It may be 1 100 times or smaller. The lower limit of the amount of the metal plated in the electrifying step may be 1 10000 or 1 1000 times the amount of the metal plated in the following electroless plating step. That is the electrifying step of the present invention is different from the normal electroplating.

Preferred examples of components other than the metal ion in the metal ion containing activation solution include complexing agents pH regulators such as acids and alkalis pH buffers surfactants antioxidants such as hydroquinone tiron and ascorbic acid and salts such as alkaline metal salts quarternary alkyl ammonium salts perchlorate salts borate salts and thiocyanate salt. The activation solution may further contain an amino acid such as glycine polyethylene glycol a nitrogen containing additive such as 2 2 bipyridyl or phenanthroline a sulfur containing additive such as a thiourea compound a thiazole compound a mercapto compound or a disulfide compound etc.

Preferred complexing agents used in the present invention include inorganic complexing agents such as tetrapolyphosphoric acid hexametaphosphoric acid and pyrophosphoric acid and organic complexing agents such as organic carboxylic acids aminopolycarboxylic acids organic phosphonic acids aminophosphonic acids and organic phosphonocarboxylic acids.

Examples of the organic carboxylic acids include acrylic acid oxalic acid malonic acid succinic acid glutaric acid adipic acid pimelic acid azelaic acid sebacic acid nonanedicarboxylic acid decanedicarboxylic acid undecanedicarboxylic acid maleic acid itaconic acid malic acid citric acid and tartaric acid.

Examples of the aminopolycarboxylic acids include iminodiacetic acid nitrilotriacetic acid nitrilotripropionic acid ethylenediaminemonohydroxyethyltriacetic acid ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid glycol ether tetraacetic acid 1 2 diaminopropanetetraacetic acid diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid triethylenetetraminehexaacetic acid 1 3 diamino 2 propanoltetraacetic acid glycol ether diaminetetraacetic acid and compounds described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 52 25632 55 67747 and 57 102624 and Japanese Patent Publication No. 53 40900 etc.

Examples of the organic phosphonic acids include hydroxyalkylidene diphosphonic acids described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 214 454 and 3 794 591 and German Patent Publication No. 2227639 etc. and compounds described in Vol. 181 Item 18170 May issue 1979 .

Examples of the aminophosphonic acids include aminotris methylenephosphonic acid ethylenediaminetetramethylenephosphonic acid aminotrimethylenephosphonic acid and compounds described in Vol. 181 Item 18170 Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 57 208554 54 61125 55 29883 and 56 97347 etc.

Examples of the organic phosphonocarboxylic acids include compounds described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 52 102726 53 42730 54 121127 55 4024 55 4025 55 126241 55 65955 and 55 65956 and Research Disclosure Vol. 181 Item 18170 etc. The chelating agents may be used in the state of an alkali metal salt or an ammonium salt.

In the present invention the complexing agent is particularly preferably an ethylenediaminetetraacetate salt a triethanolamine salt a tartrate salt an acetate salt a citrate salt or a pyrophosphate salt. In a case where the metal ion in the activation solution is equal to that used in the electroless plating step it is preferred that also the complexing agent in the activation solution is equal to that used in the electroless plating step.

Though the complexing agent is not essential to the present invention it is preferred that the complexing agent is used to expand a region to be activated. Since the conductive fine particles are insufficient in conductivity only a part of the particles in the vicinity of the electrode is activated by the electrification. Thus to activate a wider region the electricity has to be applied while conveying the base material as described above. In the case of using the complexing agent also a part more distant from the electrode can be activated. In this case the base material can be conveyed at a higher rate in the electrification to improve the productivity and the uniformity of the plating can be improved.

The complexing agent is not essential to the present invention and the content thereof can be determined arbitrary. Preferably the content is 0.0001 to 10 mol L more preferably 0.001 to 2.0 mol L particularly preferably 0.001 to 1.0 mol L.

The preferred content of the metal ion in the metal ion containing activation solution depends on the conductivity of the conductive fine particles. When the content of the metal ion is too low the electroless plating activity cannot be obtained. When the content is too high the electroplating proceeds only in the vicinity of the electrode resulting in increased ununiformity. The metal ion content is 0.0001 to 10 mol per 1 L. The upper limit of the metal ion content is preferably 2 mol more preferably 1 mol per 1 L. On the other hand the lower limit of the metal ion content is preferably 0.0002 mol more preferably 0.0004 mol per 1 L. The mole ratio of the complexing agent to the metal ion is preferably 1 to 100 more preferably 2 to 10.

The step of electrification in the metal ion containing activation solution using the conductive fine particles as the cathode according to the present invention is greatly different from conventional electroplating processes in preferred metal ion concentration current value and electrifying time. In the present invention this step is carried out with the purpose of increasing the electroless plating activity as described above and the metal is deposited from the metal ion containing activation solution on the conductive fine particles only in a trace amount. Thus as compared with conventional electroplating solutions the activation solution according to the present invention is used under a lower metal ion concentration a smaller current amount and a shorter electrifying time.

The method of the present invention is greatly different also from the above described technique for increasing electroless plating rate which contains applying a current or a negative electric potential using a material to be plated as a negative electrode in an electroless plating solution. The metal ion containing activation solution used in the electrification in the present invention does not need to have electroless plating activity and preferably does not have electroless plating activity in view of preventing metal deposition on the positive electrode. It is preferred that the metal ion containing activation solution with no electroless plating activity is free of reducing agents or contains a reducing agent at a controlled pH at which the reducing agent is nonfunctional.

In the present invention the electroless plating treatment may be carried out using a known electroless plating technique. For example copper nickel chromium zinc tin gold platinum or silver may be used as an electroless plating metal in the treatment. It is preferred that copper is used as the metal from the viewpoints of conductivity and plating stability.

The electroless plating time is preferably 15 seconds to 30 minutes more preferably 30 seconds to 15 minutes further preferably 1 to 10 minutes. When the electroless plating time is more than 30 minutes the transparency of a light transmittable portion is remarkably reduced. The reduction seems to be caused such that a gelatin film is immersed in a high alkaline bath for a long time and thereby deteriorated. When the electroless plating time is less than 30 seconds the resultant plated layer has remarkably uneven thickness.

The electroless plating temperature is preferably 10 C. to 80 C. more preferably 15 C. to 70 C. further preferably 18 C. to 65 C.

In the electroless copper plating treatment a copper electroless plating solution for the treatment is preferably aerated continuously or stepwise. The dissolved oxygen amount of the solution is preferably maintained at 2 to 4 ppm by the aeration. An impurity or precipitate in the solution is preferably removed by filtration.

The electroless copper plating solution used in the present invention may be known one containing a copper ion a reducing agent a complexing agent a stabilizer a pH regulator etc.

Copper sulfate or a hydrate thereof copper chloride or copper oxide is preferably used as a metal salt for supplying the copper ion. Copper sulfate pentahydrate is particularly preferred from the viewpoint of cost. The reducing agent is preferably formaldehyde glyoxylic acid hydrazine dimethylamine borane a phosphinate salt a tetrahydroborate salt etc. particularly preferably formaldehyde. The complexing agent is preferably EDTA TIPA triethanolamine a tartrate salt etc. particularly preferably EDTA or triethanolamine. The stabilizer is preferably yellow prussiate of potash 2 2 bipyridyl thiourea a cyanide o phenanthroline Neocuproin etc. The electroless copper plating solution preferably contains an additive for stabilizing the bath or improving smoothness of a plated film such as polyethylene glycol a thiourea compound or an amino acid glycine adenine etc. Further the electroless copper plating solution preferably contains a counter salt of the copper ion source e.g. sodium sulfate in the case of using copper sulfate or an oxide of the reducing agent e.g. sodium formate in the case of using formaldehyde to maintain the uniform liquid composition.

The amount of the bath stabilizer is preferably 1 10to 1 10mol L more preferably 1 10to 1 10mol L. The concentration of the copper ion is preferably 0.001 to 0.3 mol L more preferably 0.005 to 0.1 mol L further preferably 0.01 to 0.1 mol L. The concentration of the complexing agent is preferably 0.5 to 10 times more preferably 0.8 to 4 times the copper ion concentration by mol L. The concentration of the reducing agent is preferably 0.001 to 1 mol L more preferably 0.01 to 1 mol L further preferably 0.1 to 0.7 mol L in view of achieving satisfactory plating solution stability and plating rate. The preferred pH of the solution depends on the reducing agent. In the case of using formaldehyde as the reducing agent the pH is preferably 10 to 13.5 more preferably 11 to 12.8. In the case of using phosphinic acid as the reducing agent the pH is preferably 8 to 13.

An embodiment of a producing apparatus capable of easily subjecting the long base material to be plated shown in to the above electrification treatment and electroless plating treatment will be described below with reference to . Of course this producing apparatus can be used for the material having the conductive fine particles deposited by the printing or photoresist process.

By using the producing apparatus the base material to be plated is electrified in the metal ion containing solution using the metallic silver portion as a cathode as shown in and then the electrification treated base material is subjected to the electroless plating treatment whereby a plated layer is deposited only on the metallic silver portion as shown in .

As shown in a producing apparatus according to this embodiment may be such that an electrifying unit having a metal feed roller and an anode and an electroless plating unit are disposed in this order in the direction of conveying the base material whereby the base material is subjected to the electrification treatment and the electroless plating treatment in this order.

In the electrifying unit according to this embodiment the base material to be plated which is exposed and developed to form the fine wire metallic silver portion is electrified so that the metallic silver portion is activated.

Specifically for example as shown in the electrifying unit has the feed roller which is brought into contact with the metallic silver portion of the base material to be plated and applies electricity to the metallic silver portion . An elastic roller for pressing the metallic silver portion of the base material to the feed roller is disposed on substantially the same level as the feed roller with the base material in between.

The elastic roller has a rotatably supported shaft and a surface elastic layer . The elastic layer is composed of a urethane rubber etc. A pressing device is disposed on each end of the shaft in the elastic roller such that the rotation of the shaft is not inhibited by the pressing device . The pressing device has a casing and a spring disposed therein. A contact member is pressed toward the shaft by the spring . The back side of the spring is in contact with an adjusting screw disposed on the casing . A force for pressing the base material to be plated to the feed roller can be changed by controlling the engaging position of the adjusting screw .

The electrifying unit has an electrifying bath filled with a metal ion containing activation solution disposed downstream of the feed roller in the direction of conveying the base material to be plated .

In the electrifying unit the base material to be plated is conveyed by an in liquid roller in the metal ion containing activation solution in the electrifying bath while the metallic silver portion being in contact with the feed roller . Electricity is applied by a direct current power source to the cathode of the feed roller and the anode placed in the metal ion containing activation solution in the electrifying bath . Thus the metallic silver portion of the base material is activated.

The feed roller preferably has a metal electrode. The diameter of the feed roller is preferably 1 to 20 cm particularly preferably 2 to 10 cm. The distance between the feed roller and the metal ion containing activation solution is preferably 5 mm to 30 cm particularly preferably 1 to 5 cm. When these values are within the ranges the distance La between the activation solution and the contact point of the base material and the feed roller can be reduced whereby the metallic silver portion of the base material can be prevented from being oxidized before the base material is immersed in the activation solution . In a particularly preferred embodiment the distance between the feed roller and the activation solution may be less than 1 cm and the feed roller may be placed on or in the activation solution . In this embodiment the oxidization of the metallic silver portion of the base material can be more effectively prevented after electrifying the base material .

The surface roughness of the feed roller is preferably 1 to 50 m particularly preferably 2 to 20 m in view of holding and scratching of the base material to be plated .

By the electrification treatment using the electrifying unit the surface to be plated of the metallic silver portion on the base material is activated in this manner. Thus the following plating treatment can be rapidly completed without plating fog whereby the conductive material can be mass produced.

The electrifying unit may further have a washing device for washing out the metal ion containing activation solution or the like attached to the base material after the treatment.

The feed roller is composed of SUS316 SUS316J1 SUS317 or SUS317L which may be coated with a copper material. The feed roller may have an electrical discharge treated surface. The surface roughness Ry of the feed roller is preferably at least 5 m and less than 30 m more preferably at least 10 m and less than 25 m. The surface roughness Ra thereof is preferably 0.5 to 5 m more preferably 1 to 2.5 m. In the present invention the surface roughnesses Ry and Ra are values according to JIS B 0601 1994 and may be measured by SJ 400 manufactured by Mitutoyo Corporation.

The elastic layer of the elastic roller is composed of a conductive rubber having a hardness of 10 to 70 degree and a thickness of about 5 mm. In the present invention the hardness of the elastic layer may be measured by ASKER C manufactured by Kobunshi Keiki Co. Ltd.

The force for pressing the base material to be plated to the feed roller can be changed by controlling the engaging position of the adjusting screw attached to the backside of the spring . The pressure in the nip part between the feed roller and the elastic roller is preferably 0.2 to 0.6 MPa more preferably 0.3 to 0.5 MPa. In the present invention the pressure may be measured by a two sheet type extremely ultralow pressure Fuji Prescale manufactured by FUJIFILM Corporation. The Fuji Prescale contains two films a coloring agent microcapsule is applied to a support of one film and a developer is applied to the other. When the microcapsule of the coloring agent is broken under the pressure in the nip part the coloring agent is adsorbed to and chemically reacted with the developer to form a red color.

The feed roller can be brought into substantially uniform contact with the base material to be plated by pressing the elastic roller toward the feed roller . When the pressure in the nip part between the feed roller and the elastic roller is less than 0.2 MPa the feed roller is hardly brought into the substantially uniform contact with the base material . On the other hand when the pressure in the nip part is more than 0.6 MPa the resistance to the transport of the base material between the feed roller and the elastic roller is increased so that it is difficult to stably convey the base material .

In the electroless plating unit the base material to be plated having the fine wire metallic silver portion is subjected to the electroless plating treatment so that a metal is deposited on the metallic silver portion to form the plated layer see .

Specifically as shown in the electroless plating unit has a plating bath filled with a plating solution and a plurality of support rollers two support rollers in this embodiment disposed in the plating bath . The base material to be plated is horizontally transported in the plating bath . In the electroless plating unit a plurality of transport support rollers for supporting and transporting the base material are disposed upstream and downstream of the plating bath .

A known electroless plating technique for a printed circuit board etc. may be used in the electroless plating treatment. The electroless plating treatment is preferably an electroless copper plating treatment. Specifically the plating solution is preferably an electroless copper plating solution. Examples of chemical species contained in the electroless copper plating solution include copper sulfate copper chloride and the like reducing agents such as formalin and glyoxylic acid ligands capable of coordinating to copper such as EDTA TIPA and triethanolamine and additives for stabilizing the bath or improving the smoothness of a plated film such as polyethylene glycol yellow prussiate of potash bipyridine and thiourea compounds. Further an additive for improving the stability of the plating solution such as an EDTA ligand may be contained in the plating solution .

The base material to be plated is horizontally conveyed between the support rollers in the plating bath and a plurality of spraying members for spraying a microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid toward the base material are arranged below the base material along the path thereof. The microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid plating solution containing microscopic bubbles is a mixture fluid of the plating solution and air and a gas liquid mixture supplying device is used to supply the microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid to the spraying members .

The gas liquid mixture supplying device has a pipe for connecting the bottom of a supply portion and the spraying members . The supply portion is divided from the plating bath by a partition and a circulating pump and a filter are disposed on the pipe . Further the gas liquid mixture supplying device has an air bubble removing bath above the plating bath and has pipes for connecting the bottom of the plating bath to the supply portion through the air bubble removing bath . A circulating pump and a gas liquid mixer are disposed on the pipe .

The microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid is introduced through the gas liquid mixer and the pipe to the air bubble removing bath . The pipe is connected to the bottom of the air bubble removing bath and a shuttering board is disposed in the air bubble removing bath below the liquid surface. The pipe is connected to the bottom of the air bubble removing bath and is inserted to the top of the supply portion . The pipe and the pipe are connected to the air bubble removing bath at opposite sides of the shuttering board . The microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid is introduced through the pipe to the bottom of the air bubble removing bath and air bubbles in the fluid float on the liquid surface. Thus the air bubbles are removed from the microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid and then the fluid is moved over the shuttering board to the supply portion through the pipe connected to the bottom of the air bubble removing bath .

The microscopic bubble gas liquid mixture fluid in the supply portion is introduced through the pipe connected to the bottom of the supply portion and the filter to the spraying members and sprayed from the spraying members onto the base material to be plated . When the base material is conveyed in the plating solution in the plating bath the metallic silver portion of the base material is electroless plated. Further by spraying the microscopic bubble liquid mixture the plating solution in the plating bath can be stirred mixed and thereby uniformized.

The present invention will be described more specifically below with reference to Examples. Materials amounts ratios treatment contents treatment procedures and the like used in Examples may be changed without departing from the scope of the invention. The following embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

A base material was prepared by the following procedure and coated with a photosensitive silver halide material. The photosensitive silver halide material was exposed in a mesh pattern and developed whereby conductive fine particles of developed silver were deposited on the base material. The conductive fine particles formed a mesh pattern of lines which were disposed at a regular interval at angles of 45 and 135 against the longitudinal direction of the ribbon shaped base material. The mesh pattern had a line width of 12 m and a space width of 288 m. Thus obtained conductive base material is referred to as a conductive base material A. The conductive base material A had a surface resistance of 200 sq and a transmittance of 85 to a D65 light source. The surface resistance was measured by LORESTA GP manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation utilizing a four probe method.

The emulsion surface and back surface of a biaxially stretched polyethylene terephthalate support having a thickness of 100 m were each coated with a first undercoat layer and a second undercoat layer having the following compositions in this order. The layers were formed by a bar coating method and the support was subjected to a corona discharge treatment before the coating.

Further 10 by weight of KOH was added to the above composition to adjust the pH to 6 and the resultant coating liquid was applied such that the dry thickness of the first undercoat layer was 0.9 m after drying at 180 C. for 2 minutes.

The coating liquid having the above composition was applied such that the dry thickness of the second undercoat layer was 0.1 m after drying at 170 C. for 2 minutes.

The coating liquid having the above composition was applied such that the dry thickness of the first undercoat layer was 0.9 m after drying at 180 C. for 2 minutes.

The coating liquid having the above composition was applied such that the dry thickness of the second undercoat layer was 0.1 m after drying at 170 C. for 2 minutes.

An aqueous alkali halide solution containing silver nitrate sodium chloride and potassium bromide was added to an aqueous gelatin solution while being stirred by a controlled double jet method and a potassium iodide solution was further added thereto. Potassium hexachloroiridate III and ammonium hexachlororhodate were added to the alkali halide whereby particles were doped with Rh and Ir ions. The amount of each of the Rh and Ir ions was 10mol per 1 mol of silver.

The resultant was water washed and demineralized by a flocculation method and gelatin was added thereto to adjust the pH at 5.6 and the pAg at 7.5. Sodium benzenethiosulfonate sodium benzenethiosulfinate and 1 3 3a 7 tetrazaindene were added thereto and further sodium thiosulfate and chlorauric acid were added to conduct a chemical sensitization for achieving an optimum sensitivity at 55 C. The amount of each of the sodium benzenethiosulfonate sodium benzenethiosulfinate and 1 3 3a 7 tetrazaindene was 10mol per 1 mol of silver.

A cubic silver iodochlorobromide particle emulsion A which contained 70 mol of silver chloride 29.2 mol of silver bromide and 0.08 mol of silver iodide and had an average particle diameter of 0.18 m and a variation coefficient of 7 was prepared in this manner.

The base material was coated simultaneously with a UL layer and an emulsion layer having the following compositions in this order to obtain a photosensitive silver halide material A. The preparation coating amount and coating method of each layer are described below.

5.7 10mol mol Ag of a sensitizing dye SD 2 was added to the emulsion A to conduct spectral sensitization. 3.4 10mol mol Ag of KBr and 8.0 10mol mol Ag of a compound Cpd 3 were added to the emulsion and further 1.2 10mol mol Ag of 1 3 3a 7 tetrazaindene 1.2 10mol mol Ag of hydroquinone 3.0 10mol mol Ag of citric acid and surfactants Sa 1 Sa 2 and Sa 3 application amount 60 mg m 40 mg mand 2 mg m were added thereto. Thus obtained emulsion layer coating liquid was applied to a support to be hereinafter described. The amounts of Ag and gelatin applied were 2.0 g mand 0.3 g m respectively.

The resultant emulsion layer had an applied silver amount of 2.0 g m an Ag gelatin weight ratio of 6.7 and a swelling ratio of 1.9. The photosensitive silver halide material A had the emulsion layer as the uppermost layer.

The swelling ratio of the emulsion layer was obtained as follows. A segment of a sample was observed by a scanning electron microscope during a drying process to obtain a thickness a of the emulsion layer during drying. The segment was immersed in distilled water having a temperature of 25 C. for 1 minute freeze dried using liquid nitrogen and observed by the scanning electron microscope to obtain a thickness b of the swelled emulsion layer. The swelling ratio was calculated using the following formula Swelling ratio 100 b a a .

The above liquid was applied to a PET support having a width of 30 cm. The liquid was applied into a width of 28 cm and a length of 100 m and the both end portions having width of 1.5 cm of the PET support were cut off to obtain a roll photosensitive silver halide material having a width of 27 cm.

The photosensitive silver halide material A was exposed by using a continuous exposure apparatus. In the apparatus exposure heads using a DMD a digital mirror device described in an embodiment of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2004 1244 were arranged into a width of 55 cm. The exposure heads and exposure stages were arranged on a curved line to concentrate laser lights onto the photosensitive layer of the photosensitive material. Further in the apparatus a feeding mechanism and a winding mechanism for the photosensitive material were disposed and a buffering bend was formed such that the speed in the exposure part was not affected by change of the exposure surface tension and feeding and winding speeds. The light for the exposure had a wavelength of 405 nm and a beam shape of 12 m square and the output of the laser light source was 100 J.

The photosensitive material was exposed in a lattice pattern with a width of 27 cm and a length of 75 cm. In the pattern 12 m pixels were tilted at 45 degrees to the longitudinal direction at a pitch of 300 m.

The exposed photosensitive material was treated with a developer and a fixer having the following compositions by using an automatic processor FG 710PTS manufactured by FUJIFILM Corporation. The development treatment was carried out at 35 C. for 30 seconds the fixation treatment was carried out at 34 C. for 23 seconds and then a water washing treatment was carried out for 20 seconds at a water flow rate of 5 L min. The conductive base material A having the conductive fine particles of the developed silver on the base material was prepared in this manner.

The obtained conductive base material A was subjected to an electrification treatment 1 1 using a metal ion containing activation solution 1 1 having the following composition.

A cylindrical stainless feed roller having a diameter of 1 cm was placed as a power feeding electrode at a distance of 2 cm from the liquid surface of the activation solution 1 1. A nipping rubber roller was placed in the vicinity of the feed roller and the conductive base material A was transported to and perpendicularly immersed in the activation solution while being nipped between the feed roller and the rubber roller. A plate shaped phosphorus containing copper positive electrode was placed as a positive electrode in the activation solution at a distance of 2 cm from the conductive base material A. The base material A was disposed such that the conductive layer surface was in contact with the feed roller and faced the positive electrode. A voltage was applied to the feed roller and the positive electrode by an external direct current power source whereby the electrification treatment was carried out in the metal ion containing solution using the conductive fine particles as a cathode. The activation solution had a temperature of 25 C. in the electrification treatment and the stationary conductive base material A having a width of 27 cm was electrified at 2.7 A 0.67 A dmin current density for 3 seconds. The feed roller was composed of a stainless steel and had a hydrogen overvoltage of 0.1 V vs. NHE. The mesh pattern the conductive metal portion formed by the exposure and development had a hydrogen overvoltage of 0.2 V vs. NHE.

The metal ion containing activation solution 1 1 had the following composition. The solvent was pure water.

The conductive base material A which was subjected to the electrification treatment 1 1 was washed with a tap water at 25 C. for 1 minute. Then the conductive base material A was subjected to an electroless plating treatment using an electroless plating solution having the following composition and water washed and dried to obtain a sample 1 1 according to the present invention.

The electroless plating solution was an electroless Cu plating solution having a pH of 12.5 which contained 0.06 mol L of copper sulfate 0.2 mol L of formalin 0.24 mol L of EDTA 100 ppm of polyethylene glycol 10 ppm of yellow prussiate of potash and 10 ppm of 2 2 bipyridyl. The electroless copper plating treatment was carried out at 55 C. for 10 minutes.

Samples 1 2 to 1 12 were produced in the same manner as the sample 1 1 except for changing the activation solution used in the electrification treatment and the electrification conditions to those shown in Table 1. The activation solutions shown in Table 1 had the following compositions.

The activation solution 1 2 was prepared in the same manner as the activation solution 1 1 except that 0.06 mol L of potassium pyrophosphate was used instead of EDTA and the pH was controlled at 8.

The activation solution 1 3 was prepared in the same manner as the activation solution 1 1 except that 0.06 mol L of Rochelle salt potassium sodium tartrate was used instead of EDTA and the pH was controlled at 12.5.

The activation solution 1 4 was prepared in the same manner as the activation solution 1 1 except that 0.03 mol L of triethanolamine was used instead of EDTA and the pH was controlled at 12.5.

The activation solution 1 5 was prepared in the same manner as the activation solution 1 1 except that EDTA and NaOH were not added and an aqueous solution containing 0.015 mol L of copper sulfate pentahydrate was obtained.

The activation solution 1 8 was an aqueous solution containing 0.004 mol L of stannous chloride 0.004 mol L of hydrochloric acid and 0.2 g L of tiron.

The activation solution 1 10 was prepared in the same manner as the activation solution 1 1 except that the copper sulfate pentahydrate was not added and the amount of NaOH was changed to control the pH at 12.5.

The activation solution 1 11 was prepared in the same manner as the activation solution 1 1 except that the copper sulfate pentahydrate EDTA and NaOH were not added.

Samples 1 13 and 1 14 were produced in the same manner as the sample 1 1 except that the electrification conductions were changed to those shown in Table 1 and that the electroless plating is not performed.

The samples according to the present invention had copper metal layer meshes formed by the electroless copper plating treatments. As shown in Table 1 the conductive material samples having the conductive metal layers were effectively produced with lowered surface resistances.

In contrast the sample electrified in the activation solution free of metal ions and the sample not electrified using the metal ion containing activation solution did not have a plated copper layer and the surface resistances thereof were not lowered. The surface resistance was obtained by measuring the center in the width direction of each sample at a position 2 cm below the liquid surface in the electrification using the above described meter.

Further the sample 1 13 was produced in the same manner as the samples 1 1 to 1 9 except that the electroless plating treatments were not carried out after the electrification in the metal ion containing activation solution. The sample 1 14 was also prepared in the same manner as the sample 1 13 except for the electrification time prolonged. The surface resistance values of the samples were measured. As a result the samples were not lowered in the surface resistance. As is clear from that the above a conductive metal layer is hardly formed in the electrification in the metal ion containing activation solution according to the present invention. The electrification in the metal ion containing activation solution according to the present invention is carried out to increase the activity of the base material in the following electroless plating step and is greatly different from conventional electroplating treatments for forming a metal layer.

A sample 2 1 a conductive material according to the present invention was produced in the same manner as the sample 1 1 of Example 1 except for adding 30 mg L of sodium chloride 100 mg L of PEG1000 10 mg L of Janus green B and 10 mg L of bis 3 sulfopropyl disulfide to the activation solution.

Samples 2 2 to 2 17 were produced respectively in the same manner as the sample 2 1 except for changing the metal ion content the complexing agent content and the pH and the electrification conditions of the activation solution to those shown in Table 2. The pH was controlled by addition of NaOH or sulfuric acid. The produced samples were evaluated in terms of the following values.

The surface resistance of each sample was measured in the same manner as in Example 1 after the electroless plating.

After the electroless plating a portion of the plated layer of each sample disposed just below the activation solution surface was visually observed to evaluate the appearance. The appearance was evaluated and shown in Table 2 using the following standard.

5 The roughness of the plated layer was not observed and the plated layer had an excellent appearance.

3 The roughness was partly observed and the plated layer had a slight disadvantage in appearance in a particular use.

The size of a region in which the metal layer was formed by the electroless plating in each electroless plated sample was measured. The size of the region was evaluated and shown in Table 2 using the following standard. A portion having a surface resistance value of 5 sq or less was considered as the region with the metal layer and the length of the region was measured at the center in the width direction of each sample.

The samples according to the present invention other than the not electrified samples had plated copper layers formed by the electroless plating and lowered surface resistances. Thus a conductive material containing a conductive metal can be produced by the method of the present invention. The samples within the metal ion content the ratio of the metal ion to the complexing agent the amount of current in the electrification according to the preferred embodiments of the present invention achieves the effects of the present invention. It is clear from Table 2 that the roughness and expansion of the electroless plating can be improved by adding a complexing agent to the metal ion containing activation solution according to the present invention and by appropriately controlling the metal ion content. The samples 2 8 to 2 10 were produced using the activation solutions similar to a conventional copper electroplating solution which did not contain complexing agents had an increased copper ion content and had a pH controlled by sulfuric acid. Therefore the samples 2 8 to 2 10 were rough and insufficient in the expansion though they had the conductive layer. It is clear also from the results that the electrification in the metal ion containing activation solution according to the present invention is different from conventional electroplating treatments.

Conductive materials could be produced in the same manner as the samples 1 1 and 1 6 of Example 1 except for changing the above electroless plating solutions to the following nickel plating solutions.

A conductive material could be produced in the same manner as the sample 1 1 of Example 1 except for using a conductive base material B prepared by printing conductive fine silver particles on the base material instead of the conductive base material A. The conductive fine particles were printed by a method described in Example 2 of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2007 116137. The method will be described in detail below.

A 100 m thick transparent polyethylene naphthalate PEN film having a gelatin undercoat layer was used as a transparent plastic base material and a silver paste to be hereinafter described was screen printed thereon.

Then the film was heat treated at 150 C. for 60 minutes. Thus obtained film had a lattice silver mesh pattern having a line width of 20 m and a pitch of 300 m.

According to the Carey Lea method for preparing a silver sol see M. Carey Lear . Vol. 24 Page 297 1877 and ibid. Vol. 27 Page 279 1880 a silver nitrate solution was reduced to obtain fine silver particles mainly composed of silver. The solution was subjected to ultrafiltration to remove salt byproducts. Thus obtained fine particles had a particle size of about 10 nm measured by observation using an electronic microscope.

The particles were mixed with a binder and a solvent containing isopropyl alcohol to prepare the paste.

A sample 5 1 a web shaped conductive material was produced in the same manner as the sample 2 1 of Example 2 except that the conductive base material A was continuously electrified while conveying the conductive base material A. Thus the process of electrifying the conductive base material A and the process of transporting the conductive base material A into the metal ion containing activation solution while nipping between the feed roller and the rubber roller were simultaneously carried out continuously. The electrified web base material was subjected to the electroless plating treatment to obtain the web shaped conductive material. The conductive base material A was transported for 1 minute at a rate of 3 m minute and the electroless plating treatment time was the same as that of Example 2. The web shaped conductive material having a length of 3 m and a width of 27 cm was produced in this manner. The produced sample 5 1 had a uniform electroless plated copper layer over approximately entire surface and had a uniform surface resistance value of about 0.5 sq except for the ends of the web.

The sample 5 1 was subjected to the following electrolytic copper plating treatment blackening treatment and antirust treatment.

The plating bath treatment times and applied voltages are described below. A copper plating solution a washing water and an antirust solution had a temperature of 25 C. to 30 C. a blackening solution had a temperature of 45 C. and the drying temperature was 50 C. to 70 C. in the treatments. A plating apparatus used in the treatments was equal to that of Example 1 of Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2007 197809. Thus the plating treatment was carried out using an electrolytic plating apparatus which had a continuous structure containing an electrolytic plating bath substantially the same as a bath shown in of the patent publication and a bath for the next treatment connected thereto. Only an inlet side feed roller was used in the treatments and it was a mirrored stainless steel roller having a diameter of 10 cm and a length of 70 cm. The distance between the plating solution and the contact point of the feed roller and the mesh surface of the film was 9 cm. The line conveying rate was 3 m minute.

The obtained sample was a conductive material containing a transparent base material and a black conductive metal mesh layer formed thereon and the conductive layer had a total light transmittance of 80 a haze ratio of 3.5 and a surface resistance value of 0.1 sq. The sample had an appearance suitable for use in an electromagnetic shielding film of a plasma display material etc.

It is clear from this example that the conductive material producing method of the present invention can be combined with an electroplating treatment a blackening treatment etc. and the conductive material produced by the method of the present invention can have an excellent transparency suitable for use in a display device and a high conductivity sufficient for the purpose of electromagnetic shielding.

The conductive material producing method and the conductive material producing apparatus of the present invention are not limited to the above embodiments and various changes and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

