---

title: Methods and systems for quantum search, computation and memory
abstract: A system for performing multi-dimensional quantum search, quantum computation, quantum memory, quantum storage, and quantum retrieval includes a structure and method for: enabling components and systems for quantum search, and more particularly to improved local and remote quantum computing and search components and systems; quantum memory component and systems; quantum storage components and systems; quantum retrieval components and systems; quantum logic gates; classical (non-quantum) search components and systems; integrated quantum-classical search components and systems; and integrated quantum-classical cryptosystems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08190553&OS=08190553&RS=08190553
owner: 
number: 08190553
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20081217
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 008 863 entitled Multi dimensional Quantum Computation Search and Memory filed Dec. 21 2007 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 008 480 entitled Methods For Quantum Cryptosystem filed Dec. 20 2007 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to components and systems for quantum computing quantum search and more particularly to improved quantum search components and systems quantum computing components and systems quantum memory components and systems quantum storage components and systems quantum retrieval components and systems classical non quantum search components and systems integrated quantum classical computing components and systems integrated quantum classical search components and systems and integrated quantum classical cryptosystems.

Computing and networking are evolving to quantum expressions. Quantum computing is emerging as the natural outcome of computer miniaturization and performance trends pervading hardware and software components and systems. In order to continue to enhance computer and network throughput and application availability to meet local and global scale information requirements the following must be addressed components subsystems and systems must continue to support higher clock frequencies within shrinking chip geometries and diminishing memory latencies and logic components subsystems and systems need to be more energy efficient while avoiding serial architecture bottlenecks and resistance capacitance delays issues that are only temporarily addressed within classical non quantum parallel processing platforms.

Exponential improvements in component miniaturization memory processor power and marginal cost improvement trends are yielding single atom bit and single electron transistor SET computing environments. Component reduction and logic speed increase cannot continue beyond single atom bit and SET levels while remaining wholly within the realm of classical space time physics due to quantum effects that pervade the molecular atomic and sub atomic scales.

It is becoming increasingly necessary to use quantum effects to read bits from and write bits to the memory registers of nano scale molecular scale 10meter ngstr m scale atomic scale 10meter pico scale electronic and photonic scale 10meter and sub pico scale computing components subsystems and systems. However classical non quantum approaches to computer technology fabrication and operation increasingly encounter fundamental issues in terms of size component proximity energy and heat dissipation that are projected to increasingly interfere with error free operation of electronic photonic and opto electronic components logic circuits and systems intrinsic to nano ngstr m pico and sub pico scales.

Fundamental limits to classical non quantum computing include the number of atoms required to store one bit in a mass memory device reaches one the number of dopant atoms in a transistor reaches one machining and fabrication technologies attain a resolution of one atomic diameter and the energy dissipated by a single logic operation reaches kT for T 300 kelvins where k is Boltzmann s constant T is temperature and 300 kelvins is ambient room temperature approximately the energy of a single air molecule at ambient room temperature.

Erasure of one bit of information in a classical computing environment dissipates approximately ln natural logarithm 2 kT energy or 2.9 10joules equal to the kinetic energy of a single air molecule at ambient room temperature. Classical computers effectively erase one bit of information each time they perform a logic operation rendering nearly all classical logic operations effectively irreversible.

Continuing improvements in computer performance require commensurate reductions in the energy dissipated by each logic operation. Two alternative approaches to logic operation energy dissipation improvement include improve the efficiency with which information is erased and perform reversible logic operations that do not erase information and therefore dissipate arbitrarily little heat.

Referring to a graph of energy per logic computation from the 1940s to 2020 is shown. The energy cost of computing as measured in joules per logic operation must decrease dramatically to enable computer performance improvement to maintain its exponential growth. The data in were originally developed by Rolf Landauer in 1988 and updated by Brian Hayes in the March April 2006 issue of . Computational energy levels will soon encounter one electron volt 160 zeptojoules the energy of a single electron at a potential of one volt.

The reference to kT ln 2 in the graph of expresses a fundamental computational thermodynamic floor of approximately three zeptojoules. To function beneath this threshold computational logic operations are compelled to operate reversibly one of the hallmarks of quantum computation.

Of all the candidate technologies that continue to scale beyond the current classical era quantum logic has one unique feature it is not contained by classical space time physics. Moore s law is exponential any classical approach demands exponential increases in space or time. Even the Avogadro s number of elements in a molecular computer is quickly limited by the size of the exponential problem.

Fundamental force particles emerging from the Unified Field include 1 Photons for the Electromagnetic Force 2 Bosons for the Weak Force 3 Gluons for the Strong Force and 4 Gravitons for the Gravitational Force. Fundamental bases to quantum and ultimately classical computer and network systems are fermions and bosons. Electrons are fermions photons are bosons.

Fermions named after the Italian physicist Enrico Fermi and Fermi matter fields reside at Atto 10m through Zepto scales 10m and are the elementary particle basis to electronic computing and networking. There are ultimately 24 fermionic elementary particles plus bosonic elementary particles that mediate the four fundamental physical forces. Fermions have integer spin and cannot be in the same state due to the Pauli exclusion principle.

Electronic computing and networking is ultimately fermion based where N general octad space must be either 0 or 1 because there cannot be more than one fermion in a single state. This is shown by the Fermi Dirac distribution equation below as Equation 1 

Bosons named after the Indian physicist Satyendra Bose and Bose force fields reside at Atto 10m through Zepto scales 10m have integer spin and can share the same state. Photons are bosons particles whose spin is a whole number. Optical computing and networking are ultimately boson based where for bosons the sum over Nruns from 0 to as shown in the Bose Einstein distribution equation below as Equation 2 

The final result to the Bose Einstein distribution Equation 2 differs from that of the Fermi Dirac distribution Equation 1 by the presence of minus and plus signs respectively in the non exponent portion of the denominator. Bosons and fermions tend to generate canceling quantum mechanical contributions. When the quantum jitters of a boson are positive those of a fermion tend to be negative and vice versa. Since supersymmetry ensures that bosons and fermions occur in pairs substantial cancellations occur from the outset cancellations that ultimately calm the apparently frenzied quantum effects.

Dr. Richard P. Feynman Richard Chace Tolman Professor of Theoretical Physics at the California Institute of Technology CalTech and 1965 Nobel Laureate in Physics for work in quantum electrodynamics provided initial descriptions of quantum computation in an interdisciplinary course he presented at CalTech in conjunction with John Hopfield and Carver Mead during 1981 through 1986. The 1982 83 course handout provided an overview in areas that included a primer on computation computability and information theory with sections entitled Limits on Computation Arising in the Physical World and Fundamental Limits on Computation. During the fall of 1983 Feynman presented a course at CalTech entitled Potentials and Limitations of Computing Machines. 

Feynman s lecture courses set out to explore the limitations and potentials of computers and covered topics including Turing machines Shannon s theorem and information theory reversible computation thermodynamics limitations on computers due to quantum mechanics and quantum computation. Feynman presented an analysis of quantum mechanical computers at a meeting in Anaheim Calif. in June 1984 subsequently published in during February 1985.

During the same period in 1981 Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer at IBM Z rich developed scanning tunneling microscopy STM for which they shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1986. STM probes densities of states of materials using a quantum tunneling current resolves at better than 0.1 nanometer nm laterally and 0.01 nm in depth operates at temperatures ranging from near zero degrees Kelvin to a few hundred degrees Celsius and can be used equally effectively in vacuum air gas and liquid ambient environments.

STM imagery during the past quarter century reveals the degree of precision to which individual atoms and electrons can be physically manipulated and positioned as shown at the IBM STM Image Gallery IBM Research Almaden Research Center.

Parallel developments in information theory and applied computation during the past quarter century have ushered in the era of quantum computation impelling the foundation for equally precise manipulation positioning and use of quantum logic.

Quantum computing and networking accesses Hilbert space the one exponential resource previously untapped for computation and provides a development foundation that promises to ensure continuing advancement of Information Technology IT one of the world s leading economic sectors.

Quantum computation is based on the principles of quantum physics. Quantum computers in various stages of early development operate according to the rules of quantum mechanics governing the world of the very small the waves and particles intrinsic to the nano ngstr m pico scales and sub pico scales.

Quantum computers are projected to operate in truly parallel and real time fashion with both sequential and simultaneous processing built into their very nature. Quantum processing simultaneity ensures that all computational pathways are pursued at once as compared to serial processing of discrete tasks found in conventional computers. In other words each quantum operation acts on all system states simultaneously. Therefore one quantum machine cycle one tick of the quantum computer clock could theoretically compute all possible machine states at once.

Information search storage and retrieval using a plurality of quantum and integrated quantum classical methods provides a fundamental application breakthrough basis to sustained advances in the above fields and to a plurality of other fields of computational endeavour due to the inextricable interlinkage of related information emerging from prior structured and unstructured interrelationships and non dependencies.

Information search and retrieval within pre World Wide Web Web environments is fundamentally constrained to searches within small controlled non linked collections. Four examples of non linked computerized pre Web search approaches include Boolean models vector space models probabilistic models and meta search models adopted during the 1960s through 1980s and improved upon through the 2000s.

Boolean model based searching seeks to exactly match retrieved documents to user queries and employs Boolean algebra whereby search words are logically combined with Boolean operators such as AND OR and NOT. The Boolean AND of two logical statements x and y dictates that both x and y must be satisfied the Boolean OR of the same two logical statements requires that at least one of the statements must be satisfied.

The three Boolean operators AND OR NOT can also be combined generating the net result that candidate documents are determined to be relevant or irrelevant with no concept of partial match between queries and documents.

Boolean engines employing fuzzy Boolean logic often categorize documents as somewhat relevant. Two commonly encountered issues with Boolean search and retrieval are synonymy multiple words having the same meaning and polysemy single words having multiple meanings .

Vector space model based searching developed by Gerard Saltan during the early 1960s transforms textual data into numeric vectors and matrices and employs matrix analysis to discover key features and connections in retrieved document collections. Latent semantic indexing LSI a particular vector space model accesses the hidden semantic structure within document collections and returns documents whose keywords are semantically related.

Advantages associated with vector space models include relevance scoring and relevance feedback where retrieved documents are ordered in a list according to the document relevance score generally as a percentage of relevance.

Vector space information retrieval models are relatively compute intensive however and do not scale well due to their inherent requirement to compute distance measures between queries and documents. More recent vector space model based searching techniques such as LSI require singular value matrix decomposition while representing the entire document collection.

Probabilistic search models seek to estimate the probability that requesting users will determine retrieved documents to be relevant. Retrieved documents are ranked by the ratio of probability that they are relevant to the query divided by the probability that they are not. The major disadvantage associated with probilistic search models complexity limit scalability is a disadvantage shared with vector space models.

Meta search models seek to combine the approaches and benefits of Boolean vector space and probabilistic search models and direct queries to multiple search engines at once returning search results to the search requester within one unified list.

Web based information search and retrieval is tantamount to search and retrieval within the planet s largest linked document collection. Searching the World Wide Web has been likened to tracing connections among friends and acquaintances within social networks.

Web search engine elements include query independent crawler modules page repositories indexing modules and indexes as well as query dependent elements such as query modules and ranking modules the latter ranking module elements initiated in real time response to queries.

Examples of web page ranking modules include two classic link analysis systems called hypertext induced topic search HITS developed by Jon Kleinberg while at IBM Almaden in Silicon Valley and PageRank developed by Sergey Brin and Larry Page while at Stanford University now at Google . A common feature to both HITS and PageRank is utilization of the Web s hyperlink structure in terms of a massive directed graph.

Web graph nodes represent webpages and directed arcs or links represent hyperlinks. Hyperlinks into a given webpage are called inlinks and point into nodes hyperlinks pointing out from a given node are called outlinks. One central PageRank thesis is that a webpage is important to the degree to which it is pointed to by other important webpages whereas the HITS method uses both inlinks and outlinks to create webpage popularity scores for each given webpage.

A central PageRank equation is S 1 E see U.S. Pat. No. 6 285 999 for related information which incorporates a primitivity adjustment G S 1 1 n ee where is a scalar between 0 and 1 and G is the present Google matrix. In this model is a parameter that controls the proportion of time a random Web surfer follows hyperlinks as opposed to teleporting.

Suppose 0.6. Then 60 percent of the time a random Web surfer follows the hyperlink structure of the Web and the other 40 percent of the time the random surfer teleports to a random new page. Teleporting is random because the teleportation matrix E 1 n eeis uniform meaning the surfer is equally likely when teleporting to jump to any page.

To handle dangling nodes nodes dangling e.g. pdf files image files data tables the 0rows of a hyperlink matrix H are replaced with 1 ne thereby making H stochastic and primitive . As a result the random surfer after entering a dangling node is able to hyperlink to any page at random.

A primitive matrix is both irreducible and aperiodic. Therefore the stationary vector of the chain PageRank vector in the Google case exists is unique and can be found by a simple power iteration.

Connections between any two people within the world population have been shown to be linked by a chain of five or six acquaintances giving rise to a feature of social networks known as six degrees of separation after John Guare s Broadway play and movie based on studies published in 1967 by Stanley Migram a Harvard sociologist. Social networks are grouped in small clusters representing circles of friends and acquaintances in which each node person is connected to all other nodes through no greater than six links.

The World Wide Web personal networks power grid networks and the human brain alike exhibit small node separation and display high degrees of clustering. Initial models of the World Wide Web based on finite size scaling by Albert Laszlo Barabasi and others at Notre Dame during 1998 predicted the shortest path between two pages selected at random among an estimated 800 million nodes documents to be 19 the size of the Web was estimated during 1999 to be at least 8 10documents in terms of a large directed graph whose vertices are documents and whose edges are links URLs .

The existence of six or even 19 degrees of separation within social or Web networks respectively suggests that items are easy to locate in a small world. However search problems quickly become intractable when constrained to classical non quantum computing and networking technologies.

For example the average number of links on any given Web document is seven meaning that seven links can be followed from the first page 49 documents are two clicks away 343 documents are three clicks away and so forth.

On this basis nodes located 19 degrees away from the search request origin require searching through 10documents approximately 10 million 10 times greater than the estimated number of pages on the Web. While several links encountered in this example search point back to previously viewed pages even one second used to check single documents would require greater than 300 million 300 10 years to view all documents within 19 clicks.

Social and Web separation of 6 and 19 degrees respectively are diminishing in scale primarily due to the evolution of the Web itself. Web searching techniques do not require brute force analysis of all possible links due to use of contextual link interpretation creating an increasing number of logical paths with widely different limits between any two people or objects of interest.

Web search evolution may have already effectively reduced separation between any two people in the world to three degrees leading to highly interrelated and clustered small worlds. However weak link connections outside of clustered small worlds coupled with rapid increases in requirements for multi contextual searches rapidly exceed the capacities of massively parallel classical computing search engines and algorithms.

Quantum search problems can generally be formulated in terms of an oracle x that equals 1 unity for arguments x that solve the problem of interest where x may be for example a pair of integers x a check for prime factors. Alternatively x may be database entries and x a test for answers to a query.

Lov Grover 1996 showed that a quantum computer can solve a quantum search problem searching for N possibilities in O N steps O is variously referred to as Big Oh notation Landau notation Bachmann Landau notation or asymptotic notation as applied to searching in an unsorted database containing N items one of which is marked where the objective is to locate the unknown marked item by accessing the database a minimum number of times. Whereas classically an average of N 2 0.5N items must be tested before finding the correct one Graver s quantum search algorithm performs the same task with a complexity order of O N steps giving rise to a quadratic speed up relative to classical search techniques.

Grover also showed that it is possible for quantum mechanical systems to render interaction free measurements by making use of the duality properties of photons whereby the presence or absence of an object of inquiry can be deduced by allowing a small probability of a photon interacting with the object.

Classical searches for p 10for example require calculation of p x for nearly 10x to achieve a reasonable chance of success. Grover s procedure can theoretically achieve a probability of success extremely close to 1 unity by calling the quantum subroutine that evaluates p x fewer than 10times. In general Grover s search algorithm provides an improvement over random classical testing by a factor of 1 N.

Grover s search algorithm relies on a subroutine that operates on different numbers from a list of 2candidates until it produces the output 1 unity and calculates in the form of a unitary transformation U that acts on an n Qbit input register that contains x as well as a 1 Qbit register that is or is not flipped from 0 to 1 depending upon whether x is or is not the special number a as shown be Equation 3 below Equation 3

In essence Grover s search algorithm applies the product WV multiple times to the input register taken initially to be in the standard state where 1 is the projection operator on the standard state 2 V is linear and acts on a general superposition xx of computational basis states 3 V changes the sign of the component of the state along awhile leaving unchanged the component orthogonal to a as V 2 aa generating V 1 2 aa where a a is the projection operator on state aand 4 W is a unitary transformation that preserves the component of any state along the standard state uniform superposition of all possible inputs while changing the sign of its component orthogonal to to W 2 1 where is the projection operator on the state .

Farhi and Gutmann 1998 addressed the concept of quantum computation viewed as a continuous time evolution where they proposed an analog version of Grover s algorithm based on a time independent Hamiltonian applied for a time T. The algorithm required T to be of order N providing the same degree of complexity as Grover s algorithm.

Farhi and Gutmann also considered an alternative class of continuous time quantum algorithms based on a time dependent Hamiltonian that effects an adiabatic evolution of the quantum register where if the Hamiltonian varies sufficiently slowly the system will remain near its instantaneous ground state. In this approach the adiabatic evolution can then be used to search gradually from an initial Hamiltonian whose ground state is known to a final Hamiltonian whose ground state encodes the unknown solution. While the time required for this switching to remain globally adiabatic determines the computation time unfortunately the search result is in a complexity of order N which does not improve on a classical algorithm that simply checks all possible solutions.

Jeremie Roland and Nicolos J. Cerf 2002 2003 showed that the quadratic speed up of Grover s original algorithm can be recovered by continuously adjusting the rate with which the initial Hamiltonian is switched to the final Hamiltonian therein fulfilling the condition of adiabaticity locally i.e. at each time . They further found that the local adiabatic evolution approach improves the scaling law of the complexity of the quantum search algorithm by varying the speed of the adiabatic sweep. Generally the global adiabatic evolution approach is based on a set of N items among which one is marked with the objective being to locate it in minimum time employing n quantum bits qubits to label the items resulting in a Hilbert space of dimension N 2.

Hilbert space basis states are written as iwith I 0 . . . N 1 while the marked state is written m Since is not known in advance an initial superposition of all basis states is selected as the initial system Hamiltonian H I whose ground state is with energy zero. In essence the algorithm consists in preparing the system in the state 0 then applying the Hamiltonian H t during a time T. By imposing a limit on the evolution rate dividing T into infinitesimal time intervals dt and applying the adiabaticity condition locally to each of these intervals the evolution rate varies continuously in time thereby speeding up the computation and solving Grover s problem i.e. the search for a marked item in an unstructured database.

Christof Zalka 2006 showed that for any number of oracle lookups up to approximately 4 N Grover s quantum searching algorithm is reliable when searching for a marked item in an unstructured database including for quantum algorithms that use measurements during the computation.

N. David Mermin 2007 noted that U is the only unitary transformation appearing in Grover s algorithm that acts as anything other than the identity on the output register. Because the output register starts in the state H 1 unentangled with the input register and because U maintains the output register in this particular state the output register remains unentangled with the input register and in the state H 1throughout Grover s algorithm. U centric descriptions of system behavior while retaining a 1 qubit output register maintains the following form as shown in Equation 4 below 1 2 1 Equation 4

Mermin presented an improvement to Grover s algorithm by suppressing all explicit reference to the unaltered output register which is always unentangled with the input register and always in the state H 1 by replacing the n 1 qubit unitary U with the n qubit unitary V that acts on the n qubit input register and defining all other operators that appear in the algorithm only by their action on the input register with the implicit understanding that they act as the identity on the output register.

As can be seen from the discussion above quantum search can provide significant advantages over classical non quantum search methods. Quantum search results are theoretically obtained more rapidly than by using classical search techniques where objects of interest are marked items in unstructured data bases. However the following quantum search limitations exist 1 Quantum search methodologies and techniques have generally not been applied where objects of interest are unmarked items in unstructured or structured data bases 2 Quantum search methodologies and techniques are generally constrained to local searches where objects of interest are marked items in unstructured data bases these methodologies and techniques may not scale well in complex searches through distributed unstructured data items data bases data repositories and systems containing marked or unmarked items 3 Initialization to superposition of present systems is generally obtained within O log N steps a superposition attainment velocity that may not scale within complex object searches through networked data elements data files data bases and data repositories 4 Quantum search results do not generate useable reuseable or updatable quantum search results indices 5 Quantum search methodologies and techniques do not incorporate interaction with classical search computational and network systems 6 Quantum search methodologies and techniques do not incorporate massively scalable quantum and hybrid quantum classical memory 7 The current state of quantum search does not lend itself to multi dimensional search storage and retrieval methodologies intrinsic to complex real plus imaginary numeric and non numeric networked data elements data files data based and data repositories existing in multiple dimensions and 8 Quantum search methodologies and systems do not integrate quantum classical and steganographic cryptosystems.

Application breakthrough implications for improved quantum and integrated quantum classical search and computation are highly significant to continuing advances in a plurality of fields including for example Information search Information security Information processing Information operations Network centric operations Risk assessment optimization management Multi dimensional mathematics Multi dimensional modeling and simulation Multi dimensional real time decision support Multi dimensional epidemiologic pattern prediction Civil outbreak prediction Massively parallel e discovery Disease surveillance outbreak prediction Aerospace Navigation Transportation Logistics Meteorology Design and manufacturing Quantum classical and hybrid quantum classical algorithm design Resource optimization and allocation Energy resource optimization Financial market optimization Mathematics quantum algebra quantum geometry Quantum physics quantum systems simulation Cosmological physics modeling mapping the cosmos Molecular chemistry Medicine Biotechnology Nanotechnology Pico femto atto zepto yoctotechnologies N Yottabyte networked information storage mapped arrays indices and Classically intractable problem resolution.

As can be seen from the discussion above quantum search computation and retrieval can provide significant advantages over classical non quantum methods. Therefore there is a need for improved methods components and systems to allow utilizing the advantages that n dimensional quantum search computation memory storage retrieval and integrated cryptosystems can provide. Further a requirement exists for improved integration of quantum and classical computation search memory and retrieval methods.

It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented and utilized in numerous ways including without limitation as a process an apparatus a system a device and as a method for applications now known and later developed. These and other unique features of the system disclosed herein will become more readily apparent from the following description and the accompanying drawings.

It is therefore an object of the subject technology to provide a structure and method for enabling components and systems for quantum search and more particularly to improved standalone and global network computing centric quantum search components and systems quantum memory components and systems quantum storage components and systems quantum retrieval components and systems classical non quantum search components and systems and integrated quantum classical search components and systems.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may incorporate a plurality of quantum logic gates memory registers components systems and methods that are structured and function at a plurality of diminishing scales for example 10m the micron scale intrinsic to visible light based transistors capable of frequencies in the range 10 Hz 10 and 10m the sub micron 0.1 scale intrinsic to extreme ultraviolet EUV transistors where the wavelength is shorter than that of visible light and is capable of frequencies ranging from 10to 10Hertz 10 Hertz 10 . The 10m scale is the spatial foundation for single and multi billion transistor chips 10meter m nano or molecular scale intrinsic domain of molecular quantum computing the realm of nanophotonics and nanoelectronics 10m ngstr m or atomic scale intrinsic domain of the single atom bit 10m electronic and photonic or pico scale intrinsic domain of spintronics and the single electron transistor. The pico scale is the intrinsic domain wherein an electron can tunnel across an insulator onto a conducting island if states are available to it on both sides creating a periodic modulation called the Coulomb blockage in the charging current due to an integer number of electrons allowed on the island. The pico scale is also the intrinsic scalar candidate to create a plurality of memory cells that each stores a single electron or photon 10m femto scale characteristic length of the Strong Force intrinsic to quantum computing and quantum networking due to the quantum properties of superposition and quantum entanglement the latter where the spins of particles polarized together remain correlated even if the particles are spatially separated 10m atto scale characteristic length of the Weak Force and 10m to 10m scalar range intrinsic to the fermionic and bosonic domains. As stated in Routt U.S. Pat. No. 7 451 292 Methods For Transmitting Data Across Quantum Interfaces and Gates Using Same the range of 10m to 10m scales is the elementary particle basis to electronic computing and electronic networking and is the range of Fermi matter fields the fermionic domain. The scalar range of 10m to 10m is also the force field basis to optical computing and optical networking and is the intrinsic domain of Bose force fields the bosonic domain.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may incorporate a plurality of quantum logic gates components systems and methods that are structured and function at a plurality of increasing scales for example 10m one meter scale intrinsic to data and storage servers providing the building block for local and global scale quantum search storage and retrieval components sub systems and systems 10m to 10m the scalar range intrinsic to data and storage server arrays data centers local area networks LANs 10m metropolitan area networks MANs 10m regional Internet service providers ISPs 10m national backbone network computing infrastructures 10m multinational backbone network computing infrastructures 10m and global network computing infrastructures 10m and 10m to 10m the scalar range intrinsic to global network computing infrastructures incorporating a plurality of low earth orbit LEO medium earth orbit MEO geosynchronous orbit GEO and geostationary satellites a plurality of combinations and permutations of earth planetary and or satellite network computing 10m a plurality of earth planetary lunar satellite network computing 10m a plurality of quantum search storage retrieval network computing functions within and among earth planetary solar inner orbiting planetary network computing functions 10m and a plurality of intra solar system intra and interplanetary network computing functions 10m .

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may enable quantum logic gates in spin field effect SFET magnetic random access memory MRAM components subsystems and systems.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may enable a quantum memory and data storage medium by incorporating a spin dependent magnetic substrate integrated among a plurality of spin neutral and spin independent materials. Spin polarizations of component beam electrons and photons that are preferentially generated and captured by the quantum memory and data storage medium are determined by the combination of electronic magnetic spin state and photonic angular direction.

The subject technology may contain spin decoherence by minimizing the duration of optical pulse and storage times. The subject technology may incorporate optical quantum information processing components subsystems and systems such as a dynamic form of temporally independent electromagnetically induced transparency EIT . The subject technology may incorporate optical classical information processing components subsystems and systems utilizing EIT.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may incorporate and integrate quantum and classical non quantum algorithms logic components sub systems and systems. In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may further incorporate non locally synchronized quantum computing quantum search quantum memory quantum storage and quantum retrieval indices that preferentially reference a plurality of data within a comparatively infinitesimal memory volume relative to the referenced data. The subject technology may enable classically intractable n degree scalable computing and search results in polynomial time.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may enable a plurality of parallel dimensional computation and search and pursue a plurality of presented computational and search pathways at once in real time. 

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may enable n degree scalability in local and non local quantum computation and search results storage.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may enable n degree scalability in local and non local integrated quantum classical computation and search results storage. The subject technology may enable quantum logic. The subject technology may enable integrated quantum classical logic.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may enable integrated quantum classical cryptosystems incorporating quantum classical and steganographic components and systems.

In a preferred embodiment quantum computing and search functions in the subject technology may progress through pertubations of Schr dinger s equation in which computational and search basis states are continuous and uniformly distributed in space the actual state of a given particle is expressed as a state vector specified in the form of a wavefunction x x denotes the amplitude in the state xx is a continuous variable rather than a set of discrete states 0 1 evolution of the wavefunction x is described by potential functions operating through a continuum and therefore there exists an infinite number of basis states.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may incorporate quantum computation search storage and retrieval mechanics whereby current system states incorporate probabilistic memory throughout a plurality of system states based upon Markov processes defined with discrete and continuous states and time.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may incorporate local and non local quantum computation and quantum search platforms and logic.

In a preferred embodiment the subject technology may incorporate quantum memory and data storage by n dimensional generation and association of quantum search index results and identifiers with a specific set of fermionic electronic and bosonic photonic quantum numbers each associated with individually addressable quantum memory cells and extensible throughout a plurality of time and distance independent regimes.

The subject technology overcomes many of the prior art problems associated with implementing quantum search and integrated quantum classical search. The advantages and other features of the components disclosed herein will become more readily apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art form. The following detailed description of certain preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the drawings set forth representative embodiments of the subject technology wherein like reference numerals identify similar structural elements.

For clarity throughout the following description arrows are shown to indicate the direction and ellipses to indicate additional components such shorthand is for clarity in reference to the figures and is not meant in a limiting sense.

Referring further to the plurality of users preferentially issue quantum search QSearch query requests into a quantum search environment across a quantum application programming interface QAPI where the QAPI formats and presents a plurality of Qsearch query requests to a quantum search query module QS query module .

Qsearch query requests are preferentially presented from a QS Query module into a quantum oracle index component within an Indexes environment where the quantum oracle index invokes a quantum search oracle. The quantum search oracle preferentially incorporates zero point quantum computation search storage and retrieval logic within a plurality of superposed quantum gaps or computational singularities stationed between and among any 2 to n instances of a plurality of observable system states any n of which connect logically and or physically as disclosed in terms of quantum gap logic in U.S. Pat. No. 7 451 292 entitled Methods For Transmitting Data Across Quantum Interfaces and Gates Using Same issued to Routt on Nov. 11 2008.

Invocation of quantum gap logic for quantum search oracle operation in the subject technology preferentially enables a plurality of n qubit quantum search oracles to operate within a plurality of self referral computational superpositional states throughout the execution of a plurality of quantum search algorithms therein effectively stationing quantum search oracle logic within a state continuous dynamic computationally aware fountainhead of past present and future instructions and outcomes. The quantum search oracle computationally stationed within quantum gap logic effectively remains unchanged throughout the sequence initialized by processing Qsearch requests through to generation of a quantum search results list QSRL within the quantum search system .

The quantum search oracle in the subject technology preferentially marks a plurality of solutions to a plurality of QSearch queries by phase shifting search request solutions utilizing zero point self referral computations in quantum gap logic that approaches infinite root N M search iterations at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities where the search problem contains N possible items with M possible solutions. A quantum oracle index in the subject technology is further preferentially generated upon completion of the search solution mark process.

Still referring to the quantum oracle index preferentially invokes a mapping index process which in turn Generates a quantum search index incorporating rotation operator components and spin matrices components Generates an addressable absolute memory index AAMI incorporating rotation matrices quantum number world sheet a plurality of root systems and a plurality of root memory cell components and Generates an encryption index incorporating quantum encryption components classical encryption components and steganographic encryption components .

Referring further to the mapping index preferentially generates a content mapping module which maps a QSRL across the QAPI to a plurality of users .

Referring further to a plurality of users preferentially issue classical query CQuery requests into a classical search environment across a classical application programming interface CAPI . Assuming that the CQuery requests result in classical results CResults and that no interaction with the quantum search environment is required in order to obtain CResults CQuery requests yield Cresults across the CAPI as a function of successful search query processing interactions with a classical crawler module classical page repository classical indexes and modules and classical query and ranking modules within a world wide web WWW framework .

Referring further to CQuery requests may invoke the quantum search environment by passing requests from classical query and ranking modules across the quantum classical application programming interface QCAPI to a QS query module along communication path . Positive quantum search results initiated by CQuery requests are preferentially returned to a plurality of users in the form of a QSRL readable by users operating within classical computing and networked environments.

Referring further to the quantum search environment is preferentially intrinsic to and interacts with the WWW framework deep web and non web quantum computing and quantum networking environments . The classical search environment is preferentially intrinsic to and interacts with WWW classical computing and networking environments .

Referring further to and as summarized above the quantum search indexes system environment preferentially incorporates an encryption index generated by quantum encryption classical encryption and steganographic encryption components where the integrated cryptosystem performs a plurality of operations including for example 1 Encryption of search requests and 2 Identification and tagging of search results that contain encrypted components fields and content.

Referring still to the classical encryption component of the encryption index preferentially incorporates standards based interfaces and is compatible with existing classical non quantum encryption and decryption standards and cryptosystems including for example Advanced Encryption Standard AES Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 197 FIPS PUB 197 a symmetric block cipher substitution permutation network capable of using cryptographic keys to encrypt and decrypt data in blocks of 128 bits using 10 12 or 14 rounds depending upon key size Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES TDES 3DES a block cipher formed by using DES three times employing one two or three keys Rivest Shamir and Adleman RSA an algorithm for public key cryptography and Secure Hash Algorithm SHA a set of cryptographic hash functions.

Classical non quantum public key cryptosystems and associated algorithms and keys generally derive their provably secure characteristics as a function of the difficulty in factoring large numbers that are the products of two large primes where a prime number is an integer greater than one if its only divisors are one and itself. The initial five prime numbers are 2 3 5 7 11 for example.

Breaking large prime algorithms within classical non quantum cryptosystems does not require a brute force attack on every possible key value. Successful unauthorized penetration does generally however rely upon brute force attempts to factor a large number or of taking discrete logarithms in a very large finite field. Throughout the 1970s 1980s and 1990s general understanding and experience dictated that if the number to factor were too small system security was minimal while sufficiently large numbers to factor were considered sufficient to ensure effectively impenetrable security. During 1977 for example Ron Rivest stated that factoring a 125 digit number would require 40 quadrillion 40 10 years given then current compute power.

During 1994 however a 129 digit number was successfully factored into primes. Bruce Schneier writing in during 1996 projected the number of million instruction per second MIPS years that is number of years needed for a 1 MIPS computer required to factor numbers of varying sizes given then current implementations of the general number sieve and special number sieve. The number field sieve is perhaps the best known factoring algorithm requiring a number of steps on the order of O e to factor a number N creating an exponential increase in the effort to find prime factors given a linear increase in key length. Schneier s 1996 summarized projections are summarized in Table 1 below 

The Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search GIMPS was formed in January 1996 to discover increasingly large world record size Mersenne primes. Mersenne Primes are primes of the form 2 1 and are proven to be prime based on the factorizations of either N 1 or N 1 where the factorization of N 1 is as trivial as possible a power of two. A Mersenne prime is a positive integer that is one less than a power of two that is M 2 1. The initial four Mersenne Primes are 3 7 31 and 127 for example.

The 41known Mersenne Prime 2 1 a 7 235 733 digit prime was calculated on May 15 2004 a calculation performed on a 2.4 GHz Pentium 4 computer. A 53 digit factor for M971 the smallest Mersenne number for which no factors were known was calculated on Sep. 13 2004.

The 42known Mersenne Prime 2 1 a 7 816 230 digit prime was calculated Feb. 26 2005 a calculation requiring approximately 50 days on a 2.4 GHz Pentium 4 processor.

The 43known Mersenne Prime 2 1 a 9 152 052 digit prime known as M30402457 was calculated on Dec. 15 2005 a calculation requiring over 700 coordinated PCs comprising a portion of PrimeNet 70 000 networked computers. PrimeNet collectively organizes parallel number crunching to create a virtual supercomputer running 24 7 at 18 teraflops 18 10vector floating point operations per second . M30402457 was initially independently verified in five days using 16 Itanium2 1.5 GHz CPUs and subsequently independently verified over a 14 day period on 14 CPUs of a Compaq Alpha GS160 1.2 GHz CPU server.

The 44known Mersenne Prime 2 1 a 9 808 358 digit prime was calculated on Sep. 4 2006 using idle time on 700 PrimeNet lab PCs. The 44known Mersenne Prime had been previously projected to require 4 000 years to calculate using a single PC. The last few Mersenne Primes have been calulated using a special form of Fast Fourier Transform FFT called DWT. The 45known Mersenne Prime 2 1 an 11 185 272 digit prime was calculated on Sep. 6 2008 The 46known Mersenne Prime 2 1 a 12 978 189 digit prime was calculated on Aug. 23 2008.

Significantly larger primes continue to be calculated on increasingly portable and generally available computers suggesting calculations of multi magnitude digit enlargement of prime numbers performed on increasingly ubiquitous computing platforms within rapidly diminishing and therefore increasingly tractable time intervals. Compute intensive evolution of processing platforms and their increasingly widespread availability further demonstrate trends to accelerating improvements in capabilities to compromise encryption keys within classical non quantum private cryptosystems as well as to successfully factor increasingly large primes from ever larger integers within the keys of classical non quantum public cryptosystems using classical non quantum computing systems.

Anticipated continuing evolution of quantum computing will likely usher in an era where even brute force hacking of primes their factors and all possible encryption keys private or public will be increasingly achievable within rapidly diminishing non exponential and therefore tractable time intervals due primarily to the intrinsic capability of quantum computingtechnologies and methodologies to pursue a plurality of computational trajectories simultaneously.

Referring further to the quantum encryption component of the encryption index preferentially addresses major disadvantages associated with classical non quantum private key cryptosystems including for example 1 Secure distribution of key bits the Vernam cipher for example remains secure only as long as the number of key bits is at least as large as the size of the message being encoded 2 Key bits cannot be reused quickly rendering such schemes impractical 3 Key bits must be delivered in advance of use 4 Key bits once delivered must be protected with great care 5 Key bits must be destroyed after one time use and 6 Classical non quantum information can be readily copied without disturbing the originals therein compromising the security of the overall protocol and system environment. Nevertheless private key cryptosystems remain in widespread use due to reasonable probabilities of generating and maintaining provable security coupled with delivery of key materials by classical non quantum private secured communication links and or through trusted couriers.

The quantum encryption component of preferentially employs a method wherein qubits are established via an oscillating polarization function generated as a function of the time varying electric field of a light wave where the relationship between the polarization and applied electric field is linear with the resulting time varying polarization sinusoidal at frequency through . In this way sinusoidally varying fields are generated for any medium in which induced polarization is a nonlinear function of any electric field inducing polarizations that incorporate frequency components at 1 to n higher harmonics of the original first order or linear frequency generating the basis for 1 to n qubit encryption where frequencies of second to nth order harmonic waves expressing as qubits are calculated using perturbations of Maxwell s equations for static and time varying electric and magnetic fields and where computational reversibility may be calculated through an Inverse Fourier Transform on any classical non quantum function x .

The quantum encryption component of further preferentially enables computational reversibility that can be calculated through a Quantum Fourier Transform QFT as the discrete Fourier transform with a specified decomposition into a product of simpler unitary matrices.

The quantum encryption component of further preferentially enables a method wherein the relationship between induced polarization P and the electric field E is not linear qubits are established as a result of the generated polarization not being the same for a given applied field of magnitude E in the same fashion as for an applied field of magnitude E. In either case the polarization response to any given applied sinusoidal field is not purely sinusoidal generating a distortion reflecting the presence of polarization components at frequencies and therefore providing the basis state for a strong component at the second harmonic frequency 2 and at nth harmonic frequencies 2 .

The quantum encryption component of further preferentially enables sending receiving parties to rotate Einstein Podolsky Rosen EPR quantum key generating pairs 00 11 2 by 1 to n spin polarized phase angles throughout the integer and or sub integer range 0 360.

Referring further to the steganographic component of the encryption index preferentially enables quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto to be steganographically encoded and referenced within classical non quantum fields protected by n bit keys and references thereto.

Referring further to the steganographic component of the encryption index preferentially incorporates a method for stegonographically embedding 1 to n quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto within 1 to n classical non quantum fields and references thereto comprising the following steps 1 Initializing the sequence by encoded reference to quantum computational results from a plurality of methods resulting in generation of non orthogonal qubits 2 Generating a non orthogonal qubit result reference field comprising 1 to n classical bits 3 Generating a pseudo random key sequence using a classical non quantum exclusive OR XOR operation 4 Encrypting the XOR pseudo random result employing a commutative one way accumulator 5 Pseudo randomly interspersing check bits among classical data bits 6 Embedding reference classical check bits to calculated non orthogonal qubits and references thereto and 7 Embedding the classical data referenced by classical check bits into variable length message data and overhead fields.

The steganographic component of the encryption index preferentially incorporates a reversible computational method for retrieving 1 to n embedded quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto from 1 to n classically encrypted fields and references thereto. The steganographic component of the encryption index preferentially incorporates a method wherein classical non quantum data fields protected by n bit keys and references thereto are steganographically encoded and referenced within quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto.

The steganographic component of the encryption index preferentially incorporates a method for steganographically embedding 1 to n classical non quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto within 1 to n quantum cryptographic algorithms and keys and references thereto comprising the following steps 1 Initializing the sequence by encoded reference to classical non quantum encryption algorithms and keys 2 Generating a random quantum key sequence resulting in non orthogonal qubits 3 Calculating a spin polarized phase angle pointer to 1 to n classical non quantum cryptographic algorithms and keys 4 Calculating the associated inner product between the vectors and 5 Calculating the associated tensor product of and 6 Embedding reference quantum check qubits to calculated classical non quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto and 7 Embedding the quantum computational result into the transmitted quantum message.

Referring further to the steganographic component of the encryption index preferentially incorporates a reversible computational method for retrieving 1 to n embedded classical non quantum cryptographic algorithms keys and references thereto from 1 to n quantum encrypted fields and references thereto.

Referring to a somewhat schematic flow diagram A B of the method of quantum search quantum computation quantum memory and quantum retrieval employed by the system is shown. incorporates inputs from and as denoted on the figures. Similarly incorporates input from as denoted on the figure.

Referring to and to a quantum search world sheet is preferentially populated based on an n dimensional search initialized by inputs or steps as illustrated in where the quantum search world sheet is the product of a quantum global scale search throughout WWW deep web and non web indexed and non indexed content and object environments utilizing a plurality of exceptional root systems i.e. G F E E E consisting of all vectors roots located resolved and mapped at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities and generates a global search image map. includes a list of inputs or steps as follows step rotates spin polarized particles photons bosons electrons fermions in 3 2 to n n radian unmarked increments step initializes quantum search logic step initializes n qubit oracles step initializes nth root search logic approaching infinite root n A at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities step initializes Cartan sub algebra generators step generates a Strong Groot system 12 root SU 3 step rotates and scales in n dimensions step matches on parallel world lines step collapses the Groot system to a lower dimensional embedded space step generates Graviweak Fvertices and associated quantum number step generates Gravitation and Electroweak Dvertices and associated quantum number step calculates Epolytope vertices F G and step calculates an Equantum number w to .

Further referring to step combines a plurality of Eroots in 8 dimensions. At step an Eroot system is collapsed along matched parallel world lines and lattices to lower dimensional embedded space. At step calculation of a plurality of Eroot systems is performed along matched parallel world lines. At step calculation of a plurality of collapsed n dimensional Eroot system projections is performed utilizing quantum gap logic as in Claim 1 of Routt U.S. Pat. No. 7 451 292 Methods For Transmitting Data Across Quantum Interfaces and Gates Using Same . At step mapping to a plurality of root memory cells is performed as in Claims 2 4 5 29 32 of Routt U.S. Pat. No. 7 451 292 Methods For Transmitting Data Across Quantum Interfaces and Gates Using Same to .

Referring to at step a quantum search world sheet database is preferentially populated from . System wavefunction x is preferentially initialized at step to uniform superposition utilizing an nth root algorithm approaching infinite root n A at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocity with equal amplitudes in all basis states and where the sums of entries in initialization matrix columns are unity. Quantum computing and search functions and operations in the subject technology are preferentially initialized to the system superposition 0 00 . . . 0 . . . 0 1 11 . . . 1 . . . 1 n 2 Equation 5 where 1 The superposition is generated within an nth root of A number of steps 2 Infinite root is approached at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities 3 A is any complex number of the form a bi 4 a and b are real numbers and 5 i is the imaginary unit with the property i 1.

At step quantum search logic is initialized by setting x t 0. Quantum logic initialization for a named search sets the wavefunction time to zero where t 0 x is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian H a self adjoint operator acting on the state space to initialize computational energy as a physically observable real number based quantity N which is associated with a named search set S. At step a plurality of n qubit oracles is initialized.

Referring further to and to at step an addressable absolute memory index AAMI is preferentially generated from . includes a list of steps. Step initializes a plurality of root memory cell map index matrices. Step calculates Equantum number w from . Step generates principal quantum number n . Step generates azimuthal quantum number l . Step generates magnetic quantum number m . Step calculates spin quantum number s . Step calculates n dimensional rotational matrices.

Referring further to at step the calculated AAMI result is preferentially mapped to a plurality of memory cells where 1 to n addressable absolute memory indices can reside at a plurality of local and networked quantum and hybrid quantum classical processing locations platforms and environments and a plurality of mapped memory cells is input to FIG A.

Referring further to and to following AAMI initialization in n dimensional rotation operators are preferentially initialized by quaternions at step of . The subject technology preferentially comprises the use of a plurality of quaternions to enable multi dimensional computation search storage and retrieval where quaternions are utilized as a non commutative extension of complex numbers and form a 4 dimensional normed division algebra over the real numbers where the set H of a plurality of quaternions is a vector space over the real numbers on the unit 4 dimensional hypersphere and where the hypersphere is any n dimensional sphere for n 3. The subject technology further preferentially comprises quaternion representations of quantum search storage and retrieval results by use of a plurality of 2 2 complex matrices.

The subject technology further preferentially comprises quaternion representations of quantum search storage and retrieval results by use of a plurality of 4 4 real matrices where for example the quaternion a bi cj dk can be represented as 

The subject technology further preferentially comprises a plurality of 3 to n dimensional quaternion based rotation operators and operations where computational results can be converted back as needed to a plurality of orthogonal matrices and where for example the orthogonal matrix corresponding to a rotation by the unit quaternion z a bi cj dk with z 1 is given by 

The subject technology further preferentially comprises a plurality of mapping indices among a plurality of real complex and quaternion based computations and representations where spin polarizations of component beam electrons and photons are preferentially associated with computational mapped index results.

The subject technology further preferentially incorporates a canonical form for the commutation relations of a Lie algebra where resulting equations are invariant under the nonsingular transformation U and where the canonical form is a polynomial in of order with real coefficients r depending on the choice of Lie algebra element.

Referring further to at step a plurality of quantum search requests and parameters is preferentially generated and presented across a quantum application programming interface see QAPI of .

At step the receive process searches the AAMI engine preferentially utilizing nth root search logic approaching infinite root n A at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities and compares at step to determine if the requested objects are located a plurality of search request and parameters to a plurality of items mapped to a plurality of memory cells to determine whether or not the presented quantum search request s and parameter s invoke 1 to n marked item s .

Referring further to at step if 1 to n items in the AAMI search engine match the presented named object search request Yes a quantum search results list QSRL is generated and returned across QAPI refer to QAPI . If 1 to n items in the AAMI search engine do not match the presented named object search request No the search query request is presented to .

Referring to at decision step a marked item search compare is preferentially performed. If the search request is determined to be a request for a plurality of marked items Yes the flowchart B passes control to step where the request receiving process rotates spin polarized particles photons bosons electrons fermions in 2 n radian marked increments.

If the search request is determined to be a request for a plurality of unmarked items No at step the flowchart B passed control to step where the request receiving process preferentially rotates spin polarized particles photons bosons electrons fermions in 3 2 n 2 radian unmarked increments. Marked rotations 2 to n radians and unmarked rotations 3 2 to n n radians are associated with a plurality of quantum search indices utilizing an nth root algorithm where a plurality of radicands is enabled approaching infinite root at exponentially or hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities.

In either case the flowchart B of passes control to step where spin polarized particle results from marked and unmarked rotations preferentially generate a plurality of spin matrices. At step n vector extensions are applied to a plurality of spin matrices. At step a plurality of n qubit oracles are initialized. At step local and networked quantum search logic is initialized. At step marked and unmarked rotation spin matrices are mapped to root memory cells. At step a quantum search index QSI is generated refer also to quantum search index . At step AAMI is updated with QSI.

QSI in the subject technology is preferentially generated utilizing an nth root algorithm where a plurality of radicands is enabled approaching infinite root n A at hyper exponentially convergent calculation velocities where the radicand is any complex number of the form a bi where a and b are real numbers where i is the imaginary unit with the property i 1 and where the radical and root are encoded by the infinite series 

Referring further to at step a quantum search results list QSRL is calculated as AAMI mapped QSI refer also to QSRL and at step mapped to a plurality of root memory cells refer also to root memory cells . At step the generated QSRL is returned refer also to QSRL QAPI and users . Subsequent named search sets S S are preferentially initialized on Eroots and cells that are directly mapped to a plurality of root memory cells.

Photonic and electronic spin polarizations in the subject technology are preferentially associated with and encoded to a plurality of Lie groups where a Lie group is a differentiable manifold with the property that group operations are compatible with a continuous symmetry smooth structure i.e. continuous symmetries of differential equations. The quantum search computation memory and storage system of the subject technology further preferentially comprises a means to associate a plurality of spin states with local or linearized versions of a global quantum computational object with its infinitesimal group based on Lie algebra.

The quantum search system based on the subject technology preferentially comprises a plurality of root systems associated with a plurality of N dimensional Lie algebras each considered as a vector space containing an R dimensional subspace a Cartan algebra spanned by a maximal set of R interconnecting generators T where R is the rank of a given Lie algebra and where each of the N R non zero eigenvalues imaginary for real compact groups is linearly dependent on the coefficients of C Cartan subalgebra and corresponds to a point a root in the space dual to the Cartan subalgebra.

The subject technology further preferentially comprises a plurality of root vectors and a plurality of Cartan subalgebra generators that span the Lie algebra and in so doing can function as generators the Cartan Weyl basis of the Lie algebra where the Lie bracket between root vectors corresponds to vector addition between their roots and to interactions among a plurality of quantum memory address locations.

The subject technology preferentially comprises a quantum search computation memory and storage address mapping scheme based on a plurality of exceptional root systems including the Eroot system. The Eroot system initially described as a polytope by Thorold Gosset in 1900 is the largest simple exceptional Lie group and consists of 240 vectors of complex dimension Lie algebra where roots are nonzero vectors in a Euclidean space on which exists a positive definite metric. Evectors are the vertices corners of the Gosset polytope 4 and 8 dimensional object.

Eis a complex Lie algebra where the coordinates are complex numbers. The Eroot system can be rotated in eight dimensions and contains the Fand Groot systems which are orthogonal in E and where rotations between the two have been shown for example to identify interactions between elementary particles A. Garrett Lisi An Exceptionally Simple Theory of Everything arXiv 0711.0770v1 6 Nov. 2007 .

The Edesignation derives from Wilhelm Killing and Elie Cartan s classification of the complex simple Lie algebras made between 1888 and 1890 comprising four infinite families labeled A B C D and five exceptional cases labeled E E E F and G. The Ealgebra is the largest and most complex of these exceptional cases and relates to a family of closely related structures. Eis also the name of the corresponding root system root lattice and Weyl Coxeter group as welt as some finite simple Chevalley groups.

The subject technology further preferentially comprises the Eroot system as a configuration of vectors in a Euclidean space where 1 The only scalar multiples of a root that belong to are itself and 2 For every root a the set is closed under reflection through the hyperplane perpendicular to that is for any two roots and the set contains the reflection of 

The subject technology further preferentially comprises a plurality of operations by elements of the Lie algebra and Cartan subalgebra on a plurality of vectors generated and located within a plurality of Lie group representation spaces where the eigenvectors function as weight vectors of the Cartan subalgebra with eigenvalues that correspond to the generalized roots weights that describe the representation.

The subject technology further preferentially comprises the use of a plurality of real numbers and complex numbers to enable multi dimensional quantum search computation storage and retrieval.

Referring to are somewhat schematic representations of autonomous and nonautonomous differential equation slope fields in accordance with the subject technology. Photonic and electronic spin polarizations in the subject technology are preferentially associated with and encoded to autonomous and non autonomous differential equation slope fields where convergence regions generate a plurality of addressable and reusable quantum search index identifiers refer also to quantum search index . The quantum search memory storage and retrieval system based on the present technology further preferentially incorporates a means to generate autonomous differential equations yielding horizontal shift invariant slope fields as represented shown in .

Referring further to the quantum search memory storage and retrieval system based on the subject technology preferentially incorporates a means to generate nonautonomous differential equations yielding horizontal and vertical shift variant slope fields and associates a plurality of nonautonomous differential equation based slope fields to a plurality of spin polarized photonic and electronic states.

The quantum memory and quantum data storage system based on the subject technology further preferentially incorporates a means to represent a plurality of spin polarized photonic and electronic states to a plurality of autonomous and nonautonomous differential equation based slope fields.

Referring to somewhat schematic representations of autonomous and nonautonomous differential equation slope field solution curves are shown in accordance with the subject technology. The quantum memory and data storage system based on the subject technology preferentially incorporates a means to generate solution curves to autonomous and non autonomous differential equation based representations of spin polarized photonic and electronic states shown by example in representations and respectively where convergence regions generate addressable and reusable quantum search index identifiers refer also to quantum search index .

All patents published patent applications and other references disclosed herein are hereby expressly incorporated in their entireties by reference.

While the invention has been described with respect to preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that various changes and or modifications can be made to the invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

