---

title: Method for coating a cement fiberboard article
abstract: The bottom of a cement fiberboard article is coated by conveying the article across a gap between a first conveyor and second conveyer and applying a liquid radiation-curable coating system to at least the bottom surface of the article while the article passes over the gap. The coating system is radiation-cured to at least a reduced tack state before the coated surface contacts the second conveyor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08057864&OS=08057864&RS=08057864
owner: Valspar Sourcing, Inc.
number: 08057864
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080731
---
This application is a continuation is a National Stage filing of International Application No. PCT US2007 061327 filed on Jan. 30 2007 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 764 131 filed Jan. 31 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Cement composite articles are becoming more and more common for use in building materials. Many of these articles are prepared from inexpensive materials such as cement wood cellulose fibers natural glass fibers and polymers. These articles usually are prepared in the form of cement fiberboard substrates such as siding panels and boards. The substrate or articles can be made using methods such as extrusion or using a Hatschek machine.

In northern climates damage from repeated freezing and thawing of water absorbed into the cement fiberboard substrate represents a significant problem. Continued exposure to moisture freeze thaw cycles UV exposure and atmospheric carbon dioxide can cause physical and chemical changes in articles made from cement fiberboard compositions over time. Coating systems or coating compositions can prevent exposure to the elements such as UV light carbon dioxide and water or can help reduce the damage that can occur due to exposure to these elements. Several such systems are available for protecting cement fiberboard articles. However there is a need for coating systems and coating compositions that provide a superior seal have the ability to cure rapidly or can provide improved results when an article coated with the composition is submitted to wet adhesion testing and multiple freeze thaw cycles.

The present invention provides a method for coating a cement fiberboard article. The method includes the steps of i providing a conveying system having a first conveyor a second conveyer and a gap between them ii conveying a cement fiberboard article across the gap iii applying a liquid radiation curable coating system to at least the bottom surface of the article while the article passes over the gap and iv at least partially curing the coating system to a reduced tack state with radiation before the coated surface contacts the second conveyor. The coating system may be applied in one or more layers.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places throughout the application guidance is provided through lists of examples which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawing and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Like reference symbols in the various figures of the drawing indicate like elements. The elements in the drawing are not to scale.

The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. .

The term comprises and variations thereof does not have a limiting meaning where such term appears in the description or claims. Thus for example a composition comprising a wax compound means that the composition includes one or more wax compounds.

The terms acrylate esters and methacrylate esters refer to esters of acrylic acid and esters of methacrylic acid respectively. They may be referred to as meth acrylates or meth acrylate esters.

The term olefinic compound refers to any monomer oligomer or polymer containing reactive ethylenic unsaturation such as vinyls meth acrylates vinyl ethers allyl ethers vinyl esters unsaturated oils including mono di and triglycerides unsaturated fatty acids and the like. The term olefinic group refers to the reactive ethylenic unsaturated functional group in an olefinic compound.

The term reactive sites or reactive groups refers to a group that can react to form a covalent bond linking or otherwise chemically joining two or more molecules.

The term cured to a reduced tack state means that the coating system has been cured to a state such that it will remain on the article and not be likely to adhere to the components e.g. rollers etc. of the second conveyor.

The present invention provides a method for coating an article such as a cement fiberboard siding product or other cement composite article with a radiation curable coating system. The method includes the steps of i providing a conveying system having a first conveyor a second conveyer and a gap between them ii conveying a cement fiberboard article across the gap iii applying a liquid radiation curable coating system to at least the bottom surface of the article while the article passes over the gap and iv at least partially curing the coating system to a reduced tack state with radiation before the coated surface contacts the second conveyor viz. before the coated surface contacts a downstream portion of the conveying system . The disclosed coating systems can be cured to a reduced tack state before the coated article contacts the second conveyor. The disclosed articles may be coated on one or more surfaces with the disclosed radiation curable coating system. A coating system suitable for practicing the invention preferably includes one or more olefinic compounds and optionally includes one or more polyvinyl chloride PVC dispersion resins. In another embodiment the coating system is substantially free of volatile solvents or carriers.

Cement fiberboard articles are large heavy and during manufacture are usually transported on a conveying system e.g. belts rollers air tables and the like. The bottom back of the article is a major surface which typically stays in contact with the conveying system. The disclosed method allows the bottom surface of a cement fiberboard article to be coated during transport e.g. at the site where the cement fiberboard article is made.

Referring to an apparatus for coating the bottom of cement fiberboard articles is shown in schematic side view. Cement fiberboard articles such as siding boards and are conveyed into apparatus on first conveyor which in the embodiment shown in includes a belt and drive wheels such as drive wheel . Boards and are conveyed out of apparatus on second conveyor which in the embodiment shown in includes a belt and drive wheels such as drive wheel . If desired other types of conveyors which will be familiar to those skilled in the art may be employed including roller conveyors having no belts and air beds. While passing through apparatus boards and are conveyed across a gap between first conveyor and second conveyor . Roll coater located between first conveyor and second conveyor is supplied with a liquid radiation curable coating system contained in reservoir . The supply of coating system in reservoir may be replenished through supply line . Roll coater applies a thin film of coating system to the bottom surface of board while board passes over gap forming an uncured thin film on surface downstream from roll coater . Roll coater also helps support board while it passes over gap . Radiation curing unit converts film to an at least partially cured coating before the coated surface of board contacts belt on second conveyor cures . Coating lies adjacent to and partially penetrates surface and desirably is applied to board at the location where board is manufactured. Coating may help to protect board against one or more of exposure to moisture freeze thaw cycles or atmospheric carbon dioxide. Coating also may provide a firmly adhered base layer upon which one or more firmly adhered layers of a topcoat not shown in may be formed.

The disclosed cement fiberboard articles can be coated on one or more surfaces with the disclosed radiation curable coating systems and coating compositions. The coating system can be applied as one or more layers. Suitable coating systems comprise one or more olefinic compounds e.g. monomers oligomers or polymers and optionally one or more PVC dispersion resins. In one exemplary embodiment the coating system includes at least one olefinic compound and may be applied to the substrate and cured using radiation. In another exemplary embodiment the coating system includes a first coating composition that includes at least one olefinic compound and a second coating composition that includes at least one PVC dispersion resin. The two coating compositions may be applied to the substrate sequentially or concurrently and sequentially or simultaneously cured using radiation. In another exemplary embodiment the coating system includes at least one olefinic compound and at least one PVC dispersion resin and may be applied to the substrate and cured using radiation. Further details regarding the latter two embodiments are contained in applicants copending PCT Application Serial No. PCT US2007 002587 filed Jan. 30 2007 and entitled COATING COMPOSITION FOR CEMENT COMPOSITE ARTICLES.

Curing preferably is initiated essentially immediately after application of the composition s to the article. Curing is carried sufficiently to convert the coating to at least a reduced tack state and desirably to a more completely cured state e.g. an essentially fully cured state before the coated surface of the article contacts the second conveyor. Rapid curing may be facilitated by using a coating system containing little or no volatile solvents e.g. a 100 solids composition.

The olefinic compound in the disclosed coating systems appears to function as a reactive penetrant. This may be better appreciated by observing the coating system after it is applied to the substrate but before radiation curing is performed. The olefinic compound appears to improve wetting or penetration and may help draw other components in the coating system into pores in the substrate. The olefinic compound also appears to help the cured coating adhere to the substrate following cure. The PVC dispersion resin appears to limit wetting or penetration and may help prevent other components in the coating system from penetrating so deeply into pores in the substrate that they can not be sufficiently radiation cured. The PVC dispersion resin also appears to help subsequently applied coatings e.g. a topcoat adhere to the coated substrate.

A variety of cement fiberboard substrates may be coated using the disclosed method. The disclosed substrates typically include cement and a filler. Exemplary fillers include wood fiberglass polymers or mixtures thereof. The substrates can be made using methods such as extrusion the Hatschek method or other methods known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0208285 A1 corresponds to International Patent Application No. WO 2005 071179 A1 Australian Patent Application No. 2005100347 International Patent Application No. WO 01 68547 A1 International Patent Application No. WO 98 45222 A1 U.S. Patent Application No. 2006 0288909 A1 and Australian Patent Application No. 198060655 A1. Non limiting examples of such substrates include siding products boards and the like for uses including fencing roofing flooring wall boards shower boards lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shaped edge shingle replicas and stone or stucco replicas. One or both major surfaces of the substrate may be profiled or embossed to look like a grained or roughsawn wood or other building product or scalloped or cut to resemble shingles. The uncoated substrate surface typically contains a plurality of pores with micron or submicron scale cross sectional dimensions.

A variety of suitable fiber cement substrates are commercially available. For example several preferred fiber cement siding products are available from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo Calif. including those sold as HARDEHOME siding HARDIPANEL vertical siding HARDIPLANK lap siding HARDIESOFFIT panels HARDITRIM planks and HARDISHINGLE siding. These products are available with an extended warranty and are said to resist moisture damage to require only low maintenance to not crack rot or delaminate to resist damage from extended exposure to humidity rain snow salt air and termites to be non combustible and to offer the warmth of wood and the durability of fiber cement. Other suitable fiber cement siding substrates include AQUAPANEL cement board products from Knauf USG Systems GmbH Co. KG of Iserlohn Germany CEMPLANK CEMPANEL and CEMTRIM cement board products from Cemplank of Mission Viejo Calif. WEATHERBOARDS cement board products from CertainTeed Corporation of Valley Forge Pa. MAXITILE MAXISHAKE AND MAXISLATE cement board products from MaxiTile Inc. of Carson Calif. BRESTONE CINDERSTONE LEDGESTONE NEWPORT BRICK SERRA PREMIUM and VINTAGE BRICK cement board products from Nichiha U.S.A. Inc. of Norcross Ga. EVERNICE cement board products from Zhangjiagang Evernice Building Materials Co. Ltd. of China and E BOARD cement board products from Everest Industries Ltd. of India.

A variety of olefinic compounds may be used in the disclosed coating systems. The olefinic compounds are distinct from the PVC dispersion resins and are carbon containing compounds having at least one site of unsaturation which can react optionally in the presence of an initiator to provide polymeric or crosslinked products. Non limiting examples of olefinic compounds include monomers such as meth acrylates vinyls vinyl ethers allyl ethers vinyl esters unsaturated oils including mono di and tri glycerides unsaturated fatty acids and the like or mixtures thereof. The olefinic compounds also include oligomers or polymers having at least one site of unsaturation which can react optionally in the presence of an initiator to provide polymeric or crosslinked products.

Exemplary olefinic monomers include meth acrylate esters of unsubstituted or substituted C Calcohols such as tripropylene glycol isobornyl alcohol isodecyl alcohol phenoxyethyl alcohol trishydroxyethyl isocyanurate trimethylolpropane ethoxylate TMPTA ditrimethylolpropane ethoxylate diTMPTA hexanediol ethoxylated neopentyl glycol propoxylated neopentyl glycol ethoxylated phenol polyethylene glycol bisphenol A ethoxylate trimethylolpropane propoxylated glycerol pentaerythritol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol carboxyethyl alcohol or combination thereof. For example the olefinic monomer may be isobornyl meth acrylate isodecyl meth acrylate phenoxyethyl meth acrylate trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate alkoxylated cyclohexane dimethanol di meth acrylate trimethylolpropane ethoxylate tri meth acrylate dipropylene glycol di meth acrylate tripropylene glycol di meth acrylate hexanediol di meth acrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl meth acrylate pentaerythritol tri meth acrylate pentaerythritol tetra meth acrylate di trimethyolpropane tetra meth acrylate propoxylated glycerol tri meth acrylate beta carboxyethyl meth acrylate bisphenol A ethoxylate di meth acrylate ethoxylated neopentyl glycol di meth acrylate propoxylated neopentyl glycol di meth acrylate di trimethyolpropane tetra meth acrylate or combination thereof. Preferred olefinic monomers include trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate bisphenol A ethoxylate di meth acrylate propoxylated glycerol tri meth acrylate trimethylolpropane ethoxylate tri meth acrylate di trimethyolpropane tetra meth acrylate or combination thereof. The olefinic monomer may contain a C C alcohol radical such as hydroxymethyl 1 hydroxyethyl 2 hydroxyethyl 1 hydroxypropyl 2 hydroxypropyl 3 hydroxypropyl 1 hydroxybutyl 4 hydroxybutyl 1 hydroxypentyl 5 hydroxypentyl 1 hydroxyhexyl 6 hydroxyhexyl 1 6 dihydroxyhexyl 1 4 dihydroxybutyl and the like.

Exemplary allyl ether monomers contain one or more allyl ether groups which typically are bonded to a core structural group which can be based on a wide variety of polyhydric alcohols. Non limiting examples of suitable polyhydric alcohols include neopentyl glycol trimethylolpropane ethylene glycol propylene glycol butylene glycol diethylene glycol trimethylene glycol triethylene glycol trimethylolethane pentaerythritol glycerol diglycerol 1 4 butanediol 1 6 hexanediol 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and any of the other polyols mentioned above in connection with the meth acrylate esters. Other exemplary allyl ether monomers include hydroxyethyl allyl ether hydroxypropyl allyl ether trimethylolpropane monoallyl ether trimethylolpropane diallyl ether trimethylolethane monoallyl ether trimethylolethane diallyl ether glycerol monoallyl ether glycerol diallyl ether pentaerythritol monoallyl ether pentaerythritol diallyl ether pentaerythritol triallyl ether 1 2 6 hexanetriol monoallyl ether 1 2 6 hexanetriol diallyl ether and the like. Preferred allyl ethers include poly propoxylated and ethoxylated forms of allyl ethers.

Exemplary vinyl ether monomers contain one or more vinyl ether groups and include 4 hydroxybutyl vinyl ether 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol monovinyl ether 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol divinyl ether ethylene glycol monovinyl ether ethylene glycol divinyl ether diethylene glycol monovinyl ether diethylene glycol divinyl ether triethylene glycol divinyl ether and the like. Preferred vinyl ether monomers include propoxylated or ethoxylated forms of vinyl ether monomers.

The olefinic compounds can include latex polymers or polyurethane dispersions having attached olefinic groups. These compounds can be prepared as described in applicants copending PCT Application Serial No. PCT US2007 061326 filed Jan. 30 2007 and entitled COATING SYSTEM FOR CEMENT COMPOSITE ARTICLES.

A subset of the previously mentioned olefinic compounds e.g. hexanediol di meth acrylate trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate and di trimethyolpropane tetra meth acrylate have multiple e.g. two or more reactive groups. These monomers or oligomers can function as crosslinking agents.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably contain about 2 to 100 by weight olefinic compounds based on the total weight of the non volatile components in the coating system more preferably about 10 to about 80 by weight and most preferably about 30 to about 70 by weight.

A variety of PVC dispersion resins may be optionally used in the disclosed coating systems and method. A PVC dispersion resin typically contains resin particles or a mixture of particles of various resins or missed resins in a liquid plasticizer. The PVC dispersion resin may for example include a PVC homopolymer copolymer or a combination thereof and various additives. PVC dispersion resins can be made by emulsion polymerization micro suspension polymerization or by a process borrowing from both techniques. PVC dispersion resins typically have very fine particles avg. 0.1 m to 1.5 m . Typically the PVC dispersion resin particles show little or no porosity and have very high surface area. When sufficient plasticizer is added to a dispersion resin e.g. about 40 phr or higher a liquid suspension which may be called a plastisol or organosol is obtained. Copolymers of vinyl chloride and other monomers such as acetates and acrylates can be used to produce dispersion resins. PVC dispersion resins are typically produced by suspension polymerization and have an average particle size range of about 25 m to 75 m. Exemplary commercially available PVC dispersion resins include GEON resins e.g. GEON 137 171 and 172 from Polyone Corporation Avon Lake Ohio and NORVINYL resins e.g. NORVINYL S6261 S6571 S7060 and S8060 from Hydro Polymers Oslo Norway.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably contain about 10 to about 80 by weight PVC dispersion resin based on the total weight of the non volatile components in the coating system more preferably about 20 to about 60 by weight and most preferably about 30 to about 40 by weight.

The disclosed coating systems may include one or more optional silicates e.g. a silicate salt . Exemplary silicates include lithium silicate potassium silicate sodium silicate ammonium silicate and the like. The amount of silicate may for example be from about 2 to about 50 by weight from about 5 to about 40 by weight or from about 10 to about 35 by weight based on the total weight of the non volatile components. Silicates are available through a variety of chemical suppliers for example potassium silicate is available from The PQ Corporation Valley Forge Pa.

Wet adhesion testing and freeze thaw cycles have been shown under laboratory conditions to simulate long term outdoor exposure encountered in northern climates. A Wet Adhesion Test may be carried out as follows to evaluate adhesion of the coating system after a coated cement fiberboard substrate has been saturated with water. According to this test procedure coated substrates e.g. fiber cement boards are soaked in room temperature water for 24 hours. After soaking the boards are removed from the water and kept at room temperature for 24 hours. A six inch 15.24 cm length of 3M HD 250 tape is applied to the surface of the board with the long axis of the tape in the direction of any embossing patterns that may be present. The tape is firmly pressed onto the board ensuring full contact. The tape is then removed by quickly pulling it off at a 90 degree angle to the board. Wet Adhesion performance is rated based on the percent of coating removed from the cement board. Performance is further assessed by noting where any failure occurs. For example failure may occur between interfacial coating layers between the coating and the surface of the board or within the board itself. Preferred coating systems or coating compositions typically have less than 25 coating removal more preferably less than 15 coating removal. In addition the failure preferably is within the board as indicated by a significant amount of fiber from the board adhering to the removed coating.

Preferred coated articles can withstand at least 30 freeze thaw cycles when tested according to ASTM D6944 03 Test Method A. As written this ASTM test method recites a 30 cycle sequence. However rather than simply grade a specimen as a pass at the end of 30 cycles the test desirably is lengthened to include additional cycles. More preferably the coated articles can withstand at least 75 freeze thaw cycles most preferably at least 125 freeze thaw cycles and optimally at least 175 freeze thaw cycles.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably have improved viz. lower volatile organic content VOC . The coating systems or coating compositions desirably have a VOC of less than about 5 based on the total weight of the coating system preferably a VOC of less than about 2 more preferably a VOC of less than about 0.5 .

The olefinic compounds are curable by radiation e.g. visible light ultra violet light electron beam microwave gamma radiation infrared radiation and the like. An initiator system is not required for electron beam curing but for other radiation sources typically will be chosen based on the particular type of curing energy e.g. UV visible light or other energy and cationic free radical cationic or other curing mechanism employed. Thus in one preferred embodiment the coating system is electron beam curable and does not require an initiator. In another preferred embodiment the coating system is UV curable and free radically polymerizable and includes a UV photoinitiator system which generates free radicals in response to UV light and thereby cures the coating.

Non limiting examples of initiators include peroxide compounds azo compounds cationic generating initiators cleavage type initiators hydrogen abstraction type initiators and the like. Exemplary peroxide compounds include t butyl perbenzoate t amyl perbenzoate cumene hydroperoxide t amyl peroctoate methyl ethyl ketone peroxide benzoyl peroxide cyclohexanone peroxide 2 4 pentanedione peroxide di t butyl peroxide t butyl hydroperoxide and di 2 ethylhexyl peroxydicarbonate. Preferably the curing agent is t butyl perbenzoate methyl ethyl ketone peroxide or cumene hydroperoxide. Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide conveniently is employed as a solution in dimethyl phthalate e.g. LUPERSOL DDM 9 from Ato Chem.

Exemplary azo compounds include 2 2 azo bis 2 4 dimethylpentanenitrile 2 2 azo bis 2 methylbutanenitrile and 2 2 azo bis 2 methylpropanenitrile .

Exemplary cationic generating photoinitiators include super acid generating photoinitiators such as triaryliodonium salts triarylsulfonium salts and the like. A preferred triarylsulfonium salt is triphenyl sulfonium hexafluorophosphate.

Exemplary cleavage type photoinitiators include diethoxyacetophenone DEAP dimethoxyphenylacetophenone IRGACURE 651 hydroxycyclo hexylphenylketone IRGACURE 184 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one DAROCUR 1173 a 25 75 blend of bis 2 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 2 4 4 trimethylpentyl phosphine oxide and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one IRGACURE 1700 a 50 50 blend of hydroxycyclo hexylphenylketone and benzophenone IRGACURE 500 50 50 blend of 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenyl phosphineoxide and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenyl propan 1 one DAROCUR 4265 bis acryl phosphine IRGACURE 819 and phosphine oxide IRGACURE 2100 all available from Ciba Corporation Ardsley N.Y. Other cleavage type initiators include 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenylphosphine oxide LUCIRIN TPO from BASF Corporation and a 70 30 blend of oligo 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 4 1 methylvinyl phenyl propan 1 one and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one KIP 100 available from Sartomer Exton Pa. . Preferred cleavage type photoinitiators are hydroxycyclo hexylphenylketone 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one benzophenone 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenylphosphine oxide bis acryl phosphine and a 70 30 blend of 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 4 1 methylvinyl phenyl propan 1 one and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one.

Non limiting examples of hydrogen abstraction type photoinitiators include benzophenone substituted benzophenones e.g. ESCACURE TZT of Fratelli Lamberti and other diaryl ketones such as xanthones thioxanthones Michler s ketone benzil quinones and substituted derivatives of all of the above. Camphorquinone is an example of a compound that may be used when one desires to cure a coating system with visible light.

For coating compositions or systems having an olefinic compound including a mixture of two or more of a meth acrylate an allyl ether and a vinyl ether functional group a combination of curing procedures can be used. For example a coating composition having a meth acrylate and a vinyl ether functional group typically may include an cleavage type or hydrogen abstraction type photoinitiator for polymerization of the meth acrylate groups and a cationic generating photoinitiator for polymerization of the vinyl ether groups.

If desired the coating composition or system may also include a co initiator or photoinitiator synergist. Non limiting examples of co initiators include 1 tertiary aliphatic amines such as methyl diethanol amine and triethanol amine 2 aromatic amines such as amylparadimethylaminobenzoate 2 n butoxyethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 2 dimethylamino ethylbenzoate ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate and 2 ethylhexyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 3 meth acrylated amines such as EBECRYL 7100 and UVECRYL P104 and P115 all from UCB RadCure Specialties and 4 amino functional acrylate or methacrylate resin or oligomer blends such as EBECRYL 3600 or EBECRYL 3703 both from UCB RadCure Specialties. Combinations of the above four categories of co initiators may also be used.

In the case of visible or UV radiation curing systems the preferred amount of photoinitiator present in the disclosed coating systems can be from about 0.2 to about 15 wt. of the non volatile components. More preferably the photoinitiator can be from about 0.5 to about 10 wt. and most preferably the photoinitiator can be from about 0.75 to about 5 wt. of the non volatile components.

Other methods for curing the coating systems can be used in combination with methods described herein Such other curing methods include heat cure chemical cure anaerobic cure moisture cure oxidative cure and the like. Such methods may require inclusion of a corresponding curing initiator or curing agent in the composition. For example heat cure can be induced by peroxides metal curing packages can induce an oxidative cure or multifunctional amines for example isophorone diamine can effect a chemical crosslinking cure through Michael addition of amine groups onto acrylate reactive unsaturated groups. If these additional initiators are present in the coating system they typically make up about 0.1 12 by weight of the curable coating system. Means for effecting cures by such methods are known to those of skill in the art or can be determined using standard methods.

Other optional components for use in the coating systems herein are described in Koleske et al. Paint and Coatings Industry April 2003 pages 12 86. Typical performance enhancing additives that may be employed include surface active agents pigments colorants dyes surfactants dispersants defoamers thickeners heat stabilizers leveling agents coalescents biocides mildewcides anti cratering agents curing indicators plasticizers fillers sedimentation inhibitors ultraviolet light absorbers optical brighteners and the like to modify properties.

The coating systems may also contain an optional coalescent and many coalescents are known in the art. The optional coalescent is preferably a low VOC coalescent such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 762 230.

Exemplary coating systems that can be used in the coating systems are listed below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of examples of coating systems. The examples include the following compositions 

Composition A An example of a coating system suitable for use in the invention includes a mixture of i olefinic monomers and or oligomers e.g. trimethylolpropane triacrylate TMPTA available from Sartomer and ii an initiator e.g. DAROCURE 1173 D 1173 available from Ciba .

Composition B An example of a coating system suitable for use in the invention includes a mixture of i olefinic monomers and or oligomers e.g. trimethylolpropane tri acrylate TMPTA ii an initiator e.g. DAROCURE 1173 D 1173 and iii PVC dispersion e.g. GEON 137 171 or 172 from PolyOne Corporation or NORVINYL S6261 S6571 S7060 or S8060 from Hydro Polymers .

The instant method includes applications of suitable coating systems which can be applied as a single layer or as multiple applications of at least one coating composition. The specific application and order of application of the selected coating compositions can be readily determined by a person skilled in the art of preparing and or applying such compositions. Exemplary descriptions of these coating systems are described below.

Accordingly the disclosed articles can be prepared by applying the coating system as a single layer or the coating system can be applied as multiple layers. Coating compositions applied using multiple coating layers may allow mixing of the coating layers at an interface.

In any of the above application routes when there is a carrier e.g. water or solvent present in one of more of the compositions the coated article may be subjected to quick drying to remove at least a portion of any carrier which may be present. Preferably however a carrier is not present and drying is not required since the gap length which typically will be less than the length of a standard cement fiberboard substrate e.g. less than about 2.5 to 3 m constrains the available space and time within which coating application and radiation curing may be accomplished. The coating composition s are preferably applied at about 75 to 100 solids by weight and preferably at about 85 to 100 solids.

The coating systems may be applied by any number of application techniques including but not limited to brushing e.g. using a brush coater direct roll coating reverse roll coating dip coating and spraying. The various techniques each offer a unique set of advantages and disadvantages depending upon the substrate profile morphology and tolerable application efficiencies. The disclosed coating systems can for example advantageously be applied to a cement fiberboard substrate by roll coating or spraying. Roll coating can help support the substrate as it passes across the gap. Spraying can be carried out using compact equipment and thus may allow additional space and time within the gap for the performance of other steps including leveling drying radiation curing or the application of additional coating composition layers. Lower viscosities facilitate uniform film control. The applied film thickness may be controlled by varying the application rate.

A dry film thickness DFT of the coating system on the cement fiberboard substrate can be in the range of but not limited to about 0.2 to about 2 mil about 0.005 to about 0.05 mm more preferably about 0.3 to about 1.5 mil about 0.008 to about 0.04 mm .

It is preferred that the coated articles are coated on at least the bottom surface with the coating system. More preferably the coated articles are coated on the bottom surface and up to four minor surfaces including any edges. Most preferably the coated articles are coated on both major surfaces and up to four minor surfaces including any edges.

Multiple layers of the disclosed coating systems may be applied. Where multiple layers are to be applied with radiation curing between layers supporting rollers or groups of supporting rollers may be placed within the gap between a radiation curing unit and a downstream further coating applicator. A topcoat may be applied directly to the coating system.

The coating systems and compositions described herein may be used in place of or in addition to coatings that the prior art has categorized as sealers primers and topcoats. However the systems and compositions may not fit neatly into any category per se and such terms should not be limiting.

It is also noted that the disclosed coating systems and coating compositions can be used with other coating compositions such as those disclosed in the following applications U.S. application Ser. Nos. 60 764 103 60 764 044 60 764 242 all filed Jan. 31 2006 and 60 802 185 filed May 19 2006.

All patents patent applications and literature cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of any inconsistencies the present disclosure including any definitions therein will prevail. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within invention.

