---

title: Calibration management for volatile organic compound detector
abstract: A method for calibrating a volatile organic compound (VOC) detector. In one implementation, an initiation request may be received indicating a gas concentration level amount to be used for calibrating a VOC detector. A gas may be provided to the VOC detector according to the gas concentration level amount. The VOC detector may be provided with the gas concentration level amount. A calibration log may be received from the VOC detector. The calibration log may comprise an identifier of the VOC detector, the gas concentration level amount, and a date indicating when the VOC detector received the gas concentration level amount and the gas according to the gas concentration level amount.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07840366&OS=07840366&RS=07840366
owner: Environmental Analytics, Inc.
number: 07840366
owner_city: Nassau Bay
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080215
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 890 396 filed Feb. 16 2007 titled CALIBRATION OF VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND DETECTOR and the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Implementations of various technologies described herein are directed to volatile organic compound VOC detection and to various methods and or systems for managing the calibration of VOC detectors.

The following descriptions and examples do not constitute an admission as prior art by virtue of their inclusion within this section.

Industrial plants that handle volatile organic compounds VOCs sometimes experience unwanted emissions of those compounds into the atmosphere from point sources such as smokestacks and non point sources such as valves pumps and or vessels containing the VOCs. Emissions from non point sources typically occur due to leakage of the VOCs from joints and or seals and may be referred to herein as fugitive emissions . Fugitive emissions from control valves typically occur as leakage through the packing set around the valve stem. Control valves used in demanding service conditions involving large temperature fluctuations and frequent movements of the valve stem commonly suffer accelerated deterioration of the valve stem packing set.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency EPA has promulgated regulations specifying maximum permitted leakage of certain hazardous air pollutants such as benzene toluene 1 1 1 trichloroethane from certain hardware or fixtures e.g. control valves. Fugitive emissions are typically monitored using a VOC detector which may also be referred to as a vapor analyzer. Government regulations require that VOC detectors used in the testing of valves and other components in petrochemical processing or manufacturing facilities be calibrated at various intervals. These calibration activities must be documented and records made available for inspection for up to five years. If the calibrations are not performed or if they are performed but not documented the facility owner can be fined and or suffer other regulatory sanctions.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies for managing the calibration of a VOC detector. In one implementation an initiation request may be received indicating a gas concentration level amount to be used for calibrating a VOC detector. A gas may be provided to the VOC detector according to the gas concentration level amount. The VOC detector may be provided with the gas concentration level amount. A calibration log may be received from the VOC detector. The calibration log may comprise an identifier of the VOC detector the gas concentration level amount and a date indicating when the VOC detector received the gas concentration level amount and the gas according to the gas concentration level amount.

In another implementation a validation request may be received indicating a gas concentration level amount. Gas may be provided to the VOC detector according to the gas concentration level amount. A detection message indicating a concentration level of gas detected by the VOC detector may be received. The calibration of the VOC detector may be validated based on the gas concentration level amount and the concentration level of gas detected by the VOC detector.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

The following paragraphs generally describe one or more implementations of various techniques directed to calibrating a volatile organic compound VOC detector. In one implementation the VOC detector calibration system includes a VOC detector and a spanbox in communication with a personal digital assistant PDA .

In operation a user selects the VOC detectors to be calibrated from a list of available VOC detectors presented on the PDA. The user may further select a set of gas cylinders to be used in the calibration according to a 4 point set of qualifying criteria. The VOC detectors may then be calibrated according to device specific calibration methods.

In general calibration involves providing gas with a specific methane level into the VOC detectors and identifying the specific level to the VOC detector. The spanbox provides the gas containing the specific methane level from cylinders connected to the spanbox to the VOC detectors.

After calibration the VOC detectors may be checked to ensure proper detection. Again the spanbox provides the gas with specific methane level into the VOC detectors. The VOC detectors determine the methane content of the gas and signal the detected methane level to the PDA. The software on the PDA compares the detected level to the actual level and determines whether the VOC detectors pass the validation.

Validation may be based on the accuracy within which the VOC detectors detect the actual methane levels. Further the validation may be based on an average of detected methane levels over several trials. Alternately the validation may be based on how much time it takes for the VOC detectors to detect the actual level of methane in the gas. One or more implementations of various techniques for calibrating a VOC detector and validating the calibration of the VOC detector will now be described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

The gas sources may be configured to provide gas to the calibration system . The gas sources may provide different concentrations of gas over each of the gas lines to the spanbox . For example the gas sources may provide a methane gas concentration of 100 parts per million PPM over a first gas line a concentration of 550 PPM over a second gas line 750 PPM over a third gas line etc.

The spanbox may be configured to facilitate the delivery of gas to the VOC detector . The gas sources may be coupled to the spanbox via one or more gas lines . In one implementation each gas line may provide a different concentration of methane gas to the spanbox . Accordingly the spanbox may select a specific gas concentration from among the gas lines and provide the selected gas concentration to the VOC detectors . Although various implementations described herein are with reference to methane gas it should be understood that in some implementations other types of gas may be used such as hexane propane carbon tetrachloride and the like.

Further although various implementations are described with reference to a spanbox providing gas to the VOC detector it should be understood that in some implementations the gas may be delivered directly to the VOC detector without use of a spanbox . For example the delivery of the gas to the VOC detector may be performed manually using bags containers and the like.

The spanbox may be in communication with the PDA which is described in more detail in . The spanbox may also be coupled to the VOC detectors . The PDA may be in communication with the spanbox and the VOC detectors . Communication between the PDA and the spanbox or the VOC detectors may occur over wired or wireless connections. In one implementation the PDA communicates with the spanbox over a serial cable and with the VOC detector via Bluetooth communications.

The VOC detectors may be configured to detect volatile organic chemicals emissions gases nitro aromatics chemical warfare agents and the like. In one implementation the VOC detectors are TVA 1000 s available from The Foxboro Company of Massachusetts USA. However it should be understood that some implementations may use other types of VOC detectors.

The PDA may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk. The hard disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface . The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the PDA .

The PDA may further include computer readable media that may be accessed by the CPU . For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the CPU .

Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on ROM or RAM including an operating system a calibration program and a calibration validation program . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. The calibration program will be described in more detail with reference to in the paragraphs below. Similarly the calibration validation program will be described in more detail with reference to in the paragraphs below.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

For example the various technologies described herein may be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Before validation the VOC detector may need to be warmed up for a pre determined time period. In one implementation the calibration program may measure the amount of time in the warm up period and store the time. A determination may be made as to whether the warm up period is sufficient for the VOC detector . For example if the warm up period is equal to or greater than a pre determined amount of time e.g. 30 minutes the VOC detector may be deemed as having passed. Alternatively if the warm up period is less than the predetermined amount then the VOC detector may be deemed as having failed.

At step a calibration request may be received by the PDA . In one implementation the calibration request may be a request from a user operating the PDA . The calibration request may specify a gas concentration level to be used for calibrating the VOC detector .

At step a VOC detector selection may be received by the PDA . In one implementation the calibration program may be configured to present a list of VOC detectors that are available for calibration. Accordingly a user operating the PDA may select one of the VOC detectors to be calibrated.

At step a gas source selection may be received by the PDA . In one implementation the calibration program may be configured to present a list of gas sources that are available for calibration. Accordingly a user operating the PDA may select one or more of the gas sources to provide the gas for calibrating the VOC detector selected at step .

At step a calibration mode command may be sent to the VOC detector . In response to the command the VOC detector may be configured to send a calibration log to the PDA after the calibration is complete.

At step a flow request may be sent to the spanbox . The flow request may include the gas concentration level amount specified in the calibration request received in step . In response the spanbox may provide a gas with the specified gas concentration level to the VOC detector .

At step the calibration program may provide the VOC detector with the gas concentration level amount. In one implementation the VOC detector may combust the gas provided by the spanbox to derive an electronic signature. At step the VOC detector may internally store a record that associates the electronic signature of the combusted gas with the gas concentration level amount. At step a calibration log may be received from the VOC detector by the calibration program that includes an identifier of the VOC detector e.g. a serial number the gas concentration level amount and a date and or time that the calibration takes place. The calibration log may be stored on the PDA or another device. Advantageously by storing the calibration log digitally typical recordation errors that may otherwise incur regulatory sanctions can be avoided.

In one implementation one or more VOC detectors may be selected at step and steps may be repeated for each selected VOC detector. Further calibrating a VOC detector typically requires multiple gas concentration level specifications. As such steps may be repeated for each gas concentration level specification on each VOC detector selected at step .

At step a validation request may be received by the PDA . In one implementation the validation request may be a request from a user operating the PDA . The validation request may specify a gas concentration level to be used for validating the calibration of the VOC detector .

At step a validation mode command may be sent to the VOC detector . In response to receiving the command the VOC detector may be configured to analyze the gas concentration level and send the detected gas concentration level to the PDA .

At step a flow request may be sent to the spanbox . The flow request may include the gas concentration level amount specified in the validation request received in step . In response to receiving the flow request the spanbox may provide a gas with the specified gas concentration level to the VOC detector .

In one implementation the VOC detector operating in the validation mode may analyze the gas provided by the spanbox and send a signal specifying the concentration of gas detected to the PDA . At step the PDA may receive a detection message indicating the concentration level of gas detected by the VOC detector . In one implementation the validation program may be configured to measure the amount of time it would take the VOC detector to detect a gas concentration level within a specified range of the actual gas concentration level.

At step the validation program may determine whether the VOC detector passes the validation test. In one implementation determining whether the VOC detector passes the validation test may be based on whether the detected gas concentration level is within a specified range of the actual gas concentration level. In another implementation determining whether the VOC detector passes the validation test may be based on whether gas concentration level detected by the VOC detector is within a specified range of the gas concentration level amount within a specified time period. The specified range the specified percentage and or the specified time periods may be user specified. For example the specified percentage may be 90 percent. In one implementation the VOC detector may be calibrated and validated three times and an average of the variance between the detected gas concentration level is calculated. In this implementation the validation test may be based on whether the detected gas concentration level is within a specified percentage of a known gas.

At step the validation program may present a validation result message. If the VOC detector passes the validation test the validation program may present a validation success message. If the VOC detector does not pass the validation test the validation program may present a validation failure message.

In one implementation the validation program may store the result of the validation test. The stored result may also include an identifier of the VOC detector validated the concentration level of the gas provided for the validation test and a date and or time of the validation.

Although implementations of various technologies described herein are described with reference to a PDA it should be understood that some implementations may be operational with other types of computing systems such as laptop devices personal computers multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics minicomputers and the like.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

