---

title: Bead manipulations on a droplet actuator
abstract: A droplet actuator comprising: (a) a base substrate comprising electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations on a droplet operations surface thereof; (b) a droplet comprising one or more beads situated on the droplet operations surface; (c) a barrier arranged in relation to the droplet and the electrodes such that a droplet may be transported away from the beads using one or more droplet operations mediated by one or more of the electrodes while transport of the beads is restrained by a barrier. Related methods and kits are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08591830&OS=08591830&RS=08591830
owner: Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc.
number: 08591830
owner_city: Research Triangle Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080825
---
This application claims priority to and incorporates by reference International Application PCT US2008 074151 filed Aug. 25 2008 entitled Bead Manipulations on a Droplet Actuator which claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. Patent Application No. 60 957 717 filed on Aug. 24 2007 entitled Bead Washing Using Physical Barriers and U.S. Patent Application No. 60 980 767 filed on Oct. 17 2007 entitled Bead manipulations in a droplet actuator. 

This invention was made with government support under CA114993 01 and HG003706 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health of the United States. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to the field of droplet actuators and droplet operations conducted using droplet actuators.

Droplet actuators are used to conduct a wide variety of droplet operations. A droplet actuator typically includes two plates separated by a gap. The plates include electrodes for conducting droplet operations. The space is typically filled with a filler fluid that is immiscible with the fluid that is to be manipulated on the droplet actuator. The formation and movement of droplets is controlled by electrodes for conducting a variety of droplet operations such as droplet transport and droplet dispensing. When a protocol requires the use of beads such as magnetic beads it may be useful to retain the beads in a particular location within the droplet actuator rather than allowing the beads to move freely throughout the droplet actuator and therefore there is a need for alternative approaches to manipulating beads in a droplet actuator.

The invention provides a droplet actuator. In an exemplary embodiment the droplet actuator may include a base substrate comprising electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations on a droplet operations surface thereof a droplet comprising one or more beads situated on the droplet operations surface a barrier arranged in relation to the droplet and the electrodes such that a droplet may be transported away from the beads using one or more droplet operations mediated by one or more of the electrodes while transport of the beads is restrained by a barrier.

In some cases the droplet actuator also includes a top substrate such as a top plate separated from the droplet operations surface to form a gap for conducting droplet operations. When a top substrate is present the barrier is coupled to and extends downward from the top substrate. The barrier may be configured to leave a gap between a bottom edge of the barrier and the droplet operations surface.

In some embodiments the barrier may include a vertical gap through which fluid may pass during a droplet operation mediated by one or more of the electrodes. When present the vertical gap may in certain embodiments be situated over an electrode. In some embodiments the vertical gap extends substantially from a surface of the top substrate facing the gap and the droplet operations surface.

In some embodiments the droplet actuator of the invention includes one or more beads are completely surrounded by and or trapped the barrier. In such an embodiment the one or more beads are blocked by the barrier from being transported away from the barrier enclosure in any direction while permitting droplets to be transported into and out of the barrier s enclosure. For example the barrier may be an enclosed barrier of any shape situated on a path of electrodes configured for transporting droplets into contact with and away from beads which are trapped within the confines of the barrier. The droplets may for example contain reagents samples and or smaller beads which are sufficiently small to be transported into and out of the barrier. In one embodiment the barrier comprises a rectangular barrier situated on a path of electrodes configured for transporting droplets wherein one side of the rectangular barrier is situated about halfway across a first electrode and another side of the rectangular barrier situated about halfway across a second electrode.

In other embodiments the barrier may include an angular barrier traversing an electrode path and pointing in a direction which is away from a bead retaining area of the barrier. In a similar embodiment the barrier may include an angular barrier traversing an electrode path and pointing in a direction which is towards a bead retaining region of the barrier.

In one embodiment the barrier is configured such that one or more beads are blocked by the barrier from being transported away from the barrier in the first direction but not blocked by the barrier from being transported away from the barrier in the second direction. In another embodiment the barrier includes an opening which permits beads having a size which is below a predetermined size limit to traverse the barrier while retaining beads which are above the predetermined size limit.

The barrier may include an opening which permits beads having a size which is below a predetermined size limit to traverse the barrier while retaining beads which are above the predetermined size limit. In certain embodiments the droplet actuator comprises two or more barriers wherein each barrier has a gap which is sized to retain beads of a different predetermined bead size limit.

In certain embodiments the barrier is traversed by a first elongated gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode having a thick base at a first end thereof on a bead retaining side of the barrier and gradually narrowing to a narrow apex at a second end on an opposite side of the barrier. In another embodiment the barrier is traversed by a first elongated gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode having a thick base at a first end thereof opposite a bead retaining side of the barrier and gradually narrowing to a narrow apex at a second end on a bead retaining side of the barrier. For example the first droplet operations electrode may have a generally triangular shape having two sides that are similar in length and substantially longer than a third side. The triangular shape may comprise elongated right triangle equilateral triangle or scalene triangle. In certain embodiments a second elongated gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode oriented alongside the first gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode such that the base of the first gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode is adjacent to the apex of the second gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode and the apex of the first gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode is adjacent to the base of the second gradually narrowing droplet operations electrode. In certain embodiments the droplet actuator includes two sets of the first and second elongated gradually narrowing droplet operations electrodes traversing the barrier.

The beads used in the droplet actuator of the invention may in some embodiments comprise biological cells bound thereto. The beads may for example include substantially pure populations biological cells bound thereto. In other embodiments the barriers may be used to retain free biological cells or clumps of biological cells during a droplet operation.

In another embodiment the droplet actuator includes a base substrate comprising electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations on a droplet operations surface thereof a funnel shaped reservoir having a narrow opening situated in proximity to the base substrate wherein the foregoing are arranged such that a portion of a sample comprising beads loaded in the funnel will flow onto the droplet operations surface and wherein the portion of the sample comprises a substantial amount of the beads. In another embodiment a magnetic field source may be situated in a manner which attracts magnetic beads from the funnel shaped reservoir onto the substrate surface. A top substrate may be arranged in a manner which is parallel to the droplet operations surface and the narrow opening of the funnel shaped reservoir may pass through the top substrate.

In yet another embodiment the droplet actuator includes a base substrate comprising electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations on a droplet operations surface thereof a top substrate arranged in a generally parallel fashion relative to the droplet operations surface and beads trapped in a barrier on the droplet actuator wherein the barrier permits droplets to be transported in to and out of the barrier using droplet operations mediated by one or more of the electrodes while retaining one or more of the beads within the barrier. In some cases the barrier retains substantially all of the beads within the barrier. In certain embodiments two or more of the electrodes are arranged for conducting droplet operations within the barrier. The droplet actuator may include an array of barriers each barrier retaining beads comprising a specific bead type the array including a multiplicity of bead types. The beads comprise biological cells bound thereto. The beads may include a substantially pure population of biological cells bound thereto.

The invention also includes a method of reducing a volume of fluid surrounding a bead. The method may include transporting a portion of the volume of fluid past a barrier on a droplet actuator where in the barrier restrains transport of the bead while permitting the fluid to pass. The beads may include biological cells bound thereto. The volume of fluid may include culture medium selected for growing the biological cells. The transporting may be conducted using one or more droplet operations. The droplet operations may be electrode mediated. The droplet operations may be electrowetting mediated. The droplet operations may be dielectrophoresis mediated. The portion of the volume of fluid may be further subjected to one or more droplet operations in an assay protocol.

The invention provides a method of providing a nutrient to a biological cell. The method may in some embodiments generally include reducing a volume of fluid surrounding a bead comprising biological cells adhered thereto and conducting one or more droplet operations to bring into contact with the beads a fluid comprising the nutrient. The beads may include a substantially pure population of biological cells bound thereto. The beads may include interacting populations of cells.

The invention also includes a method of separating a volume of fluid from one or more beads the method comprising transporting the volume of fluid past a barrier on a droplet actuator wherein the barrier restrains transport of one or more of the one or more beads.

Further the invention includes a method of transporting a droplet substantially free of beads away from a droplet containing beads. The method may for example include providing a droplet actuator as described herein and transporting the droplet containing beads across the barrier wherein the barrier retains the beads and a droplet substantially free of beads is formed on an opposite side of the barrier.

The invention also includes a method of washing beads on a droplet actuator. The method may include a providing a droplet actuator as described herein b transporting the droplet containing beads across the barrier wherein the barrier retains the beads and a droplet substantially free of beads is formed on an opposite side of the barrier c transporting a wash droplet into contact with the beads and d repeating the foregoing steps b and c until washing of the beads is complete.

The invention also includes a method of sorting beads on a droplet actuator. The method may include providing a droplet actuator comprising a base substrate comprising electrodes configured for conducting droplet operations on a droplet operations surface thereof a first barrier arranged to permit beads having a size which is below a first predetermined size to traverse the barrier while retaining beads which are above the first predetermined size transporting a droplet comprising beads having at least three sizes through the first barrier to provide a retained droplet comprising beads above the first predetermined size and a transmitted droplet comprising beads above the first predetermined size. In a related embodiment the droplet actuator further comprises a second barrier arranged to permit beads having a size which is below a second predetermined size to traverse the barrier while retaining beads which are above the second predetermined size the method further comprises transporting a droplet comprising beads having at least three sizes through the first barrier to provide a retained droplet comprising beads above the first predetermined size and a transmitted droplet comprising beads above the first predetermined size transporting the retained droplet through the second barrier to provide a retained droplet comprising beads above the first and second predetermined sizes and a transmitted droplet comprising beads above the first predetermined size and below the second predetermined size.

The invention further includes a method of making a droplet actuator. The method comprising situating beads in a barrier on a droplet actuator between a top substrate and a droplet operations surface wherein the barrier blocks transport of the beads outside of the barrier on all sides and permits fluid to be transported via droplet operations into and or out of the barrier.

The invention further includes a kit. The kit generally includes a droplet actuator. The droplet actuator includes beads situated within a barrier between the top substrate and a droplet operations surface thereof and a further component selected from the group consisting of a filler fluid for use with the droplet actuator a reagent for use of the droplet actuator a device for use in loading of fluid on the droplet actuator.

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means effecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which results in a droplet operation.

 Bead with respect to beads on a droplet actuator means any bead or particle that is capable of interacting with a droplet on or in proximity with a droplet actuator. Beads may be any of a wide variety of shapes such as spherical generally spherical egg shaped disc shaped cubical and other three dimensional shapes. The bead may for example be capable of being transported in a droplet on a droplet actuator configured with respect to a droplet actuator in a manner which permits a droplet on the droplet actuator to be brought into contact with the bead on the droplet actuator and or off the droplet actuator. Beads may be manufactured using a wide variety of materials including for example resins and polymers. The beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads are magnetically responsive in other cases beads are not significantly magnetically responsive. For magnetically responsive beads the magnetically responsive material may constitute substantially all of a bead or one component only of a bead. The remainder of the bead may include among other things polymeric material coatings and moieties which permit attachment of an assay reagent. Examples of suitable magnetically responsive beads are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase published on Nov. 24 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for its teaching concerning magnetically responsive materials and beads. The beads may include one or more populations of biological cells adhered thereto. In some cases the biological cells are a substantially pure population. In other cases the biological cells include different cell populations e.g cell populations which interact with one another such as engineered tissue or a whole animal such as for example 

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator that is at least partially bounded by filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes nonlimiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations that are sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to size of the resulting droplets i.e. the size of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading capillary loading and pipette syringe dropper loading. Droplet operations may be electrode mediated. In some cases droplet operations are further facilitated by the use of hydrophilic and or hydrophobic regions on surfaces and or by physical obstacles.

 Washing with respect to washing a magnetically responsive bead means reducing the amount of one or more substances in contact with the magnetically responsive bead or exposed to the magnetically responsive bead from a droplet in contact with the magnetically responsive bead. The reduction in the amount of the substance may be partial substantially complete or even complete. The substance may be any of a wide variety of substances examples include target substances for further analysis and unwanted substances such as components of a sample contaminants and or excess reagent. In some embodiments a washing operation begins with a starting droplet in contact with a magnetically responsive bead where the droplet includes an initial total amount of a substance. The washing operation may proceed using a variety of droplet operations. The washing operation may yield a droplet including the magnetically responsive bead where the droplet has a total amount of the substance which is less than the initial amount of the substance. Other embodiments are described elsewhere herein and still others will be immediately apparent in view of the present disclosure.

The terms top and bottom when used e.g. to refer to the top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator are used for convenience only the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its position in space.

When a given component such as a layer region or substrate is referred to herein as being disposed or formed on another component that given component can be directly on the other component or alternatively intervening components for example one or more coatings layers interlayers electrodes or contacts can also be present. It will be further understood that the terms disposed on and formed on are used interchangeably to describe how a given component is positioned or situated in relation to another component. Hence the terms disposed on and formed on are not intended to introduce any limitations relating to particular methods of material transport deposition or fabrication.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator e.g. a layer of filler fluid.

The invention provides mechanisms for manipulating beads in a droplet actuator. In certain embodiments the invention provides physical barriers of varying geometries and features for retaining a quantity of beads in certain locations within a droplet actuator. The physical barriers may be arranged in the gap of a droplet actuator such that one or more electrodes is confined therein. The physical barriers may be configured so that they do not prevent the flow of liquid across the barrier. Therefore liquid can be made to flow through the physical barrier while the beads are retained in place permitting the liquid surrounding the beads to be removed or replaced with fresh liquid. A quantity of beads may be retained within the physical barrier. The beads may be manipulated using various droplet operations. In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of manipulating different sized beads using a combination of different physical barriers in a single droplet actuator.

In the example that is illustrated in gap has a height a of about 200 microns each electrode has a width b of about 900 microns physical barrier has a width c of about 100 microns to about 200 microns and a space between physical barrier and the surface of a certain electrode has a height d that is less than the diameter of beads in order to prevent beads from passing therethrough while still allowing fluid to flow therethrough. In one example space has a height d of about 20 microns to about 40 microns. These dimensions and other dimensions provided in this patent application are for example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as the dimensions may be readily adjusted by one of skill in the art.

A physical barrier such as physical barrier as well as the physical barriers described in the embodiments of B and may be formed of materials such as but not limited to cryotape or solder mask. Furthermore a physical barrier such as physical barrier as well as the physical barriers described in the embodiments of B and may be a photo configurable barrier that may be formed using known photolithography processes as long as the materials do not unduly interfere with the droplet actuator operations.

In operation and referring to when performing droplet operations fluid may flow bidirectionally along the fluid channel of droplet actuator and through physical barrier via space . During the droplet operations the quantity of beads are substantially retained preferably entirely retained within physical barrier and not allowed to move freely throughout droplet actuator . Because there may be two or more electrodes confined within the boundaries of physical barrier droplet operations and bead manipulation may occur within the confines of physical barrier . In one example droplet agitation may occur within the confines of physical barrier such that the movement of beads within droplets facilitates internal mixing of droplet components. The droplet agitation may for example facilitate complete mixing of the reagents and or samples for a reaction and or complete mixing of a wash solution with the beads.

In operation and referring to when performing droplet operations fluid may flow bidirectionally along the fluid channel of droplet actuator and through physical barrier via space space and optionally space . During the droplet operations the quantity of beads are retained entirely within physical barrier and not allowed to move freely throughout droplet actuator . Because there may be two or more electrodes confined within the boundaries of physical barrier droplet operations and bead manipulation may occur within the confines of physical barrier .

In one embodiment the present invention can be used as a cell culturing device where the cells are held in place by the physical barriers while the cell culture media are transported into and out of contact with the cells. Transport of the liquid underneath the barrier can be assisted by placing an electrode on the bottom of facing the liquid and electrode . These two electrodes can then be used to generate greater wetting force to facilitate droplet transport through a smaller gap d. Cells can be transported into the barrier through the gap e.

In some embodiments a series of such barriers may be employed to separate beads of different sizes. For example a series of barriers with progressively smaller gaps between the barrier and the droplet operations surface can be used to retain progressively smaller beads. In this case the barriers may effectively function as serial sieves. The largest beads get trapped at the first barrier while the other sizes can be transported through the barrier to the next barrier. The set of smaller sized beads are trapped at the second barrier while other still smaller beads are transported to a third barrier. The process can be repeated with additional barriers in series until substantially all of beads are depleted from the droplet.

In a similar embodiment a series of barriers like the barriers illustrated in may be employed. The barriers may have different gap heights at the entry and exit points to enable entry of larger beads at the entry point and retaining them at the exit point.

In another related embodiment the barrier may be composed of pillar like structures. The shape of these pillars can be cylindrical hemispherical or any other suitable shape. They may span the entire gap height between the top and bottom substrates or some subsection of the gap height. The dimension and materials used to construct the materials are selected to ensure that droplet operations can be performed through the pillars while retaining at the pillars any beads that are larger than the gaps between the pillars and or gaps between the pillars at the surface of one of the substrates. A sieve can be formed with groups of pillars that have different spaces between them to allow beads of certain sizes to pass through. Gap sizes between the pillars can be set changing pillar diameter and or pillar spacing. For example gap sizes between the pillars can be set by fixing the pillar diameter and varying the spacing between pillars or by fixing the number of pillars and varying the diameter of each pillar. For example such a design can be used for separating cells of different sizes from a sample matrix such as blood which has cells of different diameters. Similarly differently sized beads can be separated using a series of sequentially smaller pillars as sieves.

In any bead separation operation using a physical barrier it may be useful to shuttle the droplet back and forth across the barrier in order to permit smaller beads to traverse the barrier without being blocked by larger beads. Further a traverse and split method may be used whereby a droplet is transported past a barrier and a new droplet is introduced to the retained beads. The new droplet may be shuttled back and forth one or more times to mix the beads in the droplet after which the new droplet may be transported across the barrier. This process may be repeated until substantially all of the beads retained by the barrier are beads which have a diameter larger than the opening s in the barrier and substantially all of the beads which have a diameter smaller than the opening s in the barrier have been transported across the barrier.

First electrode pair includes a tapered e.g. triangle shaped electrode along with a corresponding opposite tapered electrode as shown in which spans one fluid entry exit boundary of physical barrier . Similarly second electrode pair includes a tapered electrode along with a corresponding opposite tapered electrode as shown in which spans the opposite fluid entry exit boundary of physical barrier . Additionally shows that one or more electrodes are arranged within physical barrier and between first electrode pair and second electrode pair for facilitating droplet operations within the confines of physical barrier . Furthermore a quantity of beads not shown is retained within physical barrier .

The geometry of electrode pair and electrode pair provide improved facilitation of the droplet operations by better facilitating the transport of droplets not shown across the boundaries of physical barrier . More specifically favoring the movement of droplets into physical barrier the smaller areas of for example tapered electrode and tapered electrode are located outside of physical barrier which is favorable for causing the bulk of a droplet to align with the larger area of the triangle that lies inside of physical barrier . By contrast favoring the movement of droplets out of physical barrier the smaller areas of for example tapered electrode and tapered electrode are located inside of physical barrier which is favorable for causing the bulk of a droplet to align with the larger area of the triangle that lies outside of physical barrier .

An example sequence for transporting a droplet from electrode to electrode is as follows. A droplet is transported to electrode . Then electrode is activated and electrode is deactivated in order to pull the droplet onto electrode . Then electrode is deactivated and electrode is activated which pulls the droplet onto electrode that is inside physical barrier . In opposite fashion electrode is used for transporting the droplet in the opposite direction from electrode to electrode

In the example of one fluid entry exit end of physical barrier may have a pointed shape that is pointing away from the center of physical barrier which is a geometry that is favorable for moving a droplet not shown into physical barrier . This is because the smaller area of a certain electrode is located outside of physical barrier which is favorable for a droplet to fill the larger area that is located inside of physical barrier . Alternatively both fluid entry exit ends of physical barrier may have a pointed shape that is pointing away from the center of physical barrier .

In the example of one fluid entry exit end of physical barrier may have a pointed shape that is pointing toward the center of physical barrier which is a geometry that is favorable for moving a droplet not shown out of physical barrier . This is because the smaller area of a certain electrode is located inside of physical barrier which is favorable for a droplet to fill their larger area that is located outside of physical barrier . Alternatively both fluid entry exit ends of physical barrier may have a pointed shape that is pointing toward the center of physical barrier .

Referring again to a physical barrier may have a geometry that is the combination of droplet actuator and droplet actuator . More specifically one fluid entry exit end of the physical barrier may have a pointed shape that is pointing toward the center of the physical barrier while the opposite entry exit end of the physical barrier may have a pointed shape that is pointing away from the center of the physical barrier.

Referring again to B A B and during manufacturing the beads may be placed within the respective physical barriers. Alternatively the beads are fabricated within the physical barrier during the fabrication of the droplet actuator chip. As a result a physical barrier that can completely retain the beads allows the beads to be transported and stored with the droplet actuator.

Referring again to a single droplet actuator may include multiple physical barriers of any type and combination of those described in . In one application a single droplet actuator may include different types of beads within different physical barriers respectively. In one example a droplet actuator may have an array of the box shaped physical barriers of or A and B where each barrier may contain a different type of bead. Because there may be a continuous arrangement of electrodes within the droplet actuator increased flexibility is provided for moving one sample through all the different physical barriers and thereby providing the ability to perform different assays within the one droplet actuator. illustrates more details of an example droplet actuator that includes multiple physical barriers. In one embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator with an array of the same or different kinds of trapped beads.

The function of openings and is to allow only the beads that are smaller than the openings to pass therethrough and to retain only the beads that are larger than the openings. Used in combination as shown in U shaped physical barriers and may be used to separate different sized beads. For example and referring again to a method of using physical barriers for separating beads of different diameters includes but is not limited to one or more of the following steps. 1 providing a droplet actuator e.g. droplet actuator of that includes an arrangement of continuous electrodes e.g. electrodes of and an arrangement of multiple physical barriers e.g. physical barriers and of with different sized openings 2 moving a droplet that contains two or more sized beads into a first physical barrier e.g. physical barrier of that has the smallest opening and then agitating the droplet which causes the smallest beads to pass through the opening and causes larger beads to be retained 3 moving a droplet that contains two or more sized beads into a next physical barrier e.g. physical barrier of that has a slightly larger opening than the first physical barrier and then agitating the droplet which causes the next larger beads to pass through the opening and causes yet larger beads to be retained 4 moving a droplet that contains two or more sized beads into a next physical barrier e.g. physical barrier of that has a yet larger opening then the previous physical barrier and then agitating the droplet which causes the yet larger beads to pass through the opening and causes yet larger beads to be retained and 5 repeating the above steps for any number of physical barriers and any number of corresponding sized beads.

In reference to in some embodiments a physical barrier with or without openings may be arranged over a grid or array of electrodes and droplets may enter and leave the physical barrier in multiple directions. In one embodiment a square barrier with or without openings is provided along with a grid of square electrodes. In another embodiment a hexagonal barrier with or without openings is provided along with a grid of hexagonal electrodes. In yet another embodiment an octagonal barrier with or without openings is provided along with a grid of octagonal electrodes. The electrode shape and the barrier shape need not be the same and any combinations can be used.

It should be noted that in addition to barriers which extend from one or more of the substrates of the droplet actuator the barriers may be formed by one or more depressions in a substrate.

For examples of droplet actuator architectures that are suitable for use with the present invention see U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on Jun. 28 2005 to Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on filed on Jan. 30 2006 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 both to Shenderov et al. Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetic beads and or non magnetic beads are described in the foregoing international patent applications and in Sista et al. U.S. Patent Application Nos. 60 900 653 filed on Feb. 9 2007 entitled Immobilization of magnetically responsive beads during droplet operations Sista et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 60 969 736 filed on Sep. 4 2007 entitled Droplet Actuator Assay Improvements and Allen et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 60 957 717 filed on Aug. 24 2007 entitled Bead washing using physical barriers the entire disclosures of which is incorporated herein by reference.

For examples of fluids that may be subjected to droplet operations using the approach of the invention see the patents listed in section 03 especially International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In some embodiments the fluid that is loaded includes a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic fluid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid seminal fluid vaginal excretion serous fluid synovial fluid pericardial fluid peritoneal fluid pleural fluid transudates exudates cystic fluid bile urine gastric fluid intestinal fluid fecal samples fluidized tissues fluidized organisms biological swabs and biological washes. In some embodiment the fluid that is loaded includes a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. In some embodiments the fluid that includes a reagent such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids. The fluid may be a fluid comprising a nutrient for a biological cell. For example the fluid may be a culture medium or a component of a culture medium. The invention includes conducting one or more droplet operations to bring a culture medium or a fluid comprising a nutrient for a biological cell into contact with a biological cell population e.g. a population that is adhered to one or more beads.

The gap is typically filled with a filler fluid. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil. Other examples of filler fluids are provided in International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006.

This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the present invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Various aspects of each embodiment described here may be interchanged with various aspects of other embodiments. Specific examples dimensions and volumes described herein are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention.

