---

title: Online loan payoff quotes
abstract: A user may select a payoff date for a loan online, and may receive a corresponding loan payoff quote for that date. Additionally, the user may receive a per diem payoff amount. When a user selects a particular payoff date via a website associated with the lender, the loan payoff quote is calculated and provided to the user via the website, text message, or email.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924271&OS=08924271&RS=08924271
owner: United Services Automobile Association
number: 08924271
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20080609
---
In finance a borrower is the party in a loan agreement which receives money from a lender and promises to repay the lender in a specified time referred to as a loan period. A borrower may pay off the loan at any time during the loan period. Typically if the borrower would like to know the amount needed to pay off the loan on a particular date the borrower must telephone the lender and speak with a representative of the lender. The representative requests information from the borrower performs a calculation and provides the borrower with the payoff amount referred to as a loan payoff quote. This is time consuming for the borrower and the representative and is prone to error.

Some lenders provide loan payoff quotes electronically to a borrower e.g. via a website for fixed payoff times such as 10 days or 30 days in the future. However lenders do not provide a loan payoff quote online for a borrower selectable specific number of days. Thus a precise loan payoff quote for a borrower selected payoff date cannot be provided online to a borrower and as a result a borrower often overpays or underpays when paying off a loan on a borrower selected payoff date.

A user may select a payoff date for a loan online and may receive a corresponding loan payoff quote for that date. Additionally the user may receive a per diem payoff amount. When a user selects a particular payoff date via a website associated with the lender the loan payoff quote is calculated and provided to the user via the website text message or email for example.

In an implementation if the interest rate changes after a user had been provided with an online loan payoff quote for a variable rate loan the user may be alerted about the interest rate change and may be presented with a new or revised online loan payoff quote.

In an implementation if the user selected payoff date passes without the user paying off the loan the user may be provided with an advisory that the payoff quote has changed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In an implementation the institution associated with the institution system may have a website such as a financial services website. On the website in a common space the user may be presented with loan information financial advice product recommendations and or information pertaining to their accounts.

The user via the user computing device may request an online loan payoff quote for a particular payoff date from the institution system . The institution system and in particular the payoff amount engine in an implementation may retrieve the appropriate data from storage generate a loan payoff quote for the particular payoff date and provide the loan payoff quote to the user computing device . The user computing device may be a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example or any type of personal computer PC . An example user computing device is described with respect to .

The payoff amount engine may request and receive information from the user about the loan that the user would like a payoff quote for. The user may provide the requested information via the user computing device such as a website text message or email for example. The payoff amount engine may retrieve information from storage such as internal storage and use the information in processing the loan payoff quote request and generating the loan payoff quote for the user selected payoff date. The payoff amount engine may send the loan payoff quote e.g. over a network to the user via the user computing device .

The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over the network . It is contemplated that the network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS and the like.

The payoff amount engine may analyze process and store data pertaining to the user the loan payoff quote request and the generated loan payoff quote. The data may be stored in internal storage or other storage perhaps in storage associated with the institution system such as storage .

The payoff amount engine may include a user interface module an integration and aggregation engine a payoff quote generator and a data source access engine . The user interface module may generate and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to the user computing device as an output from the payoff amount engine . The page s of content may be provided to the user computing device via the website associated with the institution system . In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only by a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The content may be personalized to the user using information retrieved from internal storage or other storage for example. Personalization may include presentation of the page s of content and or functionality of the page s of content . For example a graphical representation displayed on the page s of content may be pre filled with some information pertaining to the user such as name address account number s loan s etc. In an implementation personalization may be directed to loans that the user may be associated with or responsible for and may provide specific information on the user s loans such as amounts due dates etc. for example. Personalization is not limited to loans and may be directed to any type of data information product service advertisement etc.

In an implementation the user may use the user interface module for example to select a loan from which to request a loan payoff quote select a loan payoff date e.g. via an online calendar pull down menu s or data input prompt etc. from which to request a loan payoff quote and provide information requested by the institution system to generate a loan payoff quote for example via the user computing device .

The integration and aggregation engine provides the payoff amount engine the ability to retrieve information from internal storage and any other storage concurrently in an implementation via the data source access engine . The integration and aggregation engine may receive user data loan data rate data etc. from the data source access engine and may provide that information to the payoff quote generator . The payoff quote generator may use tools calculators applications and aggregators for example to analyze the user data the loan data the rate data etc. to generate a loan payoff quote a per diem amount variable loan payoff quotes and interest savings amounts for example described further herein and may output these quotes and or amounts. The quotes and or amounts may be provided via the website text message and or via email to the user for example.

In an implementation one or more quotes and or amounts may be integrated into a single unified presentation which may then be sent to the user interface module for presentation to the user . Through this mechanism the user may quickly see the quotes and or amounts that have been generated for them. Thus in an implementation quotes and or amounts may be provided online e.g. via the website to the user as described further herein.

The user may interface with the system via the website that may display one or more pages of content to the user on the user computing device . A request from the user may be received at the institution system through any suitable means such as interaction with a web browser that is in communication with the payoff amount engine or other computing device within the institution system . The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion. The request may be processed by the payoff amount engine which then provides the user with a response to the request e.g. in the form of one or more quotes and or amounts. Quotes and or amounts may be generated and exported via the website .

The user computing device may provide user access to a system which is coupled to the payoff amount engine and is configured to receive a plurality of user requests at least one of which is a request for a loan payoff quote for a user selected date. A system may be configured to format and transmit a graphical user interface to user and through the graphical user interface provide the user with the ability to interact with and manipulate the data provided by the institution system .

A user access system may be communicatively coupled to the payoff amount engine and may be configured to send machine readable instructions to the payoff amount engine . Those instructions may cause the payoff amount engine to access storage such as internal storage . As mentioned above the payoff amount engine may provide a unified graphical presentation output. The unified graphical presentation may be transmitted to the user access system. In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the user . In an implementation the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which loan payoff quotes may be requested and received. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . A user computing device may allow a user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user may be stored in storage or other storage such as internal storage for example.

Examples of software modules may include modules for identifying and authenticating a user generating web page content for display and receiving requests and instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

At operation the user may select a loan payoff date e.g. pursuant to a request provided via the institution system e.g. via the website . In an implementation the user may select the loan payoff date via an online calendar provided on the website. Alternatively the user may select the loan payoff date by entering the date at an appropriate data input prompt on the website.

At operation the institution system may retrieve data associated with the user and the loan along with any other data that may be used in determining a loan payoff quote per diem amount and or interest savings amount for example. In an implementation the user does not have to provide any information after selecting the loan and the payoff date in order to have an online loan payoff quote generated and provided to them. At operation the institution system may determine the loan payoff quote for the user selected date based on the retrieved data. The loan payoff quote may be provided to the user via the website email text message facsimile telephone etc. at operation . Any known technique for calculating an amount of a loan payoff i.e. a loan payoff quote may be used.

In an implementation a per diem amount may also be determined and provided to the user at operation . This is the amount that the loan is costing the user each day. Additionally or alternatively an amount of interest over the lifetime of the loan that the user may save by paying off the loan on the user selected date may be determined and provided to the user at operation . At operation the institution system may store the data it has received from the user and or the data is has determined or calculated and provided to the user.

Some loans may be variable rate also known as floating rate such that their interest rate varies to reflect market conditions. With these types of loans the interest rate will normally vary with changes to a base rate. In an implementation for a variable rate loan known expected estimated and or potential changes to the interest rate that may occur before the user selected payoff date may be taken into account when determining the loan payoff quote for the user selected date. Such information may be provided to the user for example along with the online loan payoff quote.

In an implementation if the interest rate changes after a user had been provided with an online loan payoff quote for a variable rate loan the user may be alerted about the interest rate change and may be presented with a new or revised online loan payoff quote.

At operation the interest rate on the variable rate loan may change e.g. because the base rate underlying the variable rate loan may change. A notification may be received at the institution system that the interest rate may change. At operation the institution system may determine if the online loan payoff quote and per diem amount that had been provided to the user may change based on or is otherwise affected by the interest rate change. In an implementation the institution system may retrieve the information from storage associated with the quote and the user and compare the rate that the online loan payoff quote and per diem amount were based on with the changed interest rate. The institution system may check to determine if the user has already paid off the loan. The institution system may also check the date of the online loan payoff date that had been user selected to determine if the payoff date had passed prior to the interest rate change.

If the loan is still open i.e. has not been paid off and if the online loan payoff quote and per diem amount that had been provided to the user may change based on the interest rate change at operation the institution system may determine a revised loan payoff quote for the user selected date based on the retrieved data. Any known technique for calculating or determining a loan payoff quote may be used. A revised loan payoff quote may be provided to the user e.g. via the user contact information that may be retrieved from storage at operation . The revised loan payoff quote may be sent to the user via a website link email text message facsimile telephone etc. In an implementation a revised per diem amount may also be determined and provided to the user at operation . The revised loan payoff quote and the revised per diem amount may be stored by the institution system at operation .

If the online loan payoff quote and per diem amount that had been provided to the user does not change based on or is not affected by the interest rate change e.g. because the user selected payoff date has passed because the loan is unaffected by the interest rate change etc. a revised loan payoff quote may not be generated and processing may end at operation . In an implementation at operation if the user selected payoff date has passed the institution system may prepare an advisory regarding the rate change and transmit the advisory to the user along with information as to how the user may request an additional online loan payoff quote.

If the payoff date passes without the user paying the loan off the user may be provided with a reminder advising them that the payoff quote has changed. is an operational flow of an implementation of a method that may be used to provide a user with an advisory regarding an online loan payoff quote. At operation the institution system provides an online loan payoff quote to a user. In an implementation the institution system may provide a per diem amount for the loan to the user.

The institution system may store the online loan payoff quote the per diem amount and other information associated with the user and or the quote in storage at operation . The other information may include user contact information such as email address text message address telephone number facsimile number etc. and may include the user selected payoff date that the online loan payoff quote and per diem amount were based on.

At operation after the user selected payoff date for which the online loan payoff quote was provided passes the institution system may determine if the loan has been paid off. Such a determination may be made based on the information associated with the user and or quote that had been stored and may be subsequently retrieved.

Assuming the loan is still open i.e. has not been paid off at operation the institution system may prepare an advisory regarding online loan payoff quote that had been previously provided to the user and transmit the advisory to the user using retrieved user contact information at operation . The advisory may comprise a reminder about the outstanding loan and the previously provided online loan payoff quote and may note that the previously provided online loan payoff quote has expired and is no longer accurate. The advisory may tell the user that the loan payoff quote has changed and may comprise information as to how the user may request a revised online loan payoff quote for another user selected payoff date. In an implementation the information provided to the user may contain a link to a website that may generate an online loan payoff quote for a user selected payoff date.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

